Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Corporate information prohibited for property, plant and equipment and may only be used in very limited circumstances to amortise intangible assets.
Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales company number IAS 27 amended Separate Financial Statements, Equity 02280426.
The address of the registered office is Churchill Method in Separate Financial Statements the amendments Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR11DP, England.
allow an entity to use the equity method for its investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in its separate 1.
Basis of preparation As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle these improvements EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements are include: prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB as adopted by the EU.
The Companys financial statements have IFRS 5 amended Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and been prepared in accordance with and full compliance with Discontinued Operations assets are generally disposed of IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
either through sale or through a distribution to owners.
The amendment clarifies that changing from one disposal method The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the to another is a continuation of the original plan of disposal.
historical cost basis except for AFS financial assets, investment property and derivative financial instruments, which are IFRS 7 amended Financial Instruments: Disclosures measured at fair value.
provides additional guidance to clarify whether a servicing contract that includes a fee can constitute continuing The Companys financial statements and the consolidated involvement in a financial asset for the purpose of the financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the disclosures required in relation to transferred assets.
functional currency of the Company.
IAS 19 amended Employee Benefits a further amendment The International segment was classified as a discontinued has been made to IAS 19 to clarify that the high quality operation until disposed of in 2015. corporate bonds used to estimate the discount rate for postemployment benefits should be issued in the same currency Adoption of new and revised standards as the benefits to be paid.
The Group has adopted the following new amendments to IFRSs and the IASs that became effective for the Group for 1.1 Basis of consolidation the first time during 2016, however these have had no impact The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial on the consolidated financial statements, performance and statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled or disclosure.
by the Group at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 and has the ability to affect those returns through its power Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Investment over the entity.
In assessing if the Group controls another entity, Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception the the existence and effect of the potential voting rights that are amendments address issues that have arisen in applying currently exercisable or convertible are considered.
the investment entities exception under IFRS 10.
Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the IFRS 11 amended Joint Arrangements Accounting for financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations the amendments policies used into line with those used by the Group.
require an entity to apply the principles of IFRS 3 Business The policies set out below have been applied consistently Combinations when it acquires an interest in a joint operation throughout the years ended 31 December 2016 and which constitutes a business as defined by IFRS 3.
31 December 2015 to items considered material to the consolidated financial statements.
IAS 1 amended Presentation of Financial Statements Disclosure Initiative the amendments are intended to assist A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial entities in applying judgement when meeting the presentation statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until and disclosure requirements in IFRS, providing clarity to the the date the Group ceases to control it.
On acquisition of materiality requirement in IAS 1, that specific line items in a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent the income statement, other comprehensive income and liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements balance sheet may be disaggregated.
The amendments clarify at fair value.
that an entitys share of the other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures accounted using the equity All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses method should be presented separately from those arising between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
The amendment also addresses that entities have flexibility as to the order in which they present the notes 1.2 Foreign currencies to the financial statements.
The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the presentational currency of the Group.
IAS 16 amended Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Group entities record transactions in the currency of the amended Intangible Assets Classification of Acceptable primary economic environment in which they operate their Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation the amendments functional currency, translated at the foreign exchange rate state that revenue-based amortisation models are explicitly ruling at the date of the transaction.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Investment return Interest income on financial assets is determined using the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method are translated into the relevant functional currency at the foreign is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign or group of financial assets and of allocating the interest exchange differences arising on the settlement of foreign currency income over the expected life of the asset.
transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are reported in the income statement.
Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are the contract.
Any gains or losses arising from a change in stated at fair value are translated into the relevant functional fair value are recognised in the income statement.
currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the values are determined.
Translation differences arising on nonInstalment income monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in the Instalment income comprises the interest income earned on income statement except for differences arising on AFS nonpolicyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums are settled monetary financial assets, which are recognised in other by a series of instalment payments.
Interest is earned using comprehensive income.
an effective interest rate method over the term of the policy.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill Other operating income and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated Vehicle replacement referral income into Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance Vehicle replacement referral income comprises fees in respect sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are of referral income received when a customer or a non-fault translated into Sterling at average exchange rates unless these policyholder claimant of another insurer has been provided do not approximate the foreign exchange rates ruling at the with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in the Income is recognised immediately when the customer or consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amount claimant is provided with the hire vehicle.
accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to the consolidated income statement on disposal or partial disposal Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services of a foreign operation.
Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision 1.3 Contract classification of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred the insurer has accepted significant insurance risk from as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed and another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate always determinable.
the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event the insured event adversely affects the policyholder.
The Groups income also comprises vehicle repair services provided to other third-party customers.
Income in respect Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, service.
The price is determined using market rates for the even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this services and materials used after discounts have been period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished.
1.4 Revenue recognition Other income Premiums earned Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total when a policy has been placed and incepted.
Income is premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided stated excluding applicable sales taxes.
by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion Legal services revenue represents the amount charged to clients of the premiums incepted in the year or prior periods that relate for professional services provided during the year including to periods of insurance cover after the balance sheet date.
recovery of expenses but excluding value added tax.
Revenue Unearned premiums are calculated over the period of exposure is only recognised once services have been provided and under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for certainty exists as to the outcome of the respective cases.
the estimated incidence of exposure under policies.
1.5 Insurance claims Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties, Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full cost of underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including premiums.
Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any and subrogation recoveries.
Outstanding claims provisions are commission payable to intermediaries or other parties.
not discounted for the time value of money except for claims to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003.
Cash back payments to policyholders under motor telematics A court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in policies represent a reduction in earned premiums.
respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly or partly to take the form of PPOs.
These are covered in more 128 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 128 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements detail in note 2.1.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of handling expenses are also included.
reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance asset may not be collected or where the reinsurers credit rating Provisions are determined by management based on has been downgraded significantly and this is taken as an experience of claims settled and on statistical models which indication of a reinsurers difficulty in meeting its obligations require certain assumptions to be made regarding the under the reinsurance contracts.
This also includes an incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions factors such as adverse weather conditions.
When calculating to reflect the counterparty default risk exposure to long-term the total provision required, the historical development of reinsurance assets particularly in relation to periodical claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, payments.
Increases in this provision affect the Group by within acceptable probability parameters, the value of reducing the carrying value of the asset and the impairment outstanding claims gross and net at the balance sheet date.
loss is recognised in the income statement.
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation.
1.7 Deferred acquisition costs Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance policies Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques that are matched with the earning of the premiums to which they incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims cost relate.
A proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year adjusted for inflation and frequency methods.
As claims is therefore deferred to the subsequent accounting period to mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods match the extent to which premiums written during the year are based on actual claims experience.
The approach adopted unearned at the balance sheet date.
takes into account the nature, type and significance of the business and the type of data available, with large claims The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising generally being assessed separately.
The data used for expenditure, directly attributable administration costs, statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and commission paid and costs associated with telesales and reconciled to the accounting data.
The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of 1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets the ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value handling costs.
Actual claims experience may differ from the of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities historical pattern on which the actuarial best estimate is based of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any assumed.
As a result, the Group sets provisions at a margin accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the above the actuarial best estimate.
This amount is recorded acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is within claims provisions.
included in the balance sheet category goodwill and other intangible assets.
The gain or loss on the disposal of a A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the carrying arising where the expected value of claims and expenses value of any related goodwill.
attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
costs deferred and other prepaid amounts for example, Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the reinsurance.
The expected value is determined by reference assets economic lives using methods that best reflect the to recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium pattern of economic benefits and is included in operating rates.
The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately expenses.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: by reference to classes of business that are managed together Software development costs Up to 10 years after taking account of relevant investment returns.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is 1.6 Reinsurance written off as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance of internal-use computer software and associated business contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal economic viability have been established.
These costs include course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits payroll costs, the costs of materials and services and directly varying by product line.
Outward reinsurance premiums are attributable overheads.
Capitalisation of costs ceases when the generally accounted for in the same accounting period as software is capable of operating as intended.
During and after the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured.
development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same against the projected benefits that the software is expected to accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred, Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance as are all training costs and general overheads.
companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the 1.9 Property, plant and equipment outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with Items of property, plant and equipment except investment the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant property note 1.11 are stated at cost less accumulated reinsurance contract.
Recoveries in respect of PPOs are depreciation and impairment losses.
Where an item of discounted for the time value of money.
com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Investment property is derecognised when it has been either disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future property, plant and equipment comprises major components economic benefit is expected from disposal.
Any gains or having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straightare recognised in the income statement in the year of line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount of property, retirement or disposal.
plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives.
The 1.12 Financial assets depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
Financial assets are classified as AFS, held-to-maturity HTM, Land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans Freehold and leasehold 50 years or the period and receivables.
buildings of the lease if shorter Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery Vehicles 3 years of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place are recognised on the date Computer equipment Up to 5 years that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Other equipment, including 2 to 15 years AFS property adaptation costs Financial assets can be designated as AFS on initial recognition.
AFS financial assets are initially recognised at fair value The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference measured at fair value.
Impairment losses and exchange between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying differences resulting from translating the amortised cost of foreign amount of the item.
currency monetary AFS financial assets are recognised in the income statement, together with interest calculated using the 1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, effective interest rate method.
Other changes in the fair value plant and equipment of AFS financial assets are reported in a separate component At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is of shareholders equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, or loss is recognised in the income statement.
plant and equipment are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market asset and the impairment loss, if any.
Goodwill is tested for if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If an asset regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and does not generate cash flows that are independent of those regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount basis.
The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held is determined for the cash-generating unit CGU to which is usually the current bid price.
When current bid prices are the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not been Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the a significant change in economic circumstances since the time asset or CGU, discounted at a rate that reflects market interest of the transaction.
If conditions have changed since the time of rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or CGU that have the transaction for example, a change in the risk-free interest not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows.
rate following the most recent price quote for a corporate bond, the fair value reflects the change in conditions by If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset reference to current prices or rates for similar financial is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised instruments, as appropriate.
The valuation methodology immediately in the income statement and the carrying value of described above uses observable market data.
the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss.
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique.
property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises Valuation techniques include using recent arms length market provided the increased carrying value does not exceed the transactions between knowledgeable and willing parties carrying amount that would have been determined had no if available, reference to the current fair value of another impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment losses on instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow goodwill are not reversed.
analysis and option pricing models.
If there is a valuation 1.11 Investment property technique commonly used by market participants to price Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market appreciation or both.
Investment property is not depreciated, transactions, the Group uses that technique.
but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent HTM registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for Non-derivative financial assets not designated as AFS or loans similar properties adjusted for the specific characteristics of and receivables with fixed or determinable payments and fixed each property.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair maturity where the intention and ability to hold them to maturity value is recognised in the income statement.
exists are classified as HTM.
130 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 130 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Subsequent to initial recognition, HTM financial assets are For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate calculated based upon prior loss experience.
For all balances method less any impairment losses.
outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt provision is made.
Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, the Loans and receivables outstanding debt that is overdue is charged to the income Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable statement and the bad debt provision is released back to the repayments that are not quoted in an active market are income statement.
classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as AFS or HTM.
Loans and receivables are initially Derivatives and hedging recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values effective interest rate method less any impairment losses.
are determined from quoted prices in active markets where available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, Impairment of financial assets fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components Insurance receivables using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a group of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement and receivables is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred hedge.
The Group enters into fair value hedge relationships if there is objective evidence that an event or events since and a small amount of cash flow hedges.
initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected the Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging AFS instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during as AFS has been recognised directly in equity and there is the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly effective objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative in offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values attributable loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk statement.
The loss is measured as the difference between the management strategy, or if the hedging instrument expires or is amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or through profit or loss, but those on AFS debt instruments are loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging HTM and loans and receivables instrument is recognised in the income statement.
The gain If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is financial asset or group of financial assets classified as HTM or recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the hedged item.
amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, Derecognition of financial assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive initial recognition.
the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and 1.13 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the liquid investments that are readily convertible to known impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously in value.
recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts, are measured Insurance receivables at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance premiums where the policyholders have elected to pay in instalments, or 1.14 Financial liabilities amounts due from third parties where they have collected or are Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net of due to collect the money from the policyholder.
Other than derivatives which are recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial Receivables also include amounts due in respect of the liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using provision of legal services.
the effective interest rate method.
com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued 1.19 Taxation The tax charge or credit represents the sum of the tax currently A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under payable or receivable and deferred tax.
the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
The current tax charge is based on the taxable profits for the 1.15 Subordinated liabilities year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated guaranteed legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
dated notes which are initially measured at the consideration Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income received less related transaction costs.
Subsequently, statement because it excludes items of income or expense that subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost using are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes the effective interest rate method.
items that are never taxable or deductible.
1.16 Provisions Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to charged or credited to components of other comprehensive settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
income and equity, as appropriate.
The Group makes provision for all insurance industry levies, Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and sheet liability method on all temporary differences between the Motor Insurance Bureau.
carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting purposes When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
the present obligation under the contract as a provision.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of meeting temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are the contractual obligations exceed the expected future recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits economic benefit.
In respect of leasehold properties, a will be available against which deductible temporary provision is recognised when the Group has a detailed formal differences can be utilised.
plan to vacate the leasehold property, or significantly reduce its level of occupancy, the plan has been communicated to Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date those affected and the future property costs under the lease and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not exceed future economic benefits.
Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
expected to apply when the assets are realised or liabilities An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal are settled based on laws and rates that have been enacted or plan and has communicated the plan to those affected.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when 1.17 Leases it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive Payments made under operating leases are charged to income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term with in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a 1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension to settle its current assets and liabilities on a net basis.
scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable.
1.20 Share-based payments The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as described in The Group operates a number of share-based compensation note 34, was closed in 2003.
Scheme liabilities are measured plans under which it awards Ordinary Shares and share on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method, options to its employees.
Such awards are generally subject and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return to vesting conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and to which an employee is entitled.
currency to the scheme liabilities.
Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring the Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus employee to complete a specified period of service and or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in performance conditions requiring the Group to meet specified the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
The current service cost and any past service costs, together The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation with the net interest on net pension liability or asset, is charged techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free or credited to operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility.
are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside the income statement and presented in other comprehensive income under Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement.
132 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 132 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The cost of employee services received in exchange for an In September 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 4 award of shares or share options granted is measured by to address issues arising from the different effective dates of reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the IFRS 9 and the upcoming new insurance contracts standard date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting IFRS 17.
The amendment to IFRS 4 is expected to be conditions and market performance conditions conditions endorsed by the EU before the effective date of IFRS 9. related to the market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
The amendments introduce two alternative options, the overlay The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting approach and the temporary exemption from IFRS 9.
The period the period during which all the specified vesting overlay approach allows an entity applying IFRS 9 to reclassify conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase in between the income statement and other comprehensive income equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability an amount that results in the income statement at the end of the in a cash-settled award.
The cost is adjusted for vesting reporting period for the designated financial assets being the conditions other than market performance conditions so as to same as if an entity had applied IAS 39 Financial Instruments reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest.
Recognition and Measurement to these designated financial assets.
The temporary exemption from IFRS 9 allows entities The cancellation of an award through failure to meet nonto defer the implementation date of IFRS 9 for annual periods vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense for any beginning before 1 January 2021, if it has not applied any unrecognised element of the cost of an award.
version of IFRS 9 previously and its activities are predominantly connected with insurance on its annual reporting date that 1.21 Capital instruments immediately precedes 1 April 2016.
The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with During 2016 the Group performed an assessment of the the substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is temporary exemption from IFRS 9 criteria and concluded classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver that the carrying amount of its liabilities connected with cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets insurance relative to the carrying amount of all its liabilities or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as as at 31 December 2015 is greater than 90% and therefore equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the satisfies the exemption criteria.
Group after the deduction of liabilities.
In May 2014 the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from The consideration for any Ordinary Share of the Company Contracts with Customers to establish a single comprehensive purchased by the Group for the benefit of the employee trusts model to use in accounting for revenue recognition and is deducted from equity.
The standard provides guidance on when and how combined contracts should be unbundled and when a 1.22 Dividends contract price includes a variable consideration element.
Interim dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised in IFRS 15 was endorsed by the EU in 2016 and either a full equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends retrospective application or a modified retrospective application on Ordinary Shares are recognised when they have been is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January approved at the AGM.
The Group expects to apply IFRS 15 fully retrospectively.
Insurance contracts are out of the scope of IFRS 15 and therefore 1.23 Accounting developments the Group does not expect the impact on other operating New IFRSs and amendments that are issued, but not yet income to be material.
effective for the 31 December 2016 reporting periods and have not been early adopted by the Group are disclosed In January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases to replace below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if the existing standard IAS 17, which subject to endorsement applicable, when they become effective, except for IFRS 9 from the EU will be effective from 1 January 2019.
sets out the principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 account for all leases under a single on-balance sheet model Financial Instruments that replaces IAS 39 Financial similar to the accounting for finance leases under IAS 17.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous There are two exemptions for leases of a low value and for versions of IFRS 9 which was endorsed by the EU in 2016. leases of short-term nature of 12 months or less.
At the start IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and of a lease, a lessee will recognise a liability for the lease derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, payments and an asset representing the right to use the asset introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new during the lease term.
Lessees will be required to separately impairment model for financial assets and is effective for recognise the interest expense on the lease liability and the annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset.
Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially unchanged from In 2016 the Group conducted a high-level assessment of the current approach under IAS 17. the three aspects of IFRS 9 and based on current available information expects no significant impact on its balance sheet In 2017, the Group will assess the potential effect of IFRS 16 and equity, except for the impact of applying the expected loss on its consolidated financial statements, the undiscounted value model for the first time and this impact is currently immaterial.
of the Groups lease obligations are disclosed in note 39.
The Group plans to defer the application of IFRS 9 until the effective date of the new insurance contracts standard IFRS 17 of 1 January 2021, applying the temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 as introduced by the amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, detailed below.
com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The following amendments to IFRSs and IASs have been issued during 2016 that are expected to be endorsed by the EU during 2017.
The Group does not expect the amendments to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
The IASB amended IAS 12 Income Taxes Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses to clarify the accounting for deferred tax assets where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the assets tax base for accounting: the amendment is effective from 1 January 2017.
Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows was issued as part of the IASBs Disclosure Initiative to require entities to explain changes in their liabilities arising from financing activities: the amendment is effective from 1 January 2017.
The IASB amended IFRS 2 Share-based Payments Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions, to address three main areas: the effects of vesting conditions on the measurement of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction: the classification of a share-based payment transaction with net settlement features for withholding tax obligations: and accounting where a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment transaction changes its classification from cash-settled to equity-settled: the amendments are effective from 1 January 2018.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial information.
The Groups principal accounting policies are set out on pages 127 to 134.
Company law and IFRSs require the Directors, in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8, Accounting policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, requires management to develop and apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
2.1 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding claims from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling.
Outstanding claims provisions net of related reinsurance recoveries at 31 December 2016 amounted to 3,388.3 million 2015: 3,602.6 million.
Claims reserves are assessed separately for large and attritional claims, typically using standard actuarial methods of projection.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty include those arising from the selection of specific methods as well as assumptions for claims frequency and severity through the review of historical claims and emerging trends.
The corresponding reinsurance recoveries and impairment provision are calculated on an equivalent basis, with similar estimation uncertainty, as discussed in note 1.6.
The reinsurance bad debt provision is mainly for expected recoveries against future PPO payments.
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by a lump sum paid to the claimant and, in the cases where this includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement normally occurs using a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a discount rate of 2.5% in 2016 2015: 2.5%.
This is normally referred to as the Ogden discount rate.
Other estimates are also required for case management expenses, loss of pension, court protection fees, alterations to accommodation and transportation fees.
On 27 February 2017, the Ministry of Justice announced a new Ogden discount rate of minus 0.75% to become effective from 20 March 2017 and a review of the framework under which the rate is set with consultation to start before Easter 2017.
The Group expects to fully participate in this consultation.
The Group will continue to exercise judgement around the Ogden rate used in its reserves allowing for the possibility for it to change in the future.
The Lord Chancellors statement bases the choice of the rate on a 3-year average of yields on index-linked government securities which will be sensitive to future movements in these instruments.
It is not yet clear how often the Lord Chancellor plans to review the rate and the coming consultation is proposed to look at the wider framework for setting the rate and compensation.
The Group considers the risks to the rate in future as being significant but broadly balanced and therefore provisions at the current proposed rate of minus 0.75% with no additional allowance for further movements.
Details of the sensitivity analysis to the assumed Ogden discount rate are shown in note 3.3.
The Group settles some large bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments.
134 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 134 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The table below analyses the outstanding PPO claims provisions on a discounted and an undiscounted basis at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement.
Discounted Undiscounted Discounted Undiscounted 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m At 31 December Gross claims Approved PPO claims provisions 489.0 1,388.0 452.3 1,315.7 Anticipated PPOs 494.0 1,509.9 538.3 1,660.8 Total 983.0 2,897.9 990.6 2,976.5 Reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 248.6 754.4 231.1 721.5 Anticipated PPOs 263.1 875.4 227.8 818.4 Total 511.7 1,629.8 458.9 1,539.9 Net of reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 240.4 633.6 221.2 594.2 Anticipated PPOs 230.9 634.5 310.5 842.4 Total 471.3 1,268.1 531.7 1,436.6 The provisions for PPOs have been categorised as either claims which have already been determined by the courts as PPOs approved PPO claims provisions or those expected to settle as PPOs in the future anticipated PPOs.
The Group is subject to estimation uncertainty on the propensity of large bodily claims to move from Ogden settled values to PPOs.
The recent change in the Ogden discount rate is expected to reduce PPO propensity and these effects are recognised in the Groups separate Ogden provisions.
The estimates in the table above are based on historically observed propensity and therefore do not allow for any future changes in PPO propensity.
Anticipated PPOs consist of both existing large loss case reserves including allowances for development and claims yet to be reported to the Group.
Reinsurance is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money.
The discount rate is consistent with the long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments.
In the majority of cases, the inflation agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings SOC 6115 inflation published by the Office for National Statistics, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% 2015: 4.0%.
The rate of interest used for the calculation of present values is 4.0% 2015: 4.0%, which results in a real discount rate of 0.0% 2015: 0.0%.
Prior to 20 March 2017 lump sum payments were calculated using a real discount rate of 2.5% 2015: 2.5% meaning that the PPOs reserved cost was greater than that of lump sum settlements.
This will reverse when the new discount rate of minus 0.75% becomes effective.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.
2.2 Impairment provisions financial assets The Group determines that financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
The determination of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
Impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors.
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired based on the following criteria: actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal: adverse movements in the credit rating for the investee borrower: or price performance of a particular AFS debt security, or group of AFS debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared to the market as a whole.
There was no impairment of the Groups financial assets in the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
Had all the declines in AFS asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2016, the Group would suffer a loss of 12.6 million 2015: 48.7 million, being the transfer of the total AFS reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement.
These movements represent mark-to-market movements and where there is no objective evidence of any loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements.
com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 2.3 Fair value The Group has made the judgement that level 1 of the Groups fair value hierarchy set out in note 40 will include only sovereign debt securities issued by members of the G1O group of countries within the Groups AFS debt securities portfolio, with all other financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value included in level 2 as they are not considered to be quoted in a deeply liquid market.
The Group has also made the judgement that investment properties fall within level 3 of the Groups fair value hierarchy note 40 as the valuation model is driven predominantly by unobservable inputs, as although in part the valuations are compared to recent market transactions, they are adjusted for specific characteristics of each property including the size, location and condition by reference to the benchmark property transactions.
2.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill impairment testing inherently involves estimation uncertainty in a number of areas including: the preparation of the five-year strategic plan and the extrapolation of cash flow forecasts beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the CGUs: estimation of market values of CGUs: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Details of a sensitivity analysis on the recoverable amount in excess of carrying value are shown in note 18.
Impairment testing of software development costs involves estimation uncertainty in a number of areas including: the projection of the economic benefits associated with each asset: subsequent re-measurement of these benefits through the development cycle and into use: and the projected ultimate cost of each asset at each point through the development cycle due to specification changes.
Risk management 3.1 Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework The ERMF sets out, at a high level, our approach and processes for managing risks.
Further information can be found in the Risk management section of the Strategic report on page 27.
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group carries out detailed modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed.
This modelling includes the Groups own assessment of its SCR.
In 2015, this SCR assessment was submitted to the PRA as part of the Groups application for IMAP for which approval was subsequently granted in June 2016.
The SCR quantifies the insurance, market, credit and operational risks that the regulated entities are undertaking.
The Board is closely involved in the SCR process and reviews, challenges and approves its assumptions and results.
3.3 Principal risks from insurance activities and use of financial instruments The Risk management section of the Strategic report sets out all the risks assessed by the Group as principal risks.
Detailed below is the Groups risk exposure arising from its insurance activities and use of financial instruments specifically in respect of insurance risk, market risk and credit risk.
1 Insurance risk The Group is exposed to insurance risk as a primary consequence of its business.
Key insurance risks focus on the risk of loss due to fluctuations in the timings, amount, frequency and severity of an insured event relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following Insurance risks: Reserve risk Reserve risk relates to both premiums and claims.
This is the risk of understatement of reserves arising from: the uncertain nature of claims: data issues and changes to the claims reporting process: operational failures: failure to recognise claims trends in the market: and changes in underwriting and business written so that past trends are not necessarily a predictor of the future.
Understatement of reserves may result in not being able to pay claims when they fall due.
Alternatively, overstatement of reserves can lead to a surplus of funds being retained resulting in opportunity cost for example lost investment return or insufficient resource to pursue strategic projects and develop the business.
Reserve risk is controlled through a range of processes: regular reviews of the claims, premiums and an assessment of the requirement for a liability adequacy provision for the main classes of business by the internal actuarial team: 136 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 136 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer review or through provision of independent reserve estimates: accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including bootstrapping and scenario analysis: oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board: regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews: and regular assessment of the uncertainty in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves.
The Groups reserves are subject to the risk of retrospective changes in judicial conditions such as the change in the Ogden discount rate announced on the 27 February 2017.
This is the discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor and used by courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
The rate has been 2.5% since 2001 and will change to minus 0.75% from 20 March 2017.
The Group has calculated its estimated reserves based on the new rate which itself is uncertain depending on the outcome of the Governments proposed consultation on the framework for setting the rate and on the frequency and timing of future changes.
Uncertainty in claims reserves estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made typically over the lifetime of the injured party.
Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and are sensitive to a change in the assumed real discount rate.
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease in profit 3 before tax and equity 2016 2015 At 31 December m m 1 PPOs Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points 68.2 76.0 Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points 97.9 109.4 2 Ogden as at 31 December 2016 Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of 0% compared to minus 0.75% at 31 December 2016 102.1 Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of minus 1.5% compared to minus 0.75% at 31 December 2016 156.4 Ogden as at 31 December 2015 Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of 2.5% compared to 1.5% at 31 December 2015 131.9 Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of 0.5% compared to 1.5% at 31 December 2015 190.0 Notes: 1.
The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the real discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level of 0.0%.
As at 31 December 2016 the Group has reserved at a discount rate of minus 0.75% 2015: 1.5%.
With effect from 20 March 2017, the Ogden discount rate will be minus 0.75% 2015: 2.5%.
These sensitivities exclude the impact of taxation.
These sensitivities reflect one-off impacts at 31 December and should not be interpreted as a prediction.
In addition, there is the risk that claims are reserved or paid inappropriately, including the timing of such activity.
However, there are claims management controls in place to mitigate this risk, as outlined below: Claims are managed utilising a range of IT system-driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner.
Each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims.
In addition, there are various outsourced claims handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the controls and procedures.
Loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion.
This involves liaison with the policyholder, third parties, suppliers and the claims function.
Specialist bodily injury claims teams are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling dependent on the level and type of claim.
Claims exceeding a certain threshold are referred to the technical and large loss teams who also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria.
com 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued A process is in place to deal with major weather and other catastrophic events, known as the Surge Demand Plan.
A surge is the collective name given to an incident which significantly increases the volume of claims reported to the Groups claims functions.
The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and management information monitoring of the plan.
Underwriting risk This is the risk that future claims experience on business written is materially different from the results expected, resulting in current year losses.
The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including motor, residential property, roadside assistance, creditor, travel and pet business.
The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within the SME market.
Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis which means that the Groups liability usually extends for a 12 month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the premium or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate.
Underwriting risk includes catastrophe risk, the risk of loss, or of adverse change in the value of the insurance liabilities resulting from significant uncertainty of pricing, underwriting and provisioning assumptions related to extreme or exceptional circumstances.
When underwriting policies, the Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: Geographic concentration risk the Group purchases a catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled one in 200-year loss.
The retained deductible is 150 million at 31 December 2016 2015: 150 million : Product concentration risk the Groups business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market.
However, the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels to its customers: and Sector concentration risk the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect of commercial customers.
It is important to note that none of these risk categories is independent of the others and that giving due consideration to the relationship between these risks is an important aspect of the effective management of insurance risk.
Distribution risk This is the risk that material change in the volume of policies written, may result in losses or reduced profitability.
Pricing risk This is the risk of economic loss arising from policies being incorrectly priced or accepted to achieve desired volume and profitability.
Reinsurance risk This is the risk of inappropriate selection and or placement of a reinsurance arrangement, with either individual or multiple reinsurers which renders the transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer s inappropriate and or ineffective.
Other risks include: Reinsurance concentration risk the concentration credit exposure to any given counterparty: Reinsurance capacity being reduced and or withdrawn: Underwriting risk appetite and reinsurance contract terms not being aligned: Reinsurance contract terms being inappropriate or ineffective resulting in classes or types of business not being appropriately reinsured: Non-adherence to the reinsurance policy terms and conditions, in terms of both policy management and claims not being handled within the reinsurance contract terms and conditions or paid on an ex-gratia basis resulting in reinsurance recoveries not being made in full: Inappropriate or inaccurate management information and or modelling being used to determine the value for money and purchasing of reinsurance including aggregate modelling : and Changes in the external legal, regulatory, social or economic environment altering the definition and application of reinsurance policy wordings or the effectiveness or value for money of reinsurance.
The Group uses reinsurance to: protect the underwriting result against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility to reinsurers: protect the underwriting result against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims in order to reduce volatility and to improve stability of earnings: reduce the Groups capital requirements: and or transfer risk that is not within the Groups current risk appetite.
138 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 138 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Using reinsurance, the Group cedes insurance risk to reinsurers but, in return, assumes counterparty default risk against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
The financial security of the Groups panel of reinsurers is therefore important and both the quality and amount of the assumed counterparty default risk are subject to an approval process whereby reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least Aat the time cover is purchased.
The Groups leading counterparty exposures are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Head of Reinsurance and Corporate Insurance.
The Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and or non-payment risks associated with its reinsurance exposures.
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of bodily injury and PPO claims, and insurance reserves therefore include provisions beyond the levels created for shorter-term reinsurance bad debt.
2 Market risk Market risk is the risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the level and in the volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities and financial instruments.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: Spread risk: Interest rate risk: Property risk: and Foreign currency risk.
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Investment Committee for managing the market risk exposure.
These set out the principles that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept having considered strategy, risk appetite and capital resources.
The Group monitors its market risk exposure on a monthly basis and has established an aggregate exposure limit consistent with its risk objective to maintain capital adequacy.
Interdependencies across risk types have also been considered within the aggregate exposure limit.
The allocation of the Groups investments across asset classes has been approved at the Investment Committee.
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is reviewed by the Investment Committee, which makes recommendations to the Board for its investment strategy approval.
The Investment Committee determines policy and controls, covering such areas as risk, liquidity and performance.
The Investment Committee meets at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it.
Oversight of the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is via the 1st and 2nd Lines of Defence.
The investment management objectives are to: Maintain the safety of the portfolios principal both in economic terms and from a capital, accounting and reporting perspective: Maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations, including in the event of a catastrophe: and Maximise the portfolios total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment guidelines and capital allocation.
The Group has a property portfolio and an infrastructure debt portfolio in order to improve matching to the longer duration PPOs.
The Group uses its internal economic capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its market risk exposure based on a 99.5% value-at-risk measure.
The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for the economic impact of specific severe market conditions.
The results of this analysis are used to enhance the understanding of market risk.
The asset liability matching and investment management minimum standard explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative or gearing purposes.
However, the Group is able to and does use derivatives for hedging its currency risk and interest rate risk exposures.
Spread risk This is the risk of loss from the sensitivity of the value of assets and investments to changes in the level or in the volatility of credit spreads over the risk-free interest rate term structure.
The level of spread is the difference between the risk-free rate and actual rate paid on the asset, with larger spreads being associated with higher risk assets.
The Group is exposed to spread risk through its investments in bonds.
Interest rate risk This is the risk of loss from all assets and liabilities for which the net asset value is sensitive to changes in the term structure of interest rates or interest rate volatility.
The Groups interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments and assets and liabilities exposed to fixed interest rates.
The fixed interest rate up to 27 April 2022 on the Groups 30-year maturity 500 million of subordinated guaranteed dated notes has been exchanged for a floating rate of interest note 31. www.
com 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The Group also invests in floating rate debt securities, whose investment income is influenced by the movement of the short-term interest rate.
A movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on these investments.
The market value of the Groups financial investments with fixed coupons is affected by the movement of interest rates.
For the majority of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, excluding 432.0 million of short duration high yield bonds 2015: 336.9 million, the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps.
These derivatives reduce the duration of the portfolio to close to zero.
Property risk This is the risk of loss as a result of sensitivity of assets and financial investment to the level or volatility of market prices of property.
At 31 December 2016, the value of these property investments was 329.0 million 2015: 347.4 million.
The property investments are located in the UK.
Foreign currency risk The exposure to currency risk is generated by the Groups investments in US Dollar and Euro denominated corporate bonds.
The Group maintains exposure to US Dollar securities through 2,107.1 million 2015: 1,876.3 million of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and Euro securities through 91.8 million 2015: nil of Euro corporate bonds.
The foreign currency exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts, maintaining a minimal unhedged currency exposure on these portfolios, as well as a low basis currency risk on the hedging.
Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease 5 Increase decrease in total equity at in profit before tax 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Spread Impact of a 100 basis points increase in spreads on financial 1,2, 4. investments 183.1 183.5 Interest rate Impact of a 100 basis points increase in interest rates on financial 1,2, 3,4. investments and derivatives 21.5 22.1 101.5 119.9 Investment property Impact of a 15% decrease in property markets 49.4 52.1 49.4 52.1 Notes: 1.
The income statement impact on financial investments is limited to floating rate instruments and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate instruments, in particular AFS debt securities, where the coupon return is not impacted by a change in prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through the income statement with fair value movements being recognised through total equity.
The increase or decrease in total equity does not reflect any fair value movement in infrastructure debt, HTM debt securities and commercial real estate loans that would not be recorded in the financial statements under IFRSs as they are classified as loans and receivables and HTM respectively, which are carried at amortised cost.
It is estimated that a fair value reduction in these asset categories resulting from a 100 basis point increase in spreads would have been 34.4 million 2015: 29.5 million and a 100 basis point increase in interest rate would have been 4.8 million 2015:0.1 million.
The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on financial investments and derivatives, which projects a movement in a full years interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to these assets or liabilities on those positions held at 31 December.
The subordinated liabilities and associated interest rate swap are excluded from the sensitivity analysis.
The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Groups insurance liabilities or retirement benefit obligations.
They reflect one off impacts at 31 December and should not be interpreted as a prediction.
140 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 140 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group has a number of open interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions.
Collateral management arrangements are in place for significant counterparty exposures.
At 31 December 2016, the Group has pledged 23.7 million in cash 2015: 12.3 million and 3.4 million in UK Treasury Bills 2015: nil to cover initial margins and out-of-the-money derivative positions.
At 31 December 2016, counterparties have pledged 19.1 million in cash and 39.4 million in UK Gilts 2015: 19.7 million in UK Gilts to the Group to cover in-the-money derivative positions.
The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard.
When securities are pledged they are required to be readily convertible to cash, and as such no policy has been established for the disposal of assets not readily convertible into cash.
3 Credit risk This is the risk of loss resulting from default on cash inflows and or changes in market value of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors to which the Group is exposed.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following credit risk factors: Counterparty default risk: and Concentration risk.
Counterparty default risk This is the risk of loss from unexpected default of the counterparties and debtors of Group undertakings.
This risk is primarily managed by the 1st Line of Defence and monitored by three forums: the Investment risk forum monitors credit spreads as indicators of potential losses on investments incurred but not yet realised, the Credit risk forum monitors reinsurance and corporate insurance counterparty default risk: and the NIG credit committee is responsible for monitoring broker credit risk.
The main responsibility of these fora is to ensure that all material aspects of counterparty default risk within the Group are identified, monitored and measured.
The main sources of counterparty default risk for the Group are: Investments this arises from the investment of funds in a range of investment vehicles permitted by the investment policy: and Reinsurance recoveries counterparty exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and, by their very nature, to significantly increase the length of time to reach final payment.
This can increase reinsurance counterparty default risk in terms of both amount and longevity.
com 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The following tables analyse the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear counterparty default risk between those assets that have not been impaired by age in relation to due date, and those that have been impaired.
Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value past due nor Past due more than have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Reinsurance assets 1,371.8 1,371.8 Insurance and other receivables 937.8 38.0 12.5 988.3 Derivative assets 79.7 79.7 Debt securities 4,730.3 4,730.3 Infrastructure debt 337.0 337.0 Commercial real estate loans 79.7 79.7 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,166.1 1,166.1 Total 8,702.4 38.0 12.5 8,752.9 Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value past due nor Past due more than have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2015 m m m m m Reinsurance assets 1,011.4 1,011.4 Insurance and other receivables 917.3 32.4 6.1 955.8 Derivative assets 19.6 19.6 Debt securities 5,240.1 5,240.1 Deposits with credit institutions with maturities three months 44.9 44.9 Infrastructure debt 329.6 329.6 1 Cash and cash equivalents 963.7 963.7 Total 8,526.6 32.4 6.1 8,565.1 Notes: 1.
This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal and cash at bank and in hand.
Within the analysis of debt securities above are bank debt securities at 31 December 2016 of 1,199.5 million 2015: 1,305.1 million, that can be further analysed as: secured 62.2 million 2015: 86.4 million : unsecured 973.8 million 2015: 1,059.6 million : and subordinated 163.5 million 2015: 159.1 million.
142 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 142 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Concentration risk This is the risk of exposure to increased losses associated with inadequately diversified portfolios of assets and or obligations, in particular: large exposures to individual credits either bond issuers or deposit-taking institutions : large exposures to different credits where movements in values and ratings are closely correlated.
Concentration risk on investments arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings or similar activities.
The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over exposure to particular sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities, by geographical area commercial real estate loans and infrastructure debt are all within the UK.
com 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities by geographical area infrastructure debt is all within the UK.
Debt Local Securitised securities Corporate government Sovereign credit Supranational total At 31 December 2015 m m m m m m Australia 107.6 107.6 Austria 6.3 6.3 Belgium 42.9 10.9 53.8 Canada 47.5 11.4 58.9 Cayman Islands 22.1 95.3 117.4 China 4.5 4.5 Denmark 7.9 8.5 16.4 Finland 13.7 13.7 France 235.5 25.4 260.9 Germany 325.4 16.4 341.8 Hong Kong 8.2 8.2 Ireland 0.8 0.8 Italy 10.1 4.2 14.3 Japan 47.8 47.8 Luxembourg 5.3 5.3 Mexico 9.1 9.1 Netherlands 170.7 170.7 New Zealand 5.3 5.3 Norway 18.3 10.0 28.3 Portugal 1.1 1.1 Singapore 24.7 24.7 South Korea 8.0 8.7 16.7 Spain 32.5 32.5 Sweden 80.7 11.2 91.9 Switzerland 83.9 83.9 UK 1,250.7 427.6 177.3 1,855.6 USA 1,639.0 83.5 1,722.5 Supranational 140.1 140.1 Total 4,195.9 105.3 442.7 356.1 140.1 5,240.1 144 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 144 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities by industry sector classifications.
2016 2015 m % m % At 31 December Social, of which: Education 145.5 43% 132.3 40% Healthcare 96.0 29% 98.1 30% Other 57.6 17% 58.8 18% Transport 37.9 11% 40.4 12% Total 337.0 100% 329.6 100% The tables below analyse the credit quality of debt securities that are neither past due nor impaired.
Securitised credit consisted of prime mortgage backed securities, collateralised loan obligations, securitised student loans and commercial mortgage backed securities.
Following a strategic decision, the Group decided to exit this asset class during August and September 2016. www.
com 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The tables below analyse the credit quality of financial and insurance assets that are neither past due nor impaired excluding debt securities analysed above.
The tables include reinsurance exposure, after provision.
1 details the Groups approach to reinsurance counterparty default risk management.
Includes receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries which generally do not have a credit rating.
4 Operational risk This is the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events.
Sources of operational risk for the Group include: Change risk This is the risk of failing to manage the Groups change portfolio resulting in conflicting priorities and failure to deliver strategic outcomes to time, cost or quality.
Technology and infrastructure risk This is the risk that the IT infrastructure is insufficient to deliver the Groups strategy.
Outsourcing risk This is the risk of failing to implement a robust framework for the sourcing, appointment and ongoing contract management of external suppliers, outsourced service providers and intragroup relationships.
This includes both domestic and offshore outsourcing activities.
Information Security Risk This is the risk of loss, corruption to Group or customer data or intellectual property, resulting in lost reputation, regulatory censure, supervision and fines or loss of competitive advantage.
The Group has in place agreed policies and standards to establish key controls relating to operational risk.
5 Liquidity risk This is the risk of being unable to realise investments in order to settle financial obligations when they fall due.
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters of the Groups liquidity risk appetite and is detailed within the liquidity risk minimum standard.
As part of this process the Investment and Treasury team are required to put in place a liquidity plan which must consider expected and stressed scenarios for cash in-flows and out-flows that is reviewed at least annually by the Investment risk forum.
Compliance is monitored in respect of both the minimum standard and the regulatory requirements of the PRA.
146 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 146 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The tables below analyse the maturity of the Groups derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,110.0 21.4 21.4 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 14.8 1.6 0.1 1.7 Interest rate swaps 1,902.0 1.1 3.0 54.7 56.6 Total 3,026.8 21.9 3.1 54.7 79.7 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2016 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 2,589.6 43.5 43.5 Designated as hedging instruments: Interest rate swaps 634.8 1.1 0.5 1.6 Total 3,224.4 44.6 0.5 45.1 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2015 m m m m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 27.1 0.4 0.4 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 5.0 0.3 0.3 Interest rate swaps 678.4 1.1 0.2 17.6 18.9 Total 710.5 1.8 0.2 17.6 19.6 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,876.3 42.2 42.2 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 0.7 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps 1,241.9 3.0 0.5 1.6 4.1 Total 3,118.9 45.3 0.5 1.6 46.4 www.
com 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The tables below analyse financial investments, cash and cash equivalents, insurance and financial liabilities by remaining duration, in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period, for each category.
Insurance liabilities exclude unearned premium reserves as there are no liquidity risks inherent in them.
148 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 148 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3.4 Capital adequacy unaudited Capital is managed in accordance with the Groups capital management minimum standard, the objectives of which are to manage capital efficiently and maintain an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency.
The Group determines the appropriate level of capital on the basis of a number of criteria, including economic, regulatory and rating agency capital requirements.
The Group seeks to hold capital resources consistent with an A range credit rating.
From 1 January 2016, the Groups regulatory capital position has been assessed against the Solvency II framework.
From 1 July 2016, the Group was approved to assess its SCR using a partial internal model, including a full internal economic capital model for the UKI underwriting entity.
The model is calibrated to a 99.5% confidence interval and consider business written to date and one year of future business, in line with Solvency II requirements.
Using the Groups partial internal model, there is a capital surplus of approximately 0.9 billion above a solvency capital requirement of 1.4 billion at 31 December 2016.
On 1 January 2016, this surplus was 0.6 billion above a solvency capital requirement of 1.8 billion calculated using the standard formula approach.
The Groups capital requirements and solvency position are produced and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Segmental analysis The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis.
The segments reflect the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each of the operating segments: Motor This segment consists of personal motor insurance together with the associated legal protection cover.
The Group sells motor insurance through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands.
Home This segment consists of home insurance together with associated legal protection cover.
The Group sells home insurance through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands.
Rescue and other personal lines This segment consists of rescue products sold through the Groups own brand, Green Flag, and other personal lines insurance, including travel, pet and creditor sold through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands.
Commercial This segment consists of commercial insurance for small and medium-size entities sold through NIG, Direct Line for Business, Churchill for Business and through partnership brands.
Certain income and charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management to be outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature.
Such income and charges are categorised as either run-off or restructuring and other one-off costs, described below.
Run-off The segment consists of two principal lines, policies previously written through the personal lines broker channel and Tesco business.
These residual businesses are now in run-off.
Restructuring and other one-off costs Restructuring costs are costs incurred in respect of the business activities where the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure its activities.
One-off costs were costs that were non-recurring in nature.
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
If any transaction were to occur, transfer prices between operating segments would be set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be eliminated on consolidation.
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Groups total revenue.
com 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis continued The table below analyses the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Rescue and other Motor Home personal lines Commercial Run-off Total m m m m m m Goodwill 126.7 45.8 28.7 10.1 211.3 Other segment assets 6,748.9 660.5 160.4 1,587.4 753.2 9,910.4 Segment liabilities 5,131.7 502.2 122.0 1,207.0 637.3 7,600.2 Segment net assets 1,743.9 204.1 67.1 390.5 115.9 2,521.5 The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group wide level.
150 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 150 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The table below analyses the Groups revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Discontinued operations are detailed in note 5.
The reportable segment net assets do not represent the Groups view of the capital requirements for its operating segments.
The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group wide level.
com 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Discontinued operations and disposal group The Group completed the disposal of its Italian and German subsidiaries represented by Direct Line Insurance S. p. A and Direct Line Versicherung AG respectively on 29 May 2015, which was treated as discontinued operations, generating a gain on disposal of 167.1 million.
A Discontinued operations The following table analyses performance relating to the discontinued operations for the period from 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015.
2015 m Gross written premium 261.1 Gross earned premium 207.2 Reinsurance premium 78.8 Net earned premium 128.4 1 Investment return 37.1 Instalment income 1.4 Other operating income 0.1 Total income 167.0 Insurance claims 156.2 Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 60.9 Net insurance claims 95.3 Commission expenses 28.0 Operating expenses 10.2 Total expenses 38.2 Operating profit from discontinued operations 33.5 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 167.1 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 200.6 Tax charge 19.4 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 181.2 Underwriting loss 5.1 Loss ratio 74.2% Commission ratio 21.8% Expense ratio 8.0% COR 104.0% Note: 1.
Realised net gains on AFS investments in 2015 included 29.9 million of gains reclassified through the income statement, on disposal of International.
The following table analyses the other comprehensive loss relating to discontinued operations, included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period from 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015.
2015 m Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement: Exchange differences on the translation of foreign operations 14.4 Cash flow hedge 1.2 Fair value gain on AFS investments 0.6 Less: realised net gains on AFS investments included in income statement 31.8 Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 10.1 Other comprehensive loss for the year net of tax 7.9 152 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 152 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The following table analyses the cash flows relating to the discontinued operations included in the consolidated cash flow statement for the period 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015.
2015 m Net cash generated from operating activities 19.1 Net cash used by investing activities 1.5 1 Net cash generated from the disposal of discontinued operations 327.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 9.8 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 334.9 Note: 1.
The net cash generated from the disposal of discontinued operations comprises the net cash consideration of 422.5 million less the cash held by the German and Italian subsidiaries at the point of sale of 95.4 million.
B Disposal group The following table analyses the gain on disposal of discontinued operations during the year including the assets and liabilities held for sale in the disposal group immediately prior to the disposal on 29 May 2015.
29 May 2015 m Assets Intangible assets 5.4 Property, plant and equipment 5.2 Reinsurance assets 171.0 Deferred tax assets 41.9 Current tax assets Deferred acquisition costs 105.5 Insurance and other receivables 152.3 Prepayments and accrued income 3.1 Financial investments 665.5 Cash and cash equivalents 95.4 Total assets 1,245.3 Liabilities Insurance liabilities 504.5 Unearned premium reserve 355.0 Trade and other payables including insurance payables 125.3 Deferred tax liabilities 32.0 Current tax liabilities 4.0 Total liabilities 1,020.8 Net assets 224.5 1 Cash consideration received 438.1 Transaction costs 15.6 Net cash consideration 422.5 Net assets disposed 224.5 Currency translation reserve reclassified to the income statement 30.9 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 167.1 Note: 1.
The Group entered into a foreign currency hedge converting Euro into Sterling in September 2014 for the disposal proceeds.
The foreign currency hedge gain of 34.0 million and other sale-related consideration are included in cash consideration received.
com 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Net earned premium 1 2016 2015 m m Gross earned premium: Gross written premium 3,274.1 3,152.5 Movement in unearned premium reserve 71.3 42.4 3,202.8 3,110.1 Reinsurance premium: Premium payable 206.2 191.7 Movement in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 4.0 2.5 202.2 189.2 Total 3,000.6 2,920.9 Note: 1.
Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations.
Investment return 1 2016 2015 m m Investment income: Interest income from debt securities 136.5 140.1 Cash and cash equivalent interest income 4.2 6.7 Interest income from infrastructure debt 7.8 4.4 Interest income from commercial real estate loans 1.0 Interest income 149.5 151.2 Rental income from investment property 18.4 17.9 167.9 169.1 Net realised gains losses : AFS debt securities 15.3 12.4 Derivatives 282.3 56.5 Investment property note 20 1.3 265.7 44.1 Net unrealised gains: Derivatives 265.2 48.9 Investment property note 20 4.1 24.2 269.3 73.1 Total 171.5 198.1 Note: 1.
The table below analyses the realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivative instruments included in investment return.
Realised Unrealised Realised Unrealised 1 1 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Derivative losses gains: 2 Foreign exchange forward contracts 425.7 19.1 82.4 19.1 Associated foreign exchange risk 151.0 253.0 44.9 61.9 Net losses gains on foreign exchange forward contracts 274.7 272.1 37.5 42.8 2 Interest rate swaps 16.9 20.7 28.7 1.2 Associated interest rate risk on hedged items 9.3 27.6 9.7 4.9 Net losses gains on interest rate derivatives 7.6 6.9 19.0 6.1 Total 282.3 265.2 56.5 48.9 Notes: 1.
Foreign exchange forward contracts are at fair value through the income statement and interest rate swaps are designated as hedging instruments.
154 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 154 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 8.
Other operating income 1 2016 2015 m m Vehicle replacement referral income 14.1 12.5 Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 19.3 15.5 2 Other income 24.8 22.7 Total 58.2 50.7 Notes: 1.
Other income includes legal services revenue, salvage income and fee income from insurance intermediary services.
The table below analyses the claims handling expenses included in the net insurance claims.
Commission expenses 1 2016 2015 m m Commission expenses 246.8 253.2 Expenses incurred under profit participations 97.2 66.1 Total 344.0 319.3 Note: 1.
Operating expenses Restructuring Total Ongoing costs Run-off Total Group 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m 1 Staff costs 269.0 16.0 285.0 1,2, 3 Other operating expenses 250.9 23.9 0.2 275.0 Marketing 112.6 112.6 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 96.7 96.7 Depreciation 30.1 30.1 Total 759.3 39.9 0.2 799.4 Notes: 1.
Staff costs and other operating expenses attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims.
Other operating expenses include IT costs, insurance levies, professional fees and property costs.
A property site in Bristol comprising of freehold property and fixtures and fittings was transferred from freehold property to assets held for sale in 2016.
The property with a carrying value of 23.5 million was remeasured on transfer to its fair value of 3.8 million resulting in a charge to other operating expenses in Restructuring of 19.7 million.
com 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Operating expenses continued Restructuring and other Total Ongoing one-off costs Run-off Total Group 1 1 1 1 2015 2015 2015 2015 m m m m 2 Staff costs 254.2 18.7 0.4 273.3 2,3, 4 Other operating expenses 219.0 30.0 0.2 249.2 Marketing 117.8 0.1 117.9 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 67.4 67.4 Depreciation 30.7 30.7 Total 689.1 48.7 0.7 738.5 Notes: 1.
The Pudsey sites were transferred from property, plant and equipment to assets held for sales in 2015.
The sites with a carrying value of 22.1 million were remeasured on transfer to their fair value of 5.1 million resulting in a charge to other operating expenses in Restructuring of 17.0 million.
The table below analyses the number of people employed by the Groups operations.
The increase in 2016 headcount relates to the acquisition of additional UK accident repair centres and recruitment of additional DLG Legal Services Limited employees.
The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Groups operations comprised: 1 2016 2015 m m Wages and salaries 348.1 335.4 Social security costs 38.9 37.8 Pension costs 24.4 23.4 Share-based payments 16.8 12.1 Total 428.2 408.7 Note: 1.
The table below analyses auditors remuneration in respect of the Groups operations.
1 2016 2015 m m Fees payable for the audit of: The Companys annual accounts 0.3 0.3 The Companys subsidiaries 1.5 1.6 Total audit fees 1.8 1.9 Fees payable for non-audit services: Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.3 Other services 0.2 0.6 Total non-audit services 0.4 0.9 Total 2.2 2.8 Note: 1.
156 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 156 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Aggregate Directors emoluments The table below analyses the total amount of Directors remuneration, all of which is in relation to continuing operations, in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations.
2016 2015 m m Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 3.1 3.5 Gains on exercise of share options 3.5 4.9 Defined contribution pension scheme contributions 0.1 Total 6.6 8.5 Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
At 31 December 2016, one Director 2015: one had retirement benefits accruing under the defined contribution pension scheme in respect of qualifying service.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, one Director exercised share options 2015: two.
Finance costs 1 2016 2015 m m Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 46.3 46.3 2 Net interest received on designated hedging instrument 8.0 8.0 2 Unrealised gain loss on designated hedging instrument 19.6 4.5 2 Unrealised loss gain on associated interest rate risk on hedged item 17.8 5.9 Amortisation of arrangement costs and discount on issue of subordinated liabilities 0.7 0.7 Total 37.2 37.6 Notes: 1.
As described in note 31, on 27 April 2012 the Group issued subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of 500 million at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year designated hedging instrument to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the notes for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points, which increased to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
Tax charge 1 2016 2015 m m Current taxation: Charge for the year 84.4 103.5 2 Over provision in respect of prior year 7.7 4.6 76.7 98.9 Deferred taxation note 14 : Credit charge for the year 5.1 6.4 Under provision in respect of prior year 2.6 3.0 2.5 9.4 Current taxation 76.7 98.9 Deferred taxation note 14 2.5 9.4 Tax charge for the year 74.2 108.3 Notes: 1.
The prior year current tax credit for the year ended 31 December 2016 includes 5.6 million relating to retrospective claims for research and development tax relief.
com 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Tax charge continued The following table analyses the difference between the actual income tax charge and the expected income tax charge 1 computed by applying the standard rate of corporation tax of 20.0% 2015: 20.25%.
2 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 353.0 507.5 Expected tax charge 70.6 102.8 Effects of: Disallowable expenses 9.7 7.8 Effect of change in corporation taxation rate 1.0 0.7 Over provision in respect of prior year 5.1 1.6 Tax charge for the year 74.2 108.3 Effective income tax rate 21.0% 21.3% Notes: 1.
In the Finance Act 2013 the UK Government enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% effective from 1 April 2015.
The Finance No 2 Act 2015 enacted further reductions to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and 18% effective from 1 April 2020.
The Finance Act 2016 then enacted a further reduction to 17% effective from the 1 April 2020.
As a consequence, the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets or liabilities are settled.
The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above.
Current and deferred tax 2016 2015. m m Per balance sheet: Current tax assets 0.1 0.1 Current tax liabilities 0.5 10.3 Deferred tax liabilities 46.0 29.9 The table below analyses the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon.
Provisions Depreciation and other Retirement in excess of NonAFS temporary benefit capital distributable Investment Share-based revaluation 1 differences obligations allowances reserve properties payments reserve Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 5.4 0.7 0.8 25.0 4.8 3.7 20.6 Charge credit to the income statement on continuing operations 2.1 0.1 3.9 3.6 0.3 9.4 Charge to other comprehensive income 1.6 1.6 Credit direct to equity 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2015 3.3 2.4 0.8 28.9 8.4 5.7 29.9 Charge credit to the income statement on continuing operations 0.7 0.4 1.8 5.5 0.2 0.3 2.5 Charge to other comprehensive income 0.7 18.0 17.3 Credit direct to equity 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2016 2.6 2.1 1.0 23.4 8.2 4.1 18.0 46.0 Note: 1.
The non-distributable reserve was a statutory claims equalisation reserve calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA.
With the introduction of Solvency II on 1 January 2016, the requirement to maintain this reserve ceased and the balance at 31 December 2015 was released to retained earnings.
The taxation of this release is spread over six years from the change in regulation.
This is provided for in deferred tax above as it represents the future unwind of previously claimed tax deductions for transfers into this reserve.
In addition, the Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2016 of 7.5 million 2015: 4.1 million in relation to capital losses of which 4.1 million 2015: 1.0 million relates to realised losses and 3.4 million 2015: 3.1 million relates to unrealised losses.
158 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 158 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15.
Dividends 2016 2015 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 2015 final dividend of 9.2p per share paid on 19 May 2016 126.0 1 2014 final dividend of 8.8 pence per share paid on 17 April 2015 131.6 2016 first interim dividend of 4.9 pence per share paid on 9 September 2016 67.1 2015 first interim dividend of 4.6 pence per share paid on 11 September 2015 63.0 2016 first special interim dividend of 10.0 pence per share paid on 9 September 2016 136.9 2015 first special interim dividend of 27.5 pence per share paid on 24 July 2015 411.5 2015 second special interim dividend of 8.8p per share paid on 19 May 2016 120.6 2014 second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share paid on 17 April 2015 59.9 450.6 666.0 Proposed dividends: 2016 final dividend of 9.7 pence per share 133.4 2015 final dividend of 9.2 pence per share 126.5 2015 second special interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share 121.0 Note: 1.
The Board paid an interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend.
The proposed final dividend for 2016 has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The trustees of the employee share trusts waived their entitlement to dividends on shares held to meet obligations arising on the Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Annual Incentive Plan and Restrictive Share Plan awards, which reduced the total dividend paid for the year ended 31 December 2016 by 1.8 million 2015: 1.7 million.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the year.
On 30 June 2015, the Group completed an 11 for 12 share consolidation which had the effect of reducing the number of 10 shares in issue from 1,500 million Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each to 1,375 million new Ordinary Shares of 10 11 pence each.
The weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2015 reflects this share consolidation.
Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
2016 2015 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from: Continuing operations 278.8 399.2 Discontinued operations 181.2 Total Group 278.8 580.4 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,368.7 1,431.2 Basic earnings per share pence : Continuing operations 20.4 27.9 Discontinued operations 12.7 Total Group 20.4 40.6 www.
com 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Earnings per share continued Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the period adjusted for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has share options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
2016 2015 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from: Continuing operations 278.8 399.2 Discontinued operations 181.2 Total Group 278.8 580.4 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,368.7 1,431.2 Effect of dilutive potential of share options and contingently issuable shares millions 13.1 17.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share millions 1,381.8 1,449.0 Diluted earnings per share pence : Continuing operations 20.2 27.6 Discontinued operations 12.5 Total Group 20.2 40.1 17.
Net assets per share and return on equity Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
The table below analyses net asset and tangible net asset value per share.
2016 2015 At 31 December m m Net assets 2,521.5 2,630.0 Goodwill and other intangible assets 508.9 524.8 Tangible net assets 2,012.6 2,105.2 Number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,375.0 1,375.0 Shares held by employee share trusts millions 9.9 6.3 Closing number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,365.1 1,368.7 Net asset value per share pence 184.7 192.2 Tangible net asset value per share pence 147.4 153.8 Return on equity The table below details the calculation of return on equity.
2016 2015 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from: Continuing operations 278.8 399.2 Discontinued operations 181.2 Total Group 278.8 580.4 Opening shareholders equity 2,630.0 2,810.5 Closing shareholders equity 2,521.5 2,630.0 Average shareholders equity 2,575.8 2,720.2 Return on equity 10.8% 21.3% 160 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 160 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 18.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 211.0 428.5 639.5 Acquisitions and additions 74.7 74.7 1 Disposals and write-off 8.0 8.0 At 31 December 2015 211.0 495.2 706.2 Acquisitions and additions 0.3 80.5 80.8 1 Disposals and write-off 5.8 5.8 At 31 December 2016 211.3 569.9 781.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2015 122.0 122.0 Charge for the year relating to continuing operations 63.1 63.1 1 Disposals and write-off 8.0 8.0 Impairment losses 4.3 4.3 At 31 December 2015 181.4 181.4 Charge for the year 57.4 57.4 1 Disposals and write-off 5.8 5.8 2 Impairment losses 39.3 39.3 At 31 December 2016 272.3 272.3 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 211.3 297.6 508.9 At 31 December 2015 211.0 313.8 524.8 Notes: 1.
Disposals and write-off include fully amortised intangible assets no longer utilised by the Group in its operating activities.
The impairment losses relate to capitalised software development costs for ongoing IT projects primarily relating to development of new systems.
The impairment losses result from a review of the projected benefits and the charge which reduced the carrying value of impaired assets to nil, is reflected in the Motor segment.
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited 141.0 million and Churchill Insurance Company Limited 70.0 million, which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial.
The addition to goodwill in the year ended 31 December 2016 of 0.3m arose on acquisition of two accident repair centres with a combined purchase price of 3.6 million which was allocated to Motor.
The Groups testing for goodwill impairment includes the comparison of the recoverable amount of each CGU to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indications of impairment.
com 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The table below analyses the goodwill of the Group by CGU.
2016 2015 m m Motor 126.7 126.4 Home 45.8 45.8 Rescue and other personal lines 28.7 28.7 Commercial 10.1 10.1 Total 211.3 211.0 There have been no impairments in goodwill for the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU fair value less the costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU.
Fair value is the estimated amount that could be obtained from the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs were based on the value-in-use test, using the Groups five-year strategic plan.
The long-term growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation.
The risk discount rates incorporate observable market long-term government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium based on independent analysis.
The table below details the recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held.
Sensitivity: Impact on Assumptions recoverable amount of a: Terminal Pre-tax Recoverable 1% decrease in 1% increase in 1% decrease growth discount amount in excess terminal growth pre-tax discount in forecast 1 rate rate of carrying value rate rate pre-tax profit % % m m m m CGU Motor 3.0 11.6 686.0 189.9 260.5 24.8 Home 3.0 11.6 667.9 66.6 68.2 9.0 Rescue and other personal lines 3.0 11.6 611.6 56.6 76.9 6.9 Commercial 3.0 11.6 374.1 62.1 84.5 7.6 Note: 1.
Reflects a 1% decrease in the profit for each year of the five-year plan.
162 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 162 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold land Other and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 83.8 154.3 238.1 Additions 17.9 49.2 67.1 Disposals 0.1 15.7 15.8 Transfer to assets held for sale note 28 22.6 22.6 At 31 December 2015 79.0 187.8 266.8 Additions 18.8 31.1 49.9 Disposals 14.3 14.3 Transfer to assets held for sale note 28 18.0 8.3 26.3 At 31 December 2016 79.8 196.3 276.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2015 1.7 55.1 56.8 Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 1.2 29.5 30.7 Disposals 11.3 11.3 Impairment losses 4.8 4.8 Transfer to assets held for sale note 28 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2015 2.4 78.1 80.5 Depreciation charge for the year 1.0 29.1 30.1 Disposals 12.6 12.6 Transfer to assets held for sale note 28 0.3 2.5 2.8 At 31 December 2016 3.1 92.1 95.2 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 76.7 104.2 180.9 At 31 December 2015 76.6 109.7 186.3 The Group is satisfied that the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment is not less than its carrying value.
Investment property 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 347.4 307.2 Additions at cost 1.4 16.0 Increase in fair value during the year 5.4 24.2 Disposals 25.2 At 31 December 329.0 347.4 Note: 1.
The cost included in carrying value at 31 December 2016 is 275.3 million 2015: 295.5 million.
The investment properties are measured at fair value derived from valuation work carried out at the balance sheet date by independent property valuers.
The valuation conforms to international valuation standards.
The fair value was determined using a methodology based on recent market transactions for similar properties, which have been adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property within the portfolio.
This approach to valuation is consistent with the methodology used in the year ended 31 December 2015.
Lease agreements with tenants are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include contingent rents.
com 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group, over which it exercises 100% voting power, are shown below.
Their capital consists of Ordinary Shares which are unlisted.
All subsidiaries a full list of which is included in note 2 of the Company financial statements are included in the Groups consolidated financial information.
Place of incorporation Name of subsidiary and operation Principal activity DL Insurance Services Limited United Kingdom Management services U K Insurance Limited United Kingdom General insurance On 29 May 2015, the Group completed the sale of its International business comprising Direct Line Insurance S. p. A and Direct Line Versicherung AG for a cash consideration of 438.1 million.
Details of the fair value of assets and liabilities disposed of and the gain on disposal are set out in note 5B.
The Group did not dispose of any other subsidiaries in the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
Reinsurance assets 2016 2015 m m Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 1,329.0 975.8 Impairment provision 50.7 53.9 1,278.3 921.9 Reinsurers unearned premium reserve 93.5 89.5 Total 1,371.8 1,011.4 Movements in reinsurance asset impairment provision 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 53.9 66.4 Additional provision 4.2 5.0 Release to income statement 7.4 17.5 At 31 December 50.7 53.9 23.
Insurance and other receivables 2016 2015 m m Receivables arising from insurance contracts: Due from policyholders 820.8 800.1 Impairment provision of policyholder receivables 0.3 0.7 Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 66.4 60.0 Impairment provision of agent, broker and intermediary receivables 1.0 1.3 Other debtors 102.4 97.7 Total 988.3 955.8 164 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 164 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 25.
Derivative financial instruments 2016 2015 m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 21.4 0.4 Designated as hedging instruments: 1 Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1.7 0.3 Interest rate swaps 56.6 18.9 Total 79.7 19.6 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 43.5 42.2 Designated as hedging instruments: 1 Foreign exchange contracts forwards 0.1 Interest rate swaps 1.6 4.1 Total 45.1 46.4 Note: 1.
Cash flow hedges in relation to supplier payments.
Financial investments 2016 2015 m m AFS debt securities Corporate 4,183.7 4,182.4 Supranational 98.6 140.1 Local government 21.7 105.3 Sovereign 341.2 442.7 Securitised credit 356.1 Total 4,645.2 5,226.6 HTM debt securities Corporate 85.1 13.5 Total debt securities 4,730.3 5,240.1 Total debt securities 1 Fixed interest rate 4,709.6 4,801.6 Floating interest rate 20.7 438.5 Total 4,730.3 5,240.1 Loans and receivables Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months 44.9 Infrastructure debt 337.0 329.6 Commercial real estate loans 79.7 Total 5,147.0 5,614.6 Note: 1.
The Group swaps a fixed interest rate for a floating rate of interest on its US Dollar, Euro and a small amount of its Sterling corporate debt securities by entering into interest rate derivatives.
The hedged amount at 31 December 2016 was 1,593.6 million 2015: 1,283.3 million.
com 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 166.6 131.8 1 Short-term deposits with credit institutions 999.5 831.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1,166.1 963.7 2 Bank overdrafts 55.3 61.3 3 Cash and bank overdrafts 1,110.8 902.4 Notes: 1.
This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal.
Bank overdrafts represent short-term timing differences between transactions posted in the records of the Group transactions flowing through the accounts at the bank.
Cash and bank overdrafts is included for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2016 was 0.45% 2015: 0.56% and average maturity was 10 days 2015: 10 days.
Assets held for sale 2016 2015 m m 1 Freehold property held for sale 3.8 5.1 Note: 1.
The freehold property held for sale at 31 December 2016 is a site in Bristol which was transferred from property, plant and equipment to AFS in 2016 with a carrying value of 23.5 million and impaired by 19.7 million to reflect the costs of remediation and estimated realisable value.
The freehold property held for sale at 31 December 2015 comprising the sites at Pudsey were sold in the year releasing the carrying value.
Share capital 2016 2015 Number Number 2016 2015 Millions Millions m m Issued and fully paid: equity shares 10 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 1,375 1,375 150.0 150.0 11 At a General Meeting on 29 June 2015, shareholders approved a share consolidation which completed on 30 June 2015.
10 As a result of the share consolidation, shareholders held 11 new Ordinary Shares of 10 11 pence each issued by the Company in exchange for every 12 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each held immediately prior to the share consolidation, which were cancelled by the Company.
Employee trust shares The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Groups share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and held by employee share trusts.
At 31 December 2016, 9,946,340 Ordinary Shares 2015: 6,256,108 Ordinary Shares were owned by the employee share trusts with a cost of 34.3 million 2015: 20.4 million.
These Ordinary Shares are carried at cost and have a market value of 36.7 million 2015: 25.5 million.
166 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 166 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 30.
Other reserves Movements in the revaluation reserve for AFS investments 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 5.4 115.6 Revaluation during the year gross 119.6 100.5 Revaluation during the year tax 20.2 22.0 Realised gains gross 15.3 12.5 Realised gains tax 2.6 2.5 Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary gross 31.8 Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary tax 10.1 At 31 December 92.1 5.4 Movements in the non-distributable reserve 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 152.9 124.9 Transfer to from retained earnings 152.9 28.0 At 31 December 152.9 The non-distributable reserve is a statutory claims equalisation reserve that is calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA.
With the introduction of Solvency II on 1 January 2016 the requirement to maintain the reserve ceased and the non-distributable reserve transferred into retained earnings.
A new model to calculate the Groups capital requirements under Solvency II was agreed with the PRA in June 2016.
Capital reserves 2016 2015 m m 1 Capital contribution reserve 100.0 100.0 2 Capital reduction reserve 1,350.0 1,350.0 Total 1,450.0 1,450.0 Notes: 1.
Arose on the cancellation of a debt payable to a shareholder.
Arose on the reduction of nominal value of each share in issue with a corresponding transfer to capital reduction reserve.
Subordinated liabilities 2016 2015 m m Subordinated guaranteed dated notes 539.6 521.1 The subordinated guaranteed dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year designated hedging instrument to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points which was credit value adjusted to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
The notes, with a nominal value of 500 million, have a redemption date of 27 April 2042.
The Group has the option to repay the notes on specific dates from 27 April 2022.
If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors have been met.
The Group has the option to defer interest payments in certain circumstances on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.
com 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Unearned premium reserve Movement in unearned premium reserve Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2015 1,434.2 87.0 1,347.2 Net movement in the year 42.4 2.5 39.9 At 31 December 2015 1,476.6 89.5 1,387.1 Net movement in the year 71.3 4.0 67.3 At 31 December 2016 1,547.9 93.5 1,454.4 www.
com 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution scheme The pension charge in respect of the defined contribution scheme for the year ended 31 December 2016 was 24.9 million 2015: 23.5 million.
Defined benefit scheme The Groups defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although the Group remains the sponsoring employer for obligations to current and deferred pensioners based on qualifying years service and final salaries.
The defined benefit scheme is legally separated from the Group with trustees who are required by law to act in the interests of the scheme and of all the relevant stakeholders.
The trustees of the pension scheme are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2016 is 20 years 2015: 20 years using accounting assumptions.
The table below sets out the principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit scheme obligations.
2016 2015 % % Rate of increase in pension payment 2.2 2.1 Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.2 2.1 Discount rate 2.7 3.8 Inflation rate 3.3 3.2 No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no obligations in the scheme that are linked to future increases in salaries.
Post-retirement mortality assumptions 2016 2015 Life expectancy at age 60 now: Males 88.1 87.8 Females 90.1 89.9 Life expectancy at age 60 in 20 years time: Males 90.3 90.1 Females 92.5 92.3 The table below analyses the fair value of the scheme assets by type of asset.
The liquidity fund is an investment in an open ended fund incorporated in the Republic of Ireland which targets capital stability and income in the UK.
It is invested in short-term fixed income and variable rate securities such as Treasury Bills listed or traded on one or more recognised exchange.
The majority of debt and equity instruments held directly or through the liquidity fund have quoted prices on active markets.
170 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 170 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Movement in net pension surplus Present value of Fair value of defined benefit defined benefit scheme Net pension scheme assets obligations surplus m m m At 1 January 2015 83.1 79.6 3.5 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 2.8 2.7 0.1 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 1.9 1.2 0.7 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1.1 1.1 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 6.3 6.3 Contributions by employer 2.8 2.8 Benefits paid 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2015 85.1 72.0 13.1 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 3.2 2.7 0.5 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 13.7 1.2 14.9 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 19.3 19.3 Contributions by employer 2.8 2.8 Benefits paid 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2016 102.5 90.5 12.0 Note: 1.
The net interest income cost in the income statement has been included under other operating expenses.
The table below details the history of the scheme for the current and prior years.
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit scheme obligations 90.5 72.0 79.6 68.0 61.2 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 102.5 85.1 83.1 66.0 63.7 Net surplus deficit 12.0 13.1 3.5 2.0 2.5 Experience adjustment gains losses on scheme liabilities 1.2 1.2 1.0 0.2 0.1 Experience adjustment gains losses on scheme assets 13.7 1.9 12.9 1.3 2.2 www.
com 171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions.
The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques.
Impact on present value of defined benefit Impact on pension cost scheme obligations 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Discount rate 0.25% increase in discount rate 0.2 0.2 4.7 3.7 0.25% decrease in discount rate 0.1 0.2 4.7 3.7 Inflation rate 0.25% increase in inflation rate 2.3 1.7 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 2.3 1.7 Life expectancy 1 year increase in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 2.7 2.0 1 year decrease in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 2.7 2.0 The most recent funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme took place as at 1 October 2014.
The Group agreed with the trustees to make a contribution of 2.8 million in 2016 with further contributions of up to 1.5 million per annum in 2017 and 2018 to meet the schemes funding requirements.
As a result of the latest funding update no contribution is expected to be payable in 2017.
Share-based payments The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in the form of an LTIP, a Restricted Shares Plan, a DAIP and Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans, including both the Free Share awards and a Buy-As-You-Earn Plan, details of which are set out below.
All awards are to be satisfied using market purchased shares.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP with awards granted in the form of nil-cost options.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment by the Group and also the Group achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE.
Awards were made in the year ended 31 December 2016 over 3.3 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 12.4 million at the 2016 grant dates 2015: 3.4 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 11.4 million.
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The table below details the inputs into the model.
2016 2015 Weighted average assumptions during the year: Share price pence 368 339 Exercise price pence 0 0 Volatility of share price 18% 20% Average comparator volatility 29% 27% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk-free rate 0.3% 0.8% Expected volatility was determined by considering the actual volatility of the Groups share price since its initial public offering and that of a group of listed UK insurance companies.
Plan participants are entitled to receive additional shares in respect of dividends paid to shareholders over the vesting period.
Therefore no deduction has been made from the fair value of awards in respect of dividends.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
172 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 172 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Restricted Shares Plan The purpose of the Restricted Shares Plan is to facilitate the wider participation in Group share-based awards to eligible employees.
These awards can be granted at any time during the year, generally have no performance criteria, and vest over periods ranging between one and three years from the date of the grant, subject to continued employment.
During the year awards were made over 0.3 million Ordinary Shares 2015: 0.0 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 0.9 million 2015: 0.1 million using the market value at the date of grant.
Deferred Annual Incentive Plan To incentivise delivery of performance over a one-year operating cycle, Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible for awards under the Annual Incentive Plan, of which at least 40% is granted in the form of a nil-cost option under the DAIP with the remainder being settled in cash following year end.
During the year awards were made over 1.0 million Ordinary Shares 2015: 1.0 million Ordinary Shares under this plan with an estimated fair value of 3.7 million 2015: 3.4 million using the market value at the date of grant.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2016 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years from the date of grant.
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Free Share awards In 2016, the Group offered all eligible UK employees a Free Share award granting 71 Ordinary Shares 2015: 122 Ordinary Shares free of charge.
These awards have no performance criteria attached and vest on the third anniversary of the award grant date, subject to completion of three years, continuing employment.
The Group initially granted 0.8 million Ordinary Shares 2015: 1.3 million with an estimated fair value of 2.8 million 2015: 4.2 million using the market value at the date of grant.
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Buy-As-You-Earn Plan The Buy-As-You-Earn Plan entitles employees to purchase shares from pre-tax pay for between 10 and 150 per month and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased.
In the year ended 31 December 2016, matching share awards were granted over 0.4 million Ordinary Shares 2015: 0.3 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 1.3 million 2015: 1.1 million.
The fair value of each matching share award is estimated using the market value at the date of grant.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment with the Group together with continued ownership of the associated purchased shares up to the point of vesting.
Movement in total share awards Number of Number of share awards share awards millions millions 2016 2015 At 1 January 17.2 16.4 1 Granted during the year 7.7 6.8 Impact of share consolidation see note 29 1.6 Forfeited during the year 0.8 1.5 Exercised during the year 6.0 2.9 At 31 December 18.1 17.2 Exercisable at 31 December 2.6 1.6 Note: 1.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP and DAIP award plans, additional awards of 1.9 million shares were granted during the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: 0.8 million in respect of the equivalent dividend.
In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2016, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.39 years 2015: 1.44 years.
No share awards expired during the year 2015: nil.
The weighted average share price for awards exercised during the year ended 31 December 2016 was 3.68 2015: 3.95.
The Group recognised total expenses in the year ended 31 December 2016 of 16.8 million 2015: 12.1 million relating to equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
Further information on share-based payments, in respect of Directors, is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
com 173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 2016 2015 m m Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 15.5 22.5 Due to reinsurers 84.1 78.9 Due to insurance companies 4.4 4.7 Trade creditors and accruals 334.7 295.5 Other creditors 98.4 98.8 Other taxes 93.0 78.9 Provisions 64.8 73.1 Deferred income 4.3 4.1 Total 699.2 656.5 Movement in provisions during the year Regulatory levies Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2016 27.2 9.0 36.9 73.1 Additional provision 34.4 9.8 27.2 71.4 Utilisation of provision 33.4 4.9 29.3 67.6 Released to income statement 3.8 8.3 12.1 At 31 December 2016 28.2 10.1 26.5 64.8.
174 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 174 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 37.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2016 2015 m m Profit for the year 278.8 580.4 Adjustments for: Investment return 171.5 235.2 Instalment income 107.1 101.5 Finance costs 37.2 37.6 Defined benefit pension scheme net interest income 0.5 Equity-settled share-based payment charge 16.8 12.1 Tax charge 74.2 127.7 Depreciation and amortisation charges 87.5 95.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 39.3 9.1 Impairment provision movements on reinsurance contracts 3.2 12.5 Impairment charge on assets held for sale freehold property 19.7 12.9 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 167.1 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1.7 4.7 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 272.9 363.5 Movements in working capital: Net decrease in net insurance liabilities including reinsurance assets, unearned premium reserves and deferred acquisition costs 143.1 194.5 Net increase in prepayments and accrued income and other assets 20.1 2.8 Net increase in insurance and other receivables 32.5 66.4 Net increase in trade and other payables including insurance payables 42.7 52.3 Contribution to defined benefit pension scheme 2.8 2.8 Cash generated from operations 117.1 149.3 Taxes paid 83.3 107.4 Cash flow hedges 1.2 0.2 Net cash generated from operating activities before investment of insurance assets 35.0 42.1 Interest received 294.6 318.7 Rental income received from investment property 18.4 17.9 Purchases of investment property 1.4 16.0 Proceeds on disposal of investment property 25.2 Proceeds on disposal maturity of AFS debt securities 2,489.9 3,549.3 Net decrease in financial investments: loans and receivables to credit institutions 44.9 9.8 Advances made for Infrastructure debt and commercial real estate loans 97.7 268.9 Repayments of infrastructure debt 11.0 16.6 Purchases of AFS debt securities 1,886.5 3,110.8 Purchase of HTM debt securities commercial real estate loans 71.0 13.5 Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 827.4 503.1 38.
Contingent liabilities The Group did not have any contingent liabilities at 31 December 2016 2015: none.
com 175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
Commitments Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessee The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating lease agreements for properties, vehicles and other assets.
2016 2015 m m Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 18.3 18.4 The following table analyses the outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases by the period in which they fall due.
2016 2015 m m Within one year 17.4 16.8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 54.2 53.2 After five years 159.7 162.0 Total 231.3 232.0 Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor The following table analyses future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of property leased to third-party tenants.
Fair value Fair value hierarchy For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: Level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market.
In an active market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
Level 2 financial assets and liabilities are measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable current market transactions.
These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes or assets that are valued using the Groups own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market-observable.
Level 3 fair value measurements used for investment properties, HTM debt securities, infrastructure debt and commercial real estate loans are those derived from a valuation technique that includes inputs for the asset that are unobservable.
176 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 176 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Comparison of carrying value to fair value of financial instruments and assets carried at fair value The following table compares the carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments and other assets where the Group discloses a fair value.
Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m m At 31 December 2016 Assets held at fair value: Investment property note 20 329.0 329.0 329.0 Derivative assets note 25 79.7 79.7 79.7 AFS debt securities note 26 4,645.2 341.24,304.0 4,645.2 Other financial assets: HTM debt securities note 26 85.1 13.6 74.6 88.2 Infrastructure debt note 26 337.0 339.2 339.2 Commercial real estate loans note 26 79.7 79.8 79.8 Total assets 5,555.7 341.2 4,397.3 822.6 5,561.1 Liabilities held at fair value: Derivative liabilities note 25 45.1 45.1 45.1 Other financial liabilities: Subordinated liabilities note 31 539.6 625.0 625.0 Total liabilities 584.7 670.1 670.1 Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m m At 31 December 2015 Assets held at fair value: Investment property note 20 347.4 347.4 347.4 Derivative assets note 25 19.6 19.6 19.6 AFS debt securities note 26 5,226.6 442.7 4,783.9 5,226.6 Other financial assets: HTM debt securities note 26 13.5 12.7 12.7 Deposits with credit institutions three months note 26 44.9 44.9 44.9 Infrastructure debt note 26 329.6 322.2 322.2 Total assets 5,981.6 442.7 4,803.5 727.2 5,973.4 Liabilities held at fair value: Derivative liabilities note 25 46.4 46.4 46.4 Other financial liabilities: Subordinated liabilities note 31 521.1 623.2 623.2 Total liabilities 567.5 669.6 669.6 Differences arise between carrying value and fair value where the measurement basis of the asset or liability is not fair value e. g. assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Fair values of the following assets and liabilities approximate their carrying values: Insurance and other receivables: Cash and cash equivalents: Borrowings: and Trade and other payables including insurance payables excluding provisions The movements in assets held at fair value and classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy are all within Investment property and are analysed in note 20.
There were no changes in the categorisation of assets between levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year for assets and liabilities held at 31 December 2015. www.
com 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 41.
Related parties Transactions between the Groups subsidiary undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and accordingly are not disclosed.
There were no sales and purchases of products and services to or from related parties in the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of products and services to and from related parties Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m 1 Total 0.2 0.2 Note: 1.
This balance relates to an amount recoverable from RBS Group plc, the Groups former parent company.
Movement in amounts owed by and to related parties Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m At 1 January 0.2 0.2 25.4 Settled in the year 25.4 At 31 December 0.2 0.2 Compensation of key management 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 8.4 9.5 Post-employment benefits 0.2 Termination benefits 0.1 Share-based payments 7.6 4.5 Total 16.1 14.2 42.
Post balance sheet events The 2016 results reflect a one-off Ogden discount rate reduction to minus 0.75% impacting operating profit and profit before tax resulting from an announcement made by the Ministry of Justice on 27 February 2017.
178 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 178 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Parent Company balance sheet As at 31 December 2016 2016 2015 Notes m m Assets Investment in subsidiary undertakings 2 3,084.3 3,067.4 Other receivables 3 571.4 540.8 Current tax assets 4 0.8 Derivative financial instruments 5 1.7 0.4 Financial investments 6 134.8 7.1 Cash and cash equivalents 7 157.5 29.8 Total assets 3,950.5 3,645.5 Equity 3,437.5 3,131.6 Liabilities Subordinated liabilities 9 504.5 503.9 Derivative financial instruments 5 1.7 0.4 Trade and other payables 10 6.4 6.6 Deferred tax liabilities 4 0.4 Current tax liabilities 4 3.0 Total liabilities 513.0 513.9 Total equity and liabilities 3,950.5 3,645.5 The attached notes on pages 182 to 186 form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 6 March 2017.
They were signed on its behalf by: John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer Direct Line Insurance Group plc Registration No.
com 179 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2016 2016 2015 m m Profit for the year 764.9 539.5 Other comprehensive income loss Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement: Cash flow hedges 1.2 Fair value gain on AFS investments 0.5 Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 0.1 Other comprehensive income loss net of tax 0.4 1.2 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company 765.3 538.3 Parent Company statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December 2016 Foreign Share-based exchange Total Share Capital payment Revaluation translation Retained shareholder 1 capital reserves reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2015 150.0 1,450.0 9.5 1.2 1,647.5 3,258.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.2 539.5 538.3 Dividends paid 666.0 666.0 Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 12.1 12.1 Shares distributed by employee trusts 11.0 11.0 Balance at 31 December 2015 150.0 1,450.0 10.6 1,521.0 3,131.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.4 764.9 765.3 Dividends paid 450.6 450.6 Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 16.8 16.8 Shares distributed by employee trusts 25.6 25.6 Balance at 31 December 2016 150.0 1,450.0 1.8 0.4 1,835.3 3,437.5 Note: 1.
There are no non-distributable reserves within retained earnings.
The attached notes on pages 182 to 186 form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
180 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 180 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Parent Company cash flow statement For the year ended 31 December 2016 2016 2015 Notes m m Net cash used by operating activities 12 5.1 3.1 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received on loans to subsidiary undertakings 47.6 47.5 Interest received on AFS debt securities 4.7 Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings 780.6 671.0 Net increase in loans advanced to subsidiary undertakings 28.8 21.8 Capital contribution to subsidiary undertakings 16.9 225.0 Disposal of assets held for sale 224.3 Proceeds on disposal maturity of AFS debt securities 5.0 Purchase of AFS debt securities 136.9 2.0 Net cash generated from investing activities 655.3 694.0 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 11 450.6 666.0 Purchase of employee trust shares 25.6 Finance costs 46.3 46.3 Net cash used by financing activities 522.5 712.3 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 127.7 21.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 7 29.8 51.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 7 157.5 29.8 The attached notes on pages 182 to 186 form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
