Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 87 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Group Accounting Policies For the year ended 30 September 2016 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership accordance with IFRS as endorsed by the EU and in accordance transfers to the customer, which depending on individual with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies customer terms, is at the time of despatch, delivery or upon reporting under IFRS.
The accounting policies set out below have formal customer acceptance.
Provision is made for returns been consistently applied in 2016 and the comparative year.
Service revenue received in advance is deferred and recognised on a pro rata basis over the period There were no new Standards, amendments or interpretations of the contract.
to existing Standards which have been published and endorsed by the EU and which have a significant impact on the results, 1.6 Employee benefits financial position or presentation of the consolidated financial The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the statements for the year ended 30 September 2016. defined contribution and defined benefit type.
The defined benefit plan is operated by Diploma Holdings PLC and is closed 1.1 Basis of preparation to the accrual of further benefits.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared a Defined contribution pension plans: Contributions to the under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments which are held at fair value.
The Groups defined contribution schemes are recognised as consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an employee benefit expense when they fall due.
a going concern basis, as discussed on pages 62 and 63. b Defined benefit pension plan: The deficit recognised in the 1.2 Basis of consolidation balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension plan The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the statements of the Company and entities controlled by the balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of actuaries using the projected unit cost method and by an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The assets, discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest liabilities and results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of rates on high quality corporate bonds.
The pension expense for the Groups defined benefit plan is recognised as follows: during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the i Within the Consolidated Income Statement: effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments where the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment is recognised in operating profit.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into Interest cost on the net deficit in the plan calculated line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group liability at the start of the annual reporting period.
ii Within the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Comprehensive Income Other Comprehensive Income : Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and Non-controlling interests, defined as minority interests, in the liabilities of the plan arising from actual experience and any changes in assumptions at the end of the year.
net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business The Group has adopted a policy of recognising all actuarial combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since gains and losses for its defined benefit plan in the period in which they occur, outside the Consolidated Income the date of the combination.
Statement, but in Other Comprehensive Income.
1.3 Acquisitions Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method c Share-based payments: Equity-settled transactions which are where the Executive Directors and certain senior as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Goodwill at the acquisition date employees receive a part of their remuneration in the form represents the cost of the business combination excluding of shares in the Company, or rights over shares are measured acquisition related costs, which are expensed as incurred plus at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of market based the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree in excess of the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible measures, such as the Total Shareholder Return TSR assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
targets upon which vesting of part of the award is conditional, and is expensed to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, Minority interests may be initially measured at fair value or, alternatively, at the minority interests proportionate share of with a corresponding credit to equity.
The cumulative the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
expense recognised is adjusted to take account of shares The choice of measurement basis is made for each business forfeited by executives who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market related combination separately.
performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely that 1.4 Divestments shares will vest.
For the market-based measure, the Directors The results and cash flows of major lines of businesses that have have used a predicted future value model to determine fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
been divested have been classified as discontinued businesses.
There were no discontinued operations in either 2016 or 2015.
The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust for the 1.5 Revenue recognition granting of shares to Executives.
The cost of shares in the Company purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust are Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services supplied to shown as a deduction from equity.
customers, after deducting sales allowances and value added taxes: revenue receivable for services supplied to customers, as opposed to goods, is less than ca.
For more information, please visit: www.
aspx 88 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Group Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2016 1.7 Foreign currencies excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups The individual financial statements of each Group entity are liability for current tax, including UK corporation tax and prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency overseas tax, is calculated using rates that have been enacted of the primary economic environment in which that entity or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability translated into UK sterling, which is the presentational currency method.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between of the Group.
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency: computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
probable that taxable profits will be available against which At each subsequent balance sheet date: deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Temporary differences arise primarily from the recognition of the deficit i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange on the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the difference differences arising on the settlement or retranslation between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation and of monetary items are recognised in the Consolidated for short term timing differences where a provision held against receivables or inventory is not deductible for taxation purposes.
ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if foreign currency are not retranslated.
the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial iii Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the date the fair value was determined.
Where a gain or loss tax profit, nor the accounting profit.
on non-monetary items is recognised directly in equity, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where recognised directly in equity and conversely, where a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary Consolidated Income Statement, any exchange difference and it is possible that the temporary difference will component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the not reverse in the foreseeable future.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, Consolidated Income Statement.
as the Group controls the dividend policies of its subsidiaries.
b Translation from functional currency to presentational currency: Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Groups presentational currency, its results and settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the Consolidated financial position are translated into the presentational Income Statement, except when the item on which the tax or currency as follows: charge is credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The carrying amount i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date ii Income and expense items are translated at average and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset an average rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the when there is a legally enforceable right to enforce current tax transaction rate is used.
assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in Other income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
Comprehensive Income: these cumulative exchange differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income 1.9 Property, plant and equipment Statement in the period in which the foreign operation is Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less disposed of.
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred c Net investment in foreign operations: in bringing the asset into use, but excluding interest.
All repairs Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms and maintenance expenditure is charged to the Consolidated part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign Income Statement in the period in which it is incurred.
operation are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the separate financial statements of the Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other items of reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate.
property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available In the consolidated financial statements such exchange for use and is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less residual value of differences are initially recognised in Other Comprehensive Income as a separate component of equity and subsequently the asset, over its estimated useful life as follows: recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on disposal of the net investment.
Freehold property between 20 and 50 years Leasehold property term of the lease 1.8 Taxation plant and machinery between The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and Plant and equipment 3 and 7 years deferred tax.
IT hardware between 3 and 5 years fixtures and fittings between Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs 5 and 15 years from profit before taxation as reported in the Consolidated Hospital field equipment 5 years Income Statement.
Taxable profit excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and also Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 89 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.9 Property, plant and equipment continued 1.11 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its each financial year end.
Assets held under finance leases are recoverable amount.
depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately higher of: i its fair value less costs to sell: and ii its value in use: its to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, discounted arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific Consolidated Income Statement.
to the asset or cash-generating unit.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
1.10 Intangible assets All intangible assets, excluding goodwill arising on a business a Impairment of goodwill combination, are stated at their amortised cost or fair value less Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a any provision for impairment.
cash-generating unit: cash-generating units for this purpose are the Groups three Sectors which represent the lowest a Research and development costs level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored by Research expenditure is written off as incurred.
Development the Groups Board of Directors for internal and management costs are written off as incurred unless forecast revenues for purposes.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has a particular project exceed attributable forecast development been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may costs in which case they are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated useful life.
are capitalised as intangible assets unless physical assets, such as tooling, exist when they are classified as property, If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is plant and equipment.
allocated first to reduce the goodwill attributable to the b Computer software costs cash-generating unit.
Impairment losses cannot be Where computer software is not integral to an item of subsequently reversed.
property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised as other intangible assets.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line b Impairment of other tangible and intangible assets basis over its useful economic life of between three and Other tangible and intangible assets are reviewed for seven years.
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
c Acquired intangible assets business combinations Impairment losses and any subsequent reversals are Intangible assets that may be acquired as a result of a recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
business combination, include, but are not limited to, 1.12 Inventories customer lists, supplier lists, databases, technology and software and patents that can be separately measured at fair Inventories are stated at the lower of cost generally calculated value, on a reliable basis, are separately recognised on on a weighted average cost basis and net realisable value, after acquisition at the fair value, together with the associated making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving inventory.
Cost comprises direct materials, duty and freight-in costs.
Amortisation is charged on a straightline basis to the Consolidated Income Statement over the expected useful economic lives.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Fair values of customer and supplier relationships on larger acquisitions are valued using a discounted cash flow model: databases are valued using a replacement cost model.
For 1.13 Financial instruments smaller acquisitions, intangible assets are assessed using Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the historical experience of similar transactions.
contractual provisions of the instrument.
d Goodwill business combinations Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents a Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration over the aggregate fair value of the identifiable carry any interest and are reduced by a charge for impairment intangible, tangible and current assets and net of the for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Such impairment aggregate fair value of the liabilities including contingent charges are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
liabilities of businesses acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is b Trade payables subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are initially impairment losses.
Transaction costs are expensed and measured at their nominal value.
are not included in the cost of acquisition.
aspx 90 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Group Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2016 1.13 Financial instruments continued 1.14 Investments available for sale financial assets c Cash and cash equivalents The investment held by the Group comprises equity shares which Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, interest are not held for the purposes of equity trading and in accordance bearing deposits, bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid with IAS 39 is classified as available for sale.
They are initially investments with original maturities of three months or less recognised at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank in Other Comprehensive Income.
overdrafts are repayable on demand and can form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
1.15 Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms d Put options held by minority interests of the lease transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of The purchase price of shares to be acquired under options ownership to the lessee.
Leases include hire purchase contracts held by minority shareholders in the Groups subsidiaries are which have characteristics similar to finance or operating leases.
calculated by reference to the estimated profitability of the All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals relevant subsidiary at the time of exercise, using a multiple payable under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated based formula.
The net present value of the estimated future Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the payments under these put options is shown as a financial relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive liability.
The corresponding entry is recognised in equity as a to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line deduction against retained earnings.
At the end of each year, basis over the expected lease term.
the estimate of the financial liability is reassessed and any change in value is recognised in the Consolidated Income 1.16 Other liabilities Statement, as part of finance income or expense.
Where Other liabilities are recognised when the Group has legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is the liability is in a foreign currency, any change in the value of the liability resulting from changes in exchange rates is possible that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Other liabilities are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
e Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group holds derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its foreign 1.17 Dividends currency exposure.
These derivatives are designated as cash The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the AGM: interim dividends are charged in the period they flow hedges.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequent changes 1.18 Share capital and reserves Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives which are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in recognised in equity in the hedging reserve and in Other equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The Group Comprehensive Income, and are reclassified to profit or loss also maintains the following reserves: on maturity of the derivative.
Changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives which are ineffective or do not a Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all meet the criteria for hedge accounting in accordance with foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of IAS 39 are recognised immediately in the Consolidated the financial statements of foreign businesses.
b Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged value of cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be an effective hedge.
items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on c Retained earnings reserve The retained earnings reserve an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in comprises total cumulative recognised income and expense attributable to shareholders.
Bonus issues of share capital hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
and dividends to shareholders are also charged directly to this reserve.
In addition the cost of acquiring shares in the No derivative contracts have been designated as fair value Company and the liability to provide those shares to employees, is accounted for in this reserve.
hedges or net investment hedges.
f Borrowings Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, consideration received.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Borrowings are classified as non-current including any directly attributable incremental costs net of when the repayment date is more than 12 months from the income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the period-end date or where they are drawn on a facility with Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently more than 12 months to expiry.
sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to satisfy share awards granted to Directors under the Groups share schemes.
The Trustee purchases the Companys shares on the open market using loans made by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 91 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.19 Related parties Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are There are no related party transactions other than with the based on managements expectations of future volumes and Executive Directors who are considered to be key management margins based on plans and best estimates of the productivity that are required to be disclosed in accordance with IAS 24. of the assets in their current condition.
Future cash flows Details of their remuneration are given in the Remuneration therefore exclude benefits from major expansion projects Committee Report on pages 48 to 61. requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure has not been approved at the balance sheet date.
1.20 Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective Future cash flows are discounted using discount rates based on The IASB has published a number of new standards, a market derived weighted average cost of capital, adjusted if amendments and interpretations to existing standards which appropriate for circumstances specific to the asset being tested.
are not yet effective, but will be mandatory for the Groups The weighted average cost of capital is impacted by estimates accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2016.
Set of interest rates and equity returns and is reviewed on an out below are those which are considered most relevant to annual basis.
the Group: The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 appropriate period over which to view the future results of is effective for the Group for the year ended 30 September the Groups businesses for this purpose.
Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts 2019.
The Group is completing an impact assessment on the consolidated financial statements but expects the impact to could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the be isolated to the Life Sciences Sector.
IFRS 16 Leases: IFRS 16 is effective for the Group for the 1.21.2 Accounting for acquisitions year ended 30 September 2020 and the Group anticipates commencing an impact assessment on the consolidated When the Group makes a large acquisition it recognises the financial statements towards the end of 2017. identifiable assets and liabilities, including intangible assets, at fair value, with the difference between the fair value of net assets acquired and the fair value of consideration paid The following new or amended standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups consolidated comprising goodwill.
The most significant assets acquired are financial statements: intangible assets predominantly customer relationships : the key assumptions used to determine the valuation of intangible assets acquired are the forecast cash flows, the discount rate IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1 IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods and customer attrition.
Customer relationships are valued using of depreciation and amortisation a discounted cash flow model.
Acquisitions often comprise an IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accruals element of deferred consideration and may include a minority interest, which are subject to put options.
These put options IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses are also required to be fair valued at the date of acquisition.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Deferred consideration is fair valued based on Directors estimate of future performance of the acquired entity.
1.21 Critical accounting estimates and judgements In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements in 1.21.3 Inventory and trade receivable provisions accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1.1 to In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to 1.20 above, management has used estimates and judgements establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, principally inventory and trade receivables.
Impairment to establish the amounts at which certain items are recorded.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those which charges are made against obsolete or slow-moving inventories, have the greatest impact on the financial statements and require bad or doubtful receivables.
the most difficult and subjective judgements about matters that The decision to make an impairment charge is based on the are inherently uncertain.
Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and expectations of future events facts available at the time the consolidated financial statements that management believe to be reasonable.
However given the are approved and are also determined by using profiles, based judgemental nature of such estimates, actual results could be on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and trade receivables categories.
In estimating the collectability of trade different from the assumptions used.
The critical accounting estimates and judgements are set out below: receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each 1.21.1 Goodwill impairment customer and related ageing of the past due balances.
Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance be able to meet its financial obligations due to deterioration of of the Group over future periods.
To assist in making this its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment of the 1.21.4 Future purchases of minority interests carrying value of the Groups capitalised goodwill, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the value in use to The Groups financial statements include a financial liability for the Group of the capitalised goodwill.
This calculation is usually the net present value of the expected amount that it will pay in based on projecting future cash flows over a five-year period future years to acquire the outstanding shares held by minority shareholders in the Groups subsidiaries.
This amount is based and using a perpetuity to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a current value on the Directors estimate of the future profitability of the value in use.
The fair value less costs to sell of an asset is relevant subsidiary and the assumption that year end exchange used if this results in an amount in excess of value in use.
rates will remain consistent until the exercise of the option.
Any changes to the estimated profitability of the relevant business and or changes to the assumption of the relevant exchange rate, will change the estimate of this financial liability.
