Committee reports Audit Committee report Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging the effectiveness of the Groups systems of financial and other controls.
The Committee monitors the work and effectiveness of the Groups internal and external auditors and actuaries.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements Andrew Palmer and any other formal announcement relating to its Chair of the financial performance.
Audit Committee review and monitor the reserving process and recommend the reserves to the Board.
continually review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Areas of focus in the reporting period Groups internal financial controls and internal control systems, and the monitoring procedures.
The Committee reviews and monitors the reserving monitor and evaluate the Group Audit functions process.
The Committee challenged the key reserving performance.
assumptions and judgements, emerging trends, monitor and manage the relationship with the External movements, and analysis of uncertainties underlying the Auditor, including agreeing the external audit fee, assessing Actuarial Best Estimate ABE and Management Best its effectiveness, independence and managing any tender Estimate MBE of technical provisions.
process for the audit services contract.
The Committee provides oversight of the accounting The Audit Committees main role and responsibilities are estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the set out in written terms of reference and are available at financial statements.
A particular area of focus for 2016 www.
co. uk termsofreference was the level of change and the impact on intangible asset carrying values.
Following the annual review of Committee composition, skills and the intangible assets, which was considered and challenged by the Committee, an impairment of experience and meetings in the year intangible assets of 39.3 million was agreed.
The Committee comprises three independent NEDs: Andrew As part of the Committees review of the Financial Palmer, Jane Hanson and Clare Thompson.
You can find their Reporting Control Framework FRCF it looked at the biographical information on pages 50 and 51.
In line with processes which are used to produce financial asset the 2016 amendments to the Code, the Audit Committee as a valuations.
In 2016 the Committee asked for details of whole is deemed to have competence relevant to the insurance the processes that were followed to give it assurance and financial services sectors in which the Group operates.
that the valuations were appropriate.
All Committee members are members of the Institute of Chartered The PRA approved the Group to use its PIM in Accountants in England and Wales.
They also have recent and June 2016.
Following approval, the Group published relevant financial experience, enabling them to contribute diverse its Solvency II own funds assessment.
In addition, under expertise to the Committees proceedings.
To keep their skills Solvency II the Group is required to submit Quantitative current and relevant, in addition to Board training, members of Reporting Templates to the PRA.
The Solvency II the Committee have received training during the period on related information has been incorporated into the matters including PPOs, reserving processes and the Solvency II Groups FRCF and the Committee monitors the integrity balance sheet.
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2016.
During the year the Ministry of Justice published a Two sub-committee meetings were also held to approve the consultation regarding the assessment of soft tissue injury Groups trading updates for the first and third quarters of 2016. for bodily injury claims.
The Committee reviewed and Three additional meetings were held to review drafts of the challenged managements assessment of the impact of Solvency II narrative reports and to review the Groups Solvency the proposed new process on both claims experience II balance sheet following receipt of internal model approval.
In relation to Group Audit, members of the Committee The table below shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: requested a presentation to explore, and provide an opportunity to challenge, how the function is developing Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance its use of data analytics.
In the light of a significant level Andrew Palmer Chair 5 of 5 100% of change within the Group Audit plans, the Committee also requested and received additional analysis to Jane Hanson 5 of 5 100% evidence that an appropriate breadth and depth of Clare Thompson 5 of 5 100% internal audit coverage was being maintained across the Group.
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each scheduled Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports Audit Committee report Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Main activities during the year Case study: Periodic Payment The Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging At every scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee Orders the effectiveness of the Groups systems of financial and other receives reports on financial reporting, reserves, internal controls.
The Committee monitors the work and effectiveness controls and Group Audit.
You can find out more about this The Committee requested an in depth review of PPO of the Groups internal and external auditors and actuaries.
reserving methodology and in September 2016 the Committee met to discuss a report by management.
The The Committees main responsibilities are to: Financial reporting topics covered were: emerging experience: key judgements The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial and assumptions: industry benchmarking: regulation monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements statements of the Group, and any other formal announcement and standards: and long-term financial projections.
The and any other formal announcement relating to its relating to its financial performance.
Solvency II related Committee focused its efforts on the recommendations of the financial performance.
information has been incorporated into the Groups financial Groups Chief Actuary in the ABE and in related reserve review and monitor the reserving process and recommend reporting processes.
margins proposed by the CFO.
the reserves to the Board.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the preliminary The Committee reviewed trends in the claims experience continually review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Areas of focus in the reporting period announcement of the Groups 2015 financial results, the versus industry experience to assess the Groups performance Groups internal financial controls and internal control 2015 Annual Report & Accounts, and the 2016 Half Year in these complex cases.
It concluded that the Groups systems, and the monitoring procedures.
The Committee then recommended them to the Board experience was broadly consistent with the market and that The Committee reviews and monitors the reserving monitor and evaluate the Group Audit functions for approval.
its claims handling approach to settling PPOs was process.
It challenged, and was assumptions and judgements, emerging trends, The review process focused on critical accounting policies monitor and manage the relationship with the External satisfied with, the data collection process and methods for movements, and analysis of uncertainties underlying the and practices, emphasising those requiring a major element Auditor, including agreeing the external audit fee, assessing ensuring accuracy.
Actuarial Best Estimate ABE and Management Best of judgement.
The review also considered the going concern its effectiveness, independence and managing any tender Estimate MBE of technical provisions.
assumptions and viability statement, valuation of assets and Recognising the need for significant expert judgement process for the audit services contract.
impairment reviews, reserving provisions, unusual transactions, The Committee provides oversight of the accounting in such long-term cash flow projections the Committee clarity of disclosures and significant audit adjustments.
This The Audit Committees main role and responsibilities are estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the challenged the assumptions, specifically: life expectations: included the Solvency II balance sheet and certain Quantitative set out in written terms of reference and are available at financial statements.
A particular area of focus for 2016 inflation assumptions: discounting: and reinsurance.
co. uk termsofreference was the level of change and the impact on intangible It discussed the sensitivities to alternative values and asset carrying values.
Following the annual review of approaches, and considered the long-term economic The Committee also advised the Board whether the financial Committee composition, skills and the intangible assets, which was considered and assumptions including past data and the compatibility of statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and challenged by the Committee, an impairment of assumptions for International Financial Reporting Standards experience and meetings in the year understandable and provided sufficient information to enable intangible assets of 39.3 million was agreed.
The Committee comprises three independent NEDs: Andrew the reader to assess the Groups position and performance, As part of the Committees review of the Financial Palmer, Jane Hanson and Clare Thompson.
You can find their business model and strategy.
It discussed the strength of the underlying assumptions with the Reporting Control Framework FRCF it looked at the biographical information on pages 50 and 51.
In line with Groups External Auditor and independent external actuaries When considering the Annual Report & Accounts for 2016, the processes which are used to produce financial asset the 2016 amendments to the Code, the Audit Committee as a and concluded that, whilst the ABE appeared robust in the Committee focused on the significant risks and judgements which valuations.
In 2016 the Committee asked for details of whole is deemed to have competence relevant to the insurance face of significant uncertainties about the long-term future, they could be material to the financial statements.
These included: the processes that were followed to give it assurance and financial services sectors in which the Group operates.
It was satisfied that reserve margins held that the valuations were appropriate.
specifically for PPOs were proportionate and justified because Reserve valuation The Committee reviewed the actuarial best All Committee members are members of the Institute of Chartered not all risks could be captured in the actuarial analysis.
The The PRA approved the Group to use its PIM in estimates of the level of reserves, including the impact of the Accountants in England and Wales.
They also have recent and members sought and were given assurance that the additional June 2016.
Following approval, the Group published reduction in the Ogden discount rate from 2.5% to minus relevant financial experience, enabling them to contribute diverse costs of current and future PPOs from existing business cohorts its Solvency II own funds assessment.
In addition, under 0.75% following the Lord Chancellors review of the discount expertise to the Committees proceedings.
To keep their skills were being recognised.
Solvency II the Group is required to submit Quantitative rate for personal injury claims.
External consultants participate current and relevant, in addition to Board training, members of Reporting Templates to the PRA.
The Solvency II independently in the annual review.
Further information on the Committee have received training during the period on The Committee requested a long-term projection of the related information has been incorporated into the reserves is provided in this report.
matters including PPOs, reserving processes and the Solvency II Groups balance sheet under different assumed reinsurance Groups FRCF and the Committee monitors the integrity balance sheet.
This was presented by management and of the information.
Valuation of investments not held at fair value The showed how liabilities to PPOs would gradually accumulate Committee considered reports on the judgements applied to the The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2016.
During the year the Ministry of Justice published a over time as expected and more slowly under lower carrying value of the Groups investments and the basis for the Two sub-committee meetings were also held to approve the consultation regarding the assessment of soft tissue injury retention levels.
The Committee was satisfied that the longvaluation.
Groups trading updates for the first and third quarters of 2016. for bodily injury claims.
The Committee reviewed and term trend in the Groups balance sheet was reasonable Three additional meetings were held to review drafts of the challenged managements assessment of the impact of and within risk appetite and that exposure to reinsurance Change and IT The Committee considered major change Solvency II narrative reports and to review the Groups Solvency the proposed new process on both claims experience bad debts was being appropriately captured.
II balance sheet following receipt of internal model approval.
The Committee considered reports prepared by management In relation to Group Audit, members of the Committee The table below shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: on the significant estimates and judgements that were material requested a presentation to explore, and provide an to the financial statements and challenged the judgements opportunity to challenge, how the function is developing Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance being made, in particular in relation to the non-cash intangible its use of data analytics.
In the light of a significant level asset impairment of 39.3 million.
This relates to capitalised Andrew Palmer Chair 5 of 5 100% of change within the Group Audit plans, the Committee software development costs for ongoing IT projects primarily also requested and received additional analysis to Jane Hanson 5 of 5 100% relating to the development of new systems.
The Committee evidence that an appropriate breadth and depth of Clare Thompson 5 of 5 100% also discussed these matters with the External Auditor.
internal audit coverage was being maintained across the Group.
64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 www.
com 65 Committee reports continued Reserves Additional information The Committee reviews and challenges the key assumptions The Committee has unrestricted access to management and and judgements, emerging trends, movements, and analysis external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied that of uncertainties underlying the ABE of technical provisions.
in 2016 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information At the same time, the Committee considers and challenges to perform its responsibilities effectively.
the appropriateness of the CFOs proposals for managements The CEO, CFO, Chief Risk Officer CRO, Group Financial best estimate of reserves.
These are informed by actuarial Controller and Head of External Reporting are invited to attend analysis, wider commercial and risk management insights, Audit Committee meetings.
The Actuarial Director, external and principles of consistency from period to period.
actuarial advisers, External Auditor and Group Head of Audit The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, are also invited to attend meetings and meet privately with the informed by emerging internal and external issues.
Audit Committee, in the absence of management.
The Chief Operating Officer is also invited to attend appropriate sections It also considers an appropriate balance between internal and of Audit Committee meetings.
Consultants appointed to provide actuarial reviews of reserves are subject to approval by the External audit Committee.
The external actuarial review of reserves requiring The Committee is responsible for overseeing the External most judgement was carried out by  Auditor and agreeing the audit fee.
This also involves 1 LLP for the Directors of the Company and its relevant affiliates.
approving the scope of the External Auditors annual plan.
After reviewing the actuarial best estimate and managements During the year, the Committee discussed the position on its best estimate of reserves, the Committee recommends them to external audit services contract and examined a number of the Board.
options regarding the timing of tendering for the external audit, including the mandatory rotation of the Groups audit firm, Internal control and Group Audit taking into account the Code and the reforms of the audit market During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy by the Competition and Markets Authority and the EU.
This and effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
included whether it was appropriate to tender the external audit contract for the year ending 31 December 2018.
The Company The Groups FRCF is part of its wider internal controls system.
has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services It addresses financial reporting risks.
The Board delegates for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of supervision of the FRCF to the Audit Committee.
The CFO Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee is responsible for the FRCF on a day-to-day basis.
During 2016, the Committee received regular reports on the A number of factors were taken into account, including FRCF and the testing of it.
Part of those reports focused on anticipated business changes, regulatory developments such control deficiencies and the mitigating actions taken.
as the implementation of Solvency II and the approval of the Groups use of its own Internal Model, the expected new The Committee considered the Groups internal controls and insurance accounting standard for implementation in 2021 processes for identifying and responding to risks.
and the appointment of a new audit partner by Deloitte LLP The Committee provides oversight of Group Audits work and Deloitte during 2016, following the normal audit partner seeks to ensure it adopts industry best practice appropriately.
The Committee concluded that it was not The Group Head of Audits primary reporting line is to the appropriate to tender the external audit contract for the 2018 Chair of the Committee.
The secondary reporting line, for year end and, subject to continued effective performance day-to-day administration, is to the CFO.
Group Audit provides by Deloitte, would review the position again early in 2017. the Committee with independent and objective reports on the At that point a decision will be made whether to tender the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups governance, risk external audit contract for the year ended 31 December 2019 management and internal controls.
The Committee approves or defer until a later date.
The current audit partner is Colin Group Audits annual plan and receives quarterly reports Rawlings who was appointed in advance of the 2016 audit.
detailing internal audit activity, key findings, management Colin has had no interaction with the Financial Reporting responses, and proposed action plans.
Group Audit also Councils Corporate Reporting Review team.
monitors that these actions are completed.
The Committee There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys also approves the Group Audit Charter.
choice of external auditor and no auditor liability agreement During the year, the Committee assessed whether the has been entered into.
Equally, any recommendation to Group Audit function was effective and concluded that it was.
reappoint Deloitte as auditor of the Company depends on This included the Committee satisfying itself that the Group continued satisfactory performance.
Audit function has the appropriate resources.
The relevant affiliates are U K Insurance Limited and Churchill Insurance Company Limited 66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued Reserves Additional information Auditor independence and non-audit Effectiveness of the external audit The Committee reviews and challenges the key assumptions The Committee has unrestricted access to management and services policy process and reappointing Deloitte and judgements, emerging trends, movements, and analysis external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied that as External Auditors The Group has an Independence of External Audit Minimum of uncertainties underlying the ABE of technical provisions.
in 2016 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information Standard.
This establishes parameters for preventing or mitigating In 2016, the Committee assessed the External Auditors At the same time, the Committee considers and challenges to perform its responsibilities effectively.
anything that compromises the External Auditors independence effectiveness.
This was in addition to regularly questioning the the appropriateness of the CFOs proposals for managements or objectivity, by virtue of it providing the Group with non-audit External Auditor during its meetings.
The Committee assessed The CEO, CFO, Chief Risk Officer CRO, Group Financial best estimate of reserves.
These are informed by actuarial services.
The Committee reviews and refreshes the standard the External Auditor through: a detailed questionnaire Controller and Head of External Reporting are invited to attend analysis, wider commercial and risk management insights, annually to make sure it remains appropriate.
The standard is completed by key stakeholders: discussing matters with the Audit Committee meetings.
compliant with the FRCs implementation of the EU Audit Regulation CFO: formally reviewing Deloittes independence: and actuarial advisers, External Auditor and Group Head of Audit and Directive in adopting the list of prohibited non-audit services assessing whether it fulfilled the agreed audit plan.
The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, are also invited to attend meetings and meet privately with the which cannot be provided to the Group.
informed by emerging internal and external issues.
The Chief The Committee, after taking into account all of the information Operating Officer is also invited to attend appropriate sections Before each financial year, the Committee formally approves a available, concluded that Deloitte had performed its It also considers an appropriate balance between internal and of Audit Committee meetings.
list of audit and non-audit services that the External Auditor will obligations effectively and appropriately as External Auditor external actuarial review.
Consultants appointed to provide provide.
This is in accordance with the Minimum Standard.
actuarial reviews of reserves are subject to approval by the External audit Committee.
The external actuarial review of reserves requiring The Group has delegated authority to the Audit Committees The Committee is responsible for overseeing the External The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board most judgement was carried out by  Chair to approve any non-audit services costing up to Auditor and agreeing the audit fee.
This also involves that the Group reappoint Deloitte as External Auditor.
1 LLP for the Directors of the Company and its relevant affiliates.
Non-audit services costing over 100,000 approving the scope of the External Auditors annual plan.
The Group will put a resolution regarding this to shareholders require the Committees approval.
At least twice a year, the at the 2017 AGM.
After reviewing the actuarial best estimate and managements During the year, the Committee discussed the position on its Committee receives and reviews a report on all consultancy best estimate of reserves, the Committee recommends them to external audit services contract and examined a number of spending, including non-audit services.
The Audit Committees effectiveness the Board.
options regarding the timing of tendering for the external audit, A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committees During the year, the Committee approved fees of 0.4 million including the mandatory rotation of the Groups audit firm, Internal control and Group Audit performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the to Deloitte for services unrelated to audit work.
The following taking into account the Code and the reforms of the audit market year.
Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy is a breakdown of fees paid to Deloitte for the year ended by the Competition and Markets Authority and the EU.
This facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report and effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
31 December 2016. included whether it was appropriate to tender the external audit based on responses from Committee members and other contract for the year ending 31 December 2018.
Fees stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview.
After reviewing has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services m Proportion It addresses financial reporting risks.
The Board delegates and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of 1 supervision of the FRCF to the Audit Committee.
The CFO Audit fees 1.8 81.8% operating effectively and has access to sufficient resources to Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee is responsible for the FRCF on a day-to-day basis.
Total fees for audit During 2016, the Committee received regular reports on the The Board reviewed and approved this report on A number of factors were taken into account, including and other services 2.2 FRCF and the testing of it.
Part of those reports focused on 6 March 2017. anticipated business changes, regulatory developments such control deficiencies and the mitigating actions taken.
as the implementation of Solvency II and the approval of the The non-audit fee of 0.4 million related to audit assurance Groups use of its own Internal Model, the expected new services and services provided in reviewing the Companys The Committee considered the Groups internal controls and insurance accounting standard for implementation in 2021 remuneration policy, tax advisory services and an IT project.
processes for identifying and responding to risks.
and the appointment of a new audit partner by Deloitte LLP The Committee reviewed how the Group applied its Minimum Andrew Palmer The Committee provides oversight of Group Audits work and Deloitte during 2016, following the normal audit partner Standard on audit and non-audit services in 2016.
It is satisfied Chair of the Audit Committee seeks to ensure it adopts industry best practice appropriately.
The Committee concluded that it was not that the Group has adequate procedures to ensure that the The Group Head of Audits primary reporting line is to the appropriate to tender the external audit contract for the 2018 External Auditors are independent and objective.
You can find further information in note 11 to the consolidated 1.
The relevant affiliates are U K Insurance Limited and Churchill Insurance Company Limited financial statements.
66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 www.
com 67 Committee reports continued Board Risk Committee report Responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee The Committee is responsible for oversight and challenge of the Groups current and potential future risk exposures, and its strategic approach to managing risk.
The Committee recommends risk appetite and tolerance levels to the Board, and supports the Board in promoting a risk-aware culture across the Group.
Jane Hanson The Committees main responsibilities are to: Chair of the Board Risk Committee consider and recommend the Groups risk appetite, framework and tolerance to the Board for its approval.
review and approve the design and implementation of Areas of focus in the reporting period the ERMF, and the procedures for monitoring its adequacy and effectiveness.
consider the Groups risk profile relative to current and The Group received approval from the PRA for the use future Group strategy, and to risk appetite.
of its Group PIM in June 2016, successfully concluding a multi-year project.
The case study on page 69 details approve the Risk and Compliance function how the Committee provided oversight to enable the operational plans and adequacy of resourcing.
Group to meet the challenges of complying with review the governance of, and methodology and Solvency II and obtain internal model approval.
assumptions used in, the Groups Internal Economic The Committee reviewed an assessment of risk Capital Model, approve changes to the model and behaviours and attitudes undertaken jointly by the validation thereof.
Risk function and Group Audit, which covered areas review and recommend the ORSA process and report including: tone from the top: decision making: and risk to the Board.
The Committee challenged the outputs of the assessment and ensured the appropriateness of the review the Groups procedure for detecting internal and external fraud.
The Committee commended the progress made to embed and to demonstrate positive The main role and responsibilities of the BRC are set culture and behaviours in risk management.
out in written terms of reference and are available at With cyber security becoming an increasingly important www.
co. uk termsofreference area of focus for companies, the Committee closely monitored and challenged activities in relation to IT Committee composition, skills and risks, controls and resilience.
The Committee reviewed experience and meetings in the year the outputs from system penetration testing and reviews The Committee comprises three independent NEDs: of risk management and information security, and Jane Hanson, Andrew Palmer and Richard Ward.
You can challenged the first and second lines of defence on find their biographical information on pages 50 and 51. the adequacy of the remediation planning and the assessment of the materiality of the issues raised.
The BRC held six scheduled meetings in 2016.
Two The Committee was satisfied with progress made in the additional meetings were held to consider IT controls and continuing development of the IT control environment cyber risk: and a review of the Conduct Risk Management and with the oversight of the IT risks and controls by the Framework.
Additionally, the Committee held a strategy day second line of defence.
which considered the Groups approach to the management The Committee scrutinised the Pricing Control of risk, the risk oversight model and the operation of the Framework, and challenged the Groups risk appetite Three Lines of Defence model.
The table below shows for pricing events.
The Committee reviewed the outputs attendance at the scheduled meetings: of reviews undertaken by Group Audit and an external consultancy firm regarding the effectiveness and Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance sustainability of controls within the Pricing function.
The Committee ensured that management undertook Jane Hanson Chair 6 of 6 100% sufficient root cause analysis and read across of the Andrew Palmer 6 of 6 100% pricing events.
The small number of pricing issues 1,2 Richard Ward 3 of 4 75% were non-material and not systemic and the Committee 1 Clare Thompson 1 of 1 100% was satisfied with the robustness of the control 1 Priscilla Vacassin 1 of 1 100% environment within the Pricing function and the level Notes: of management focus.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend 2.
Dr. Ward was unable to attend one meeting due to an overseas business commitment that he had agreed before joining the Board 68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued Board Risk Committee report Responsibilities of the Board Risk Main activities during the year Case study: Solvency II Committee Risk monitoring The Committee is responsible for oversight and challenge At each scheduled meeting, the Committee received a report Having spent 2015 preparing for the implementation of of the Groups current and potential future risk exposures, from the CRO detailing the outputs of regular risk monitoring Solvency II, the Committees focus in 2016 was on providing and its strategic approach to managing risk.
The Committee and providing details of specific issues to the Committee.
oversight of the process leading up to the Groups approval recommends risk appetite and tolerance levels to the Board, The report was enhanced during the year to set out more from the PRA for the use of its PIM and on the calculation and supports the Board in promoting a risk-aware culture clearly the Groups current risk profile, the areas of of the SCR using the Groups IECM.
During the year, the across the Group.
management focus and the key activities being undertaken Committee received detailed presentations from management by the second line of defence to drive forward the embedding on the underlying assumptions around the IECM and The Committees main responsibilities are to: of risk management across the Group.
reviewed how the model had been constructed.
The consider and recommend the Groups risk appetite, Committee challenged both the Groups Solvency II and The Committee received regular reports regarding the three framework and tolerance to the Board for its approval.
IECM submission, including: strategic risk appetite statements: maintain capital adequacy: review and approve the design and implementation of stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity: and IECM uses, particularly in relation to investment matters Areas of focus in the reporting period the ERMF, and the procedures for monitoring its adequacy maintain stakeholder confidence.
The Committee monitored and the setting of the Groups capital risk appetite under and effectiveness.
the Groups exposure against these appetites and the lower Solvency II.
level risk appetite statements, and assessed the drivers that consider the Groups risk profile relative to current and The Group received approval from the PRA for the use The IECM change process and framework, particularly affect its risk appetite status.
The Committee reviewed and future Group strategy, and to risk appetite.
of its Group PIM in June 2016, successfully concluding in relation to the aggregation of model changes.
questioned the justification regarding the assessment of certain a multi-year project.
The case study on page 69 details approve the Risk and Compliance function The IECM validation framework, scope and process, risks and the robustness of management action plans to how the Committee provided oversight to enable the operational plans and adequacy of resourcing.
including satisfying itself that independent validation was address areas close to or outside tolerance.
Having regard Group to meet the challenges of complying with review the governance of, and methodology and focused on the most appropriate areas and there was to the extent of change being executed by management, Solvency II and obtain internal model approval.
assumptions used in, the Groups Internal Economic sufficient coverage in specific areas.
the Committee closely monitored change risk.
The Committee reviewed an assessment of risk Capital Model, approve changes to the model and The Groups SCR, including the key assumptions and behaviours and attitudes undertaken jointly by the The Committee monitored the Groups risk management and validation thereof.
dependencies within the calculation methodology such Risk function and Group Audit, which covered areas internal control systems, and reviewed their effectiveness.
This review and recommend the ORSA process and report as diversification, expert judgements, parameterisation, including: tone from the top: decision making: and risk covered all material risks, including financial, operational and to the Board.
sensitivity testing and the selection of the catastrophe management.
The Committee challenged the outputs of compliance: reviewing the net risk position after the operation model used in the IECM.
the assessment and ensured the appropriateness of the review the Groups procedure for detecting internal of controls: and considered the effectiveness of any associated and external fraud.
The Committee commended the The method and governance for calculating the Standard mitigating actions and compensating controls.
progress made to embed and to demonstrate positive Formula, and the justification of this capital requirement The main role and responsibilities of the BRC are set The Committee assessed the principal risks facing the Group, culture and behaviours in risk management.
including a comparison to the IECM SCR.
out in written terms of reference and are available at which you can find listed on pages 27 to 29.
The Committee With cyber security becoming an increasingly important The ongoing application of, and controls over, the www.
co. uk termsofreference achieved this by reviewing and challenging the Groups area of focus for companies, the Committee closely IECM including the annual exercise to compare the Material Risk Register in the context of the Groups risk monitored and challenged activities in relation to IT IECM to the Material Risk Register.
Committee composition, skills and appetite and through consideration of the risk assessment risks, controls and resilience.
The Committee reviewed contained in the CROs report that was discussed at each experience and meetings in the year the outputs from system penetration testing and reviews scheduled meeting.
The Committee comprises three independent NEDs: of risk management and information security, and Jane Hanson, Andrew Palmer and Richard Ward.
You can challenged the first and second lines of defence on On behalf of the Board, the Committee also monitored find their biographical information on pages 50 and 51. the adequacy of the remediation planning and the the Groups risk management systems, and reviewed their assessment of the materiality of the issues raised.
The monitoring and review involved examining The BRC held six scheduled meetings in 2016.
Two The Committee was satisfied with progress made in the an assessment of the control environment and material controls additional meetings were held to consider IT controls and continuing development of the IT control environment at Group level, based on directorate-level risk and control selfcyber risk: and a review of the Conduct Risk Management and with the oversight of the IT risks and controls by the assessments.
These assessments were subject to challenge Framework.
by the Risk and Group Audit functions.
which considered the Groups approach to the management The Committee scrutinised the Pricing Control of risk, the risk oversight model and the operation of the Additionally, the Committee considered other subjects in more Framework, and challenged the Groups risk appetite Three Lines of Defence model.
The table below shows detail at each scheduled meeting.
These related to: compliance for pricing events.
The Committee reviewed the outputs attendance at the scheduled meetings: and regulatory risk including oversight of the Groups regulatory of reviews undertaken by Group Audit and an external relationships: operational risk: financial risk, Solvency II and consultancy firm regarding the effectiveness and Scheduled Percentage IECM: emerging risks and risk governance.
meetings attendance sustainability of controls within the Pricing function.
Dr. Ward was unable to attend one meeting due to an overseas business commitment that he had agreed before joining the Board 68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 www.
com 69 Committee reports continued Customer Operational risk The Group puts the customer at the heart of its business, The Committee continues to oversee the development of by endeavouring to deliver on its commitments and ensure IT controls, including risks relating to IT systems stability, cyber that fairness is a natural outcome of what the Group does.
security and the internal control environment.
The Committee The Committee reviewed and challenged reports relating to assessed the level of prevention, protection and detection in the Groups conduct towards its customers, to try to ensure relation to cyber risk and the residual risk for each of the appropriate customer outcomes, the meeting of reasonable IT control areas, taking into account any compensating customer expectations and to determine that the Group was controls and or mitigating actions.
The Committee questioned operating within its defined conduct risk appetite, as set the impact of system stability issues in relation to customer by the Board.
and conduct metrics, including call abandonment rates.
The Committee also reviewed the proposed IT risk Conduct and regulatory risk appetite statements.
During the year, the Committee considered the Groups The Committee received regular updates on the Groups compliance with regulatory requirements including conduct major change programmes, including the next generation and financial crime.
In particular, the Committee reviewed of customer systems for Personal Lines and Commercial.
and challenged the effectiveness and level of embedding of The Committee monitored and examined the oversight and the Groups Conduct Risk Management Framework and the challenge of major change initiatives by the Risk function Groups approach to complaints reporting under the Financial and reviewed the outputs of the assurance work undertaken Conduct Authoritys FCA new definitions.
The Committee by the Risk function and Group Audit.
also reviewed the Groups Regulatory Governance Map and The Committee considered the Groups broader operational received updates on regulatory interactions, particularly with risk control environment and commissioned reviews by the Risk the FCA and the PRA.
function on controls relating to major third party suppliers and The Committee monitored and challenged the outputs from the execution of pricing changes.
The Committee reviewed the reviews of the effectiveness and level of embeddedness of the issues encountered with the Groups third party suppliers, and Groups Conduct Risk Management Framework, in particular challenged the depth and coverage of the assurance approach the findings of the reviews undertaken by the Risk function, and whether the monitoring was appropriately robust in relation Group Audit and an external consultancy firm.
from the Committee included a need for more emphasis on fostering good customer outcomes and greater ownership of Financial risk risk management by the first line of defence.
The Committee At each meeting, the Committee monitored the Groups probed management on the activities undertaken and planned performance against capital risk appetite through the CROs in relation to culture, and commended the activity being report.
Committee members considered risks in the strategic undertaken by the Customer Conduct Committee, which plan against risk appetite.
During the year Committee included a rolling regular monthly assessment against each members also reviewed and challenged the ORSA report of the FCAs themes on culture.
The Committee was satisfied and subsequently recommended the report for approval to the that the Groups Conduct Risk Management Framework was Board.
Questions on the ORSA included those in relation to appropriate to enable the identification and escalation of stress testing of the strategic plan, distribution risk, internal conduct risks facing the Group, and to subsequently manage model validation activity and contingent management actions.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the stress and Additionally, the Committee reviewed and challenged the scenario testing plan, and examined the outputs of the reverse outputs from conduct and compliance assurance reviews.
stress tests undertaken in relation to climate change and Following feedback from the Committee, the assurance plan change risk.
was revised to comprise a monitoring plan and a separate thematic assurance plan.
The Committee also requested that Risk governance the documentation underpinning the assurance reviews be Every year, the Committee reviews and approves the sufficiently robust from a governance and regulatory perspective.
ERMF, which includes the Groups Policies and Minimum Standards, and the Regulatory Governance Map as part of The Committee received regular reports on the Groups actions the Groups Solvency II requirements.
The Committee reviewed to prevent financial crime, including reviewing of the Annual and challenged each Group Policy and the Regulatory Financial Crime Report and the Annual Anti-Bribery and Governance Map and recommended them for approval by Corruption Report.
The Committee also considered the results from the annual Group assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control environment undertaken by each business directorate, as well as monitoring controls on an ongoing basis.
70 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 70 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued Customer Operational risk The Committee considered, challenged and approved The Board Risk Committees the Annual Risk and Compliance operational plan.
It also The Group puts the customer at the heart of its business, The Committee continues to oversee the development of effectiveness reviewed the outputs of the assessment of risk behaviours by endeavouring to deliver on its commitments and ensure IT controls, including risks relating to IT systems stability, cyber A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committees and attitudes across the Group, which is part of an ongoing that fairness is a natural outcome of what the Group does.
The Committee performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the process to drive continued improvement in risk behaviours and The Committee reviewed and challenged reports relating to assessed the level of prevention, protection and detection in year.
Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School attitudes by providing feedback on current state, highlighting the Groups conduct towards its customers, to try to ensure relation to cyber risk and the residual risk for each of the facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report areas of good practice and areas for focus.
appropriate customer outcomes, the meeting of reasonable IT control areas, taking into account any compensating based on responses from Committee members and other customer expectations and to determine that the Group was controls and or mitigating actions.
The Committee questioned stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview.
After reviewing Whistleblowing operating within its defined conduct risk appetite, as set the impact of system stability issues in relation to customer and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it The Committee reviews arrangements by which employees by the Board.
was operating effectively and has access to sufficient may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible The Committee also reviewed the proposed IT risk resources to perform its duties.
Conduct and regulatory risk improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters appetite statements.
The Committee also reviews reports During the year, the Committee considered the Groups The Board reviewed and approved this report on The Committee received regular updates on the Groups relating to Whistleblowing to ensure arrangements are in compliance with regulatory requirements including conduct 6 March 2017. major change programmes, including the next generation place for the proportionate and independent investigation and financial crime.
of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
and challenged the effectiveness and level of embedding of The Committee monitored and examined the oversight and Group Audit undertook an audit in the first quarter of 2016 the Groups Conduct Risk Management Framework and the challenge of major change initiatives by the Risk function which concluded that the Whistleblowing process was Groups approach to complaints reporting under the Financial and reviewed the outputs of the assurance work undertaken adequately designed, operating effectively and met the new Conduct Authoritys FCA new definitions.
also reviewed the Groups Regulatory Governance Map and The Committee considered the Groups broader operational Chair of the Board Risk Committee received updates on regulatory interactions, particularly with Remuneration risk control environment and commissioned reviews by the Risk the FCA and the PRA.
function on controls relating to major third party suppliers and During the year, the Committee and the Remuneration The Committee monitored and challenged the outputs from the execution of pricing changes.
The Committee reviewed the Committee held a joint meeting.
This was to ensure the reviews of the effectiveness and level of embeddedness of the issues encountered with the Groups third party suppliers, and Groups remuneration arrangements were still appropriate in Groups Conduct Risk Management Framework, in particular challenged the depth and coverage of the assurance approach the light of regulatory developments and did not encourage the findings of the reviews undertaken by the Risk function, and whether the monitoring was appropriately robust in relation excessive risk-taking.
As part of this review, the joint Group Audit and an external consultancy firm.
Committee also considered the Groups preparedness for from the Committee included a need for more emphasis on Solvency II regulations regarding remuneration.
This followed fostering good customer outcomes and greater ownership of Financial risk published requirements, including how the Group would risk management by the first line of defence.
The Committee assess the performance of individuals in control functions.
At each meeting, the Committee monitored the Groups probed management on the activities undertaken and planned performance against capital risk appetite through the CROs in relation to culture, and commended the activity being Additional information report.
During the year Committee To help discharge its duties, the Committee has unrestricted included a rolling regular monthly assessment against each members also reviewed and challenged the ORSA report access to management and external advisers.
It is satisfied of the FCAs themes on culture.
The Committee was satisfied and subsequently recommended the report for approval to the that during 2016 it received sufficient, reliable and timely that the Groups Conduct Risk Management Framework was Board.
Questions on the ORSA included those in relation to information to perform its responsibilities effectively.
appropriate to enable the identification and escalation of stress testing of the strategic plan, distribution risk, internal conduct risks facing the Group, and to subsequently manage The CEO, CFO, CRO, Group Head of Audit, General model validation activity and contingent management actions.
Counsel and a representative from the External Auditor The Committee reviewed and challenged the stress and are invited to attend Committee meetings.
In addition to Additionally, the Committee reviewed and challenged the scenario testing plan, and examined the outputs of the reverse regular one-to-one meetings with the Chair, the CRO also outputs from conduct and compliance assurance reviews.
stress tests undertaken in relation to climate change and met privately with the Committee without management Following feedback from the Committee, the assurance plan change risk.
The Committee also requested that The Committee also invites the Director of Group Regulatory Risk governance the documentation underpinning the assurance reviews be Risk and Compliance, Director of Financial Risk and Enterprise Every year, the Committee reviews and approves the sufficiently robust from a governance and regulatory perspective.
Risk Director to appropriate sections of its meetings.
ERMF, which includes the Groups Policies and Minimum Standards, and the Regulatory Governance Map as part of The Committee received regular reports on the Groups actions The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee the Groups Solvency II requirements.
The Committee reviewed to prevent financial crime, including reviewing of the Annual meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
and challenged each Group Policy and the Regulatory Financial Crime Report and the Annual Anti-Bribery and Governance Map and recommended them for approval by Corruption Report.
70 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 www.
com 71 Committee reports continued Corporate Social Responsibility Responsibilities of the CSR Committee Committee report The CSR Committee oversees and advises on how the Group conducts its business responsibly.
This includes matters relating to environmental, social, governance and ethics.
The Committee also considers: diversity and inclusion in the workplace: employee engagement and wellbeing: community engagement activities: and environmental matters.
The Committees main responsibilities are: Sebastian James approving the Groups CSR strategy and reviewing Chair of the Corporate Social performance against the strategy.
Responsibility Committee reviewing the Groups performance relating to CSR matters.
assessing the Groups role in society and the Groups external positioning on CSR matters.
Areas of focus in the reporting period Committee composition, skills and experience and meetings in the year Overall, the Committee was keen this year to ensure that the Groups CSR activity was as tightly focused Sebastian James was appointed Chair of the CSR Committee as possible on those areas where the Group could as of 1 March 2016.
This appointment was part of the be a real force for good, bring high levels of specific changes to the Committees that were announced on 16 expertise and have an authentic voice.
As a result, the Committees principal focus was The Committee comprised two independent NEDs, Sebastian on Shotgun, the CSR initiative designed with the James and Jane Hanson, Paul Geddes, CEO, and Simon ambitious goal of reducing young driver deaths in their Linares, Group Human Resources Director.
You can find their first 1,000 miles of driving to zero.
The case study on biographical information on pages 50 to 52. page 73 shows the scrutiny and interest of the Committee in this initiative.
The CSR Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2016.
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: At the Committees request, the Groups CSR Manager and Head of Investments met with a number of the Scheduled Percentage Groups external asset managers to understand their meetings attendance attitudes towards responsible investment.
All were able Sebastian James Chair 3 of 3 100% to demonstrate clear evidence of their own CSR Paul Geddes 3 of 3 100% credentials as well as their approach to incorporating Jane Hanson 3 of 3 100% environmental, social and governance factors into their 12 Simon Linares 2 of 2 100% investment processes.
12 Angela Morrison 1 of 1 100% The Committee reviewed the Groups response to Notes: the 2015 Modern Slavery Act and signed off the Group policy and approach to this issue both within 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend the Company and with respect to outside suppliers.
Angela Morrison stepped down from the Committee prior to the meeting on The Committee agreed with managements assessment 28 July 2016.
Simon Linares was appointed to the Committee at the start of that the Groups risk exposure to the requirements of the same meeting the Modern Slavery Act was currently considered to The Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability, and CSR be low but should be monitored on an ongoing basis.
Manager are invited to attend CSR Committee meetings.
The Committee noted managements procedures to As executive sponsors of the strands of the CSR strategy, the mitigate the risk of a breach in the Groups supply line.
Managing Director of Personal Lines, the Chief Operating The Committee was delighted to note the continued Officer and the Managing Director of Commercial attend strong performance in raising employee engagement appropriate sections of Committee meetings.
scores across the Group as measured by the annual employee survey and continues to push for initiatives The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee to further increase engagement.
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
Main activities during the year The Committee monitors the implementation of the CSR strategy through regular updates on the different focus areas and challenges the robustness of and progress against the targets relating to each strand of the CSR strategy.
The Committee also receives a report on CSR developments at each of its meetings.
72 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 72 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued Corporate Social Responsibility Responsibilities of the CSR Committee Being recognised as part of our communities Case study: Shotgun Committee report The CSR Committee oversees and advises on how the The Committee received reports about how the Group was Group conducts its business responsibly.
This includes matters strengthening the level of support provided to the network The Committees principal focus in the reporting period was relating to environmental, social, governance and ethics.
of Community and Social Committees operating at the on Shotgun, the CSR initiative developed by management Groups main office locations.
The Committee challenged The Committee also considers: diversity and inclusion in the with the goal of reaching no young driver deaths in their the main targets which related to volunteering, fund raising, workplace: employee engagement and wellbeing: community first 1,000 miles of driving.
This is a goal across the UK matched payroll giving and the Community Cashback scheme.
engagement activities: and environmental matters.
irrespective of whether the young driver is insured with the Group or not.
The One Day volunteering initiative and Community Cashback The Committees main responsibilities are: scheme continued to be considered the two areas with the approving the Groups CSR strategy and reviewing The Committee scrutinised the development of the greatest potential for impact.
These arrangements encourage performance against the strategy.
initiative, the consumer research, the reward partners, the colleagues to take part and raise funds for local causes.
communications campaign and the design and build of the reviewing the Groups performance relating to CSR matters.
The Committee questioned the rationale for the name Reduce, Reuse and Recycle assessing the Groups role in society and the Groups Shotgun, and probed management on the designs and This strand of the strategy considers energy use, waste external positioning on CSR matters.
visual identity of the app.
The Committee also requested management and resource use within the Groups operations Areas of focus in the reporting period that management implement controls to help ensure that and environmental and social matters in the Groups supply Committee composition, skills and the potential for negative behaviours was mitigated.
The Committee reviewed the key objectives related to experience and meetings in the year reducing greenhouse gas emissions, diverting waste from Overall, the Committee was keen this year to ensure The Committee examined the communications brief, landfill, and challenged the targets, including the new targets that the Groups CSR activity was as tightly focused Sebastian James was appointed Chair of the CSR Committee particularly the advertising and use of social media.
for waste recycling across the Groups accident and repair as possible on those areas where the Group could as of 1 March 2016.
This appointment was part of the The Committee was especially interested in maximising centres.
The Committee encouraged management to pursue be a real force for good, bring high levels of specific changes to the Committees that were announced on 16 the reach and power of the app, and in making sure that their proposed initiative relating to the use of reconditioned expertise and have an authentic voice.
February 2016. the marketing was appropriate and powerful and made automotive parts in order to reduce embedded energy usage, use of all appropriate channels focused on the digital As a result, the Committees principal focus was The Committee comprised two independent NEDs, Sebastian waste and landfill.
on Shotgun, the CSR initiative designed with the and social channels.
James and Jane Hanson, Paul Geddes, CEO, and Simon ambitious goal of reducing young driver deaths in their Linares, Group Human Resources Director.
You can find their CSR activities The Committee reviewed the evaluation framework and first 1,000 miles of driving to zero.
The case study on biographical information on pages 50 to 52.
The Committee was kept up to date with the Groups external provided feedback on the effectiveness measures, including page 73 shows the scrutiny and interest of the positioning, including the Groups stakeholders and its in relation to attitudes, behaviours and impacts.
A key area Committee in this initiative.
The CSR Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2016. approach to managing the external relationships, including of the Committees focus was to challenge the robustness This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: At the Committees request, the Groups CSR Manager use of the corporate website and the AGM.
The Committee of the development and testing to ensure the product was and Head of Investments met with a number of the continues to challenge managements approach to ensure that launched successfully and functioning as intended.
Scheduled Percentage Groups external asset managers to understand their meetings attendance it is strategic and continues to focus on initiatives with the attitudes towards responsible investment.
All were able potential to add discernible value.
Sebastian James Chair 3 of 3 100% to demonstrate clear evidence of their own CSR CSR strategy Paul Geddes 3 of 3 100% credentials as well as their approach to incorporating The Committee monitored the Groups performance against The Groups CSR strategy focuses on four areas.
A member Jane Hanson 3 of 3 100% environmental, social and governance factors into their the targets set in relation to CSR KPIs.
of the Executive Committee sponsors each area.
They are: 12 Simon Linares 2 of 2 100% investment processes.
12 The Committee reviewed the CSR-related feedback received Angela Morrison 1 of 1 100% Helping to make our society safer Shotgun : The Committee reviewed the Groups response to from proxy voting advisers following publication of the Mike Holliday-Williams, MD Personal Lines.
Notes: the 2015 Modern Slavery Act and signed off the Companys 2015 Annual Report & Accounts and the Notice Group policy and approach to this issue both within 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended Proud to be here: Simon Linares, Group Human Resources of 2016 AGM and encouraged management to consider out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend the Company and with respect to outside suppliers.
Simon Linares was appointed to the Committee at the start of Being recognised as part of our communities: that the Groups risk exposure to the requirements of the same meeting Jon Greenwood, MD Commercial.
The CSR Committees effectiveness the Modern Slavery Act was currently considered to The Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability, and CSR Reduce, Reuse and Recycle: Steve Maddock, A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committees be low but should be monitored on an ongoing basis.
performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the The Committee noted managements procedures to As executive sponsors of the strands of the CSR strategy, the year.
Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School mitigate the risk of a breach in the Groups supply line.
You can find out more about the Groups CSR approach Managing Director of Personal Lines, the Chief Operating facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report The Committee was delighted to note the continued and priorities in the CSR report on pages 30 to 33.
Officer and the Managing Director of Commercial attend based on responses from Committee members and other strong performance in raising employee engagement appropriate sections of Committee meetings.
stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview.
After reviewing scores across the Group as measured by the annual Helping to make our society safer and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was employee survey and continues to push for initiatives The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee During the year, the Committee received progress updates operating effectively and has access to sufficient resources to to further increase engagement.
at each meeting on Shotgun.
The Committee also received perform its duties.
reports on the project to sponsor lollipop people for schools Main activities during the year The Board reviewed and approved this report on Lollipoppers.
You can find further details on the Shotgun 6 March 2017. manifesto in the CSR report on page 30.
The Committee monitors the implementation of the CSR strategy through regular updates on the different focus Proud to be here areas and challenges the robustness of and progress against the targets relating to each strand of the CSR strategy.
The primary objective of this strand was to improve The Committee also receives a report on CSR developments employee engagement in order to support a key enabler at each of its meetings.
Sebastian James of the Groups 2016 strategy.
The KPIs for this element Chair of the CSR Committee are linked to the People Strategy and focus on employee engagement and wellbeing.
72 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 www.
com 73 Committee reports continued Investment Committee report Responsibilities of the Investment Committee The Committee is responsible for the oversight of how the Group develops its investment strategy.
It also oversees the management and performance of the Groups investment portfolio.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: Andrew Palmer Chair of the examine the rationale for, and the risks and financial Investment Committee implications of, any proposed changes to the Groups investment strategy and, where agreed, recommend these changes to the Board.
consider and approve material changes to the risk Areas of focus in the reporting period framework that underpins investment activity, and any proposals to change the operating model.
This typically relates to how outsource service providers are used.
A slowing global economy, a lower for longer review global financial market developments and interest rate outlook and the EU Referendum shaped changes to the regulatory environment, and consider the Committees concerns when it met in January 2016. the ongoing appropriateness of investment activities The case study on page 75 details how the Committee in light of such developments.
met the challenge of ensuring: the Company was prepared in advance of the EU Referendum vote: and monitor the results from investment activities, namely the investment portfolio was appropriately positioned adequacy of financial results delivered, compliance to respond to events after the vote to leave the EU.
with agreed risk tolerances and external service provider The in-house Investment team undertook a material performance.
The Committee also ensures that any material breaches are reported to the BRC.
change of outsource arrangements during the year, moving custody, treasury banking, middle-office and Committee composition, skills and collateral activities to a new provider.
The Committee monitored delivery of key milestones and challenged experience and meetings in the year reasons for changes to project plans.
The project was The Committee comprises two independent NEDs: executed successfully in 2016.
Andrew Palmer and Jane Hanson.
You can find their As part of managements drive to deliver a cost-effective biographical information on pages 50 and 51. investment operating model, the Committee has Andrew Palmer was appointed Chair of the Committee as of scrutinised a proposal from management to bring 1 March 2016.
This appointment was part of the changes to certain UK investment grade credit assets in house.
the Committees that were announced on 16 February 2016.
The Committee challenged whether the Investment team was in a position to manage in-house a wider range The Investment Committee held four scheduled meetings of holdings before approving this initiative.
The table below shows attendance at the With the compression in UK yields following the vote to scheduled meetings: leave the EU, the Committee was concerned to ensure investment discipline remained paramount within new Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance asset classes still being invested to full allocations and investment income budgeting continued to be based on Andrew Palmer Chair 4 of 4 100 % conservative assumptions.
The Committee received a Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100 % presentation from the external asset manager responsible 1 Clare Thompson 1 of 1 100 % for the CRE loans portfolio and reviewed the assumptions Note: underpinning managements projections of investment 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended income over 2017-20.
In both cases, the Committee out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend was satisfied with responses received to questions raised at respective presentations.
The CEO, CFO, CRO, Director of Investment Management and Treasury, and Director of Financial Risk are invited to Following the implementation of Solvency II, the attend Committee meetings.
Committee wanted to understand: a how well management was planning for, and resourcing, the The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee additional reporting on assets and derivatives required meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
under Pillar III: and b whether there was sufficient evidence of application of the Prudent Person Principle PPP to investment activities.
Following review the Committee was satisfied that appropriate levels of delegation to management had been put in place: and that management were robustly reviewing investment and risk against the PPP guidelines.
74 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 74 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued Investment Committee report Responsibilities of the Investment Risk framework and operating model Case study: EU referendum Committee As reported in the Annual Report & Accounts 2015, the Committee agreed to proposals to move custody and The Committee is responsible for the oversight of how In preparation for the UKs EU membership referendum, the middle-office services to a new provider.
The Committee the Group develops its investment strategy.
It also oversees Committee met economists from a major financial institution ensured it received regular updates on the project, including the management and performance of the Groups in April 2016 to obtain an independent third party view of implementation and the benefits achieved since the transfer.
the likely economic consequences of a vote to either remain The final part of the transfer was completed successfully in in, or leave, the EU.
In addition, the Committee requested The Committees main responsibilities are to: November 2016. an update from management regarding preparations examine the rationale for, and the risks and financial in advance of the vote.
The Committee concluded that Monitoring investment activity and performance implications of, any proposed changes to the Groups preparations, including plans to ensure access to liquidity The Committee monitored the performance of investments investment strategy and, where agreed, recommend to meet customer payments, and to support collateral calls, every quarter.
It also received reports from the Director of these changes to the Board.
In the period following the vote, Investment Management and Treasury on various matters.
management updated both the Board and the Committee consider and approve material changes to the risk These included: key market developments: financial results on market conditions, and in particular the impact of Areas of focus in the reporting period framework that underpins investment activity, and any from investment activity: investment performance versus Sterlings depreciation against both the US Dollar and proposals to change the operating model.
This typically benchmark for internally and externally managed portfolios: the Euro on collateral calls for open foreign exchange relates to how outsource service providers are used.
operational performance by the custodian and other service A slowing global economy, a lower for longer forward positions.
providers: and compliance with risk limits and internal review global financial market developments and interest rate outlook and the EU Referendum shaped delegated authorities.
The Committee also received changes to the regulatory environment, and consider the Committees concerns when it met in January 2016.
Concerned that the leave vote could lead to a period presentations from external asset managers on their the ongoing appropriateness of investment activities The case study on page 75 details how the Committee of recession in the UK, the Committee at its meeting performance against benchmark.
in light of such developments.
met the challenge of ensuring: the Company was in July 2016 requested management to carry out a prepared in advance of the EU Referendum vote: and comprehensive study of all Sterling assets held in the monitor the results from investment activities, namely Solvency II the investment portfolio was appropriately positioned portfolio, in addition to considering any appropriate wider adequacy of financial results delivered, compliance The Committee examined progress on initiatives linked to respond to events after the vote to leave the EU.
stresses on the entire portfolio, and make recommendations with agreed risk tolerances and external service provider to preparing for Solvency II, notably: as necessary to position the portfolio for a recession.
The The in-house Investment team undertook a material performance.
The Committee also ensures that any Committee reviewed the study conclusions at its subsequent material breaches are reported to the BRC.
change of outsource arrangements during the year, preparing a liquidity plan and contingent management meeting, noting that the portfolio was very well diversified moving custody, treasury banking, middle-office and actions.
and certain illiquid asset classes had been built defensively Committee composition, skills and collateral activities to a new provider.
The Committee from the outset, given the Company was a long-term investor developing various asset and derivative reports to submit monitored delivery of key milestones and challenged experience and meetings in the year and thus expected to be subject to periods of market to the PRA and European Insurance and Occupational reasons for changes to project plans.
The project was The Committee comprises two independent NEDs: turbulence from time to time.
Management advised the Pensions Authority.
You can find their Committee of some minor sales within the portfolio designed restructuring the securitised credit portfolio to meet Solvency As part of managements drive to deliver a cost-effective biographical information on pages 50 and 51. to provide some further defensive positioning, which was II requirements.
investment operating model, the Committee has in part, the result of examining a recessionary outlook.
Andrew Palmer was appointed Chair of the Committee as of scrutinised a proposal from management to bring The Investment Committees 1 March 2016.
the Committees that were announced on 16 February 2016. effectiveness The Committee challenged whether the Investment team Main activities during the year was in a position to manage in-house a wider range A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committees At every scheduled meeting the Committee receives a market The Investment Committee held four scheduled meetings of holdings before approving this initiative.
performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the update from the Director of Investment Management and in 2016.
The table below shows attendance at the year.
Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School Treasury.
This includes a report on the economic conditions With the compression in UK yields following the vote to scheduled meetings: facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report in the UK, United States of America and the Eurozone: an leave the EU, the Committee was concerned to ensure based on responses from Committee members and other update on commodity prices, credit markets and interest investment discipline remained paramount within new Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview.
After reviewing rates: and anything appropriate for the Committee to know.
asset classes still being invested to full allocations and and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was investment income budgeting continued to be based on Andrew Palmer Chair 4 of 4 100 % Investment strategy operating effectively and has access to sufficient resources to conservative assumptions.
The Committee received a Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100 % perform its duties.
presentation from the external asset manager responsible 1 The Investment strategy was materially changed in 2015.
Clare Thompson 1 of 1 100 % for the CRE loans portfolio and reviewed the assumptions Because of this, the Committee spent its time reviewing and Note: The Board reviewed and approved this report on underpinning managements projections of investment challenging the new investments.
The Committee focused on 6 March 2017.
In both cases, the Committee the three new asset mandates: two investing in global credit out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend was satisfied with responses received to questions and subordinated financial credit, and one investing in Sterling raised at respective presentations.
The CEO, CFO, CRO, Director of Investment Management CRE loans which was a new asset class in the Groups and Treasury, and Director of Financial Risk are invited to investment portfolio.
Following the implementation of Solvency II, the attend Committee meetings.
Committee wanted to understand: a how well Andrew Palmer management was planning for, and resourcing, the The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee Chair of the Investment Committee additional reporting on assets and derivatives required meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
74 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 www.
com 75 Committee reports continued Nomination Committee report Responsibilities of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for leading the process for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board.
It keeps the Board's structure, size, composition, and balance of skills, experience, independence and expertise under review.
It also provides guidance to management on Mike Biggs executive succession planning.
Chair of the Nomination The Committees main responsibilities are: Committee considering and recommending to the Board matters regarding appointment of Directors, membership and chairmanship of Board Committees.
Areas of focus in the reporting period succession planning for Directors and other senior executives, accounting for the skills and expertise the Group needs to deliver its strategy.
An active Nomination Committee is vital for promoting keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group.
effective Board and executive succession.
During 2016, the majority of the Committees time was devoted to reviewing the Non-Executive Directors continued considering the composition of the Board.
that the recruitment process for Non-Executive Directors considering and recommending to the Board the Directors identified the skills and experience that the Board needs annual re-election and reappointment at the end of their to be able to challenge and support senior management term in office.
in developing and executing the Groups strategy.
It also reviewed executive succession planning, to ensure The Nomination Committees main role and responsibilities that the Groups future leadership will have the qualities are set out in written terms of reference and are available at needed for the strategic and cultural development www.
co. uk termsofreference of the business.
The case study on page 77 details the activities undertaken by the Committee during 2016 Committee composition, skills and on succession planning for the Board and management.
experience, and meetings in the year As part of its focus on executive succession planning, The Committee comprises the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and and to improve gender and other diversity in the two independent Non-Executive Directors: Andrew Palmer and Groups senior management, the Committee Richard Ward.
You can find their biographical information on encouraged management to develop its talent pipeline.
This is being achieved by the systematic assessment of potential, bespoke personal coaching and development The Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2016. plans for high-potential employees.
The Committee also It also held eight additional meetings to consider succession encouraged the targeted recruitment of new senior planning and to deal with: the appointment of Richard Ward executives to strengthen leadership and capability in as Senior Independent Director: membership of the Boards disciplines including strategic development, change Committees: searching and appointing Danuta Gray as a management, IT, claims management, data, finance Non-Executive Director: appointing Mike Holliday-Williams and procurement.
as an Executive Director: and appointing an external board effectiveness facilitator.
During the reporting period, the Committee oversaw the appointments to the Board of: Richard Ward as Senior This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: Independent Director: Danuta Gray as an independent Non-Executive Director: and Mike Holliday-Williams, Scheduled Percentage MD Personal Lines, as an Executive Director.
The meetings attendance Committee recommended changes to the membership Mike Biggs Chair 3 of 3 100% of the Boards Committees to make the best use of Andrew Palmer 3 of 3 100% Directors experience and expertise.
1 Priscilla Vacassin 1 of 1 100% The Committee agreed the choice of Egon Zehnder 1 Richard Ward 2 of 2 100% as search agent and the profile and criteria to be used Note: in the search which culminated in the appointment of 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended Danuta Gray.
In view of the lead time for identifying out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend candidates and obtaining regulatory approval in advance of their appointment, and with the aim of The CEO and the Group Human Resources Director are ensuring continuity and stability in the Boards invited to attend Committee meetings.
succession planning, the Committee has engaged The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee Egon Zehnder in a search for further Non-Executive meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
76 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 76 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued Nomination Committee report Responsibilities of the Nomination Board changes Case study: succession planning Committee The Company appointed Richard Ward as Senior Independent Director on 18 January 2016.
Priscilla Vacassin The Committee is responsible for leading the process for Your Board needs a balance of experience, expertise and stepped down from the Board on 1 March 2016 and the Board appointments and making recommendations to the diversity, to support the quality of the Boards debate and Committee recommended to the Board a number of changes Board.
It keeps the Board's structure, size, composition, and to be able to encourage and challenge senior management to the chairmanship and membership of the Boards balance of skills, experience, independence and expertise to develop and execute a sustainable strategy.
In addition Committees, which the Board subsequently approved and under review.
It also provides guidance to management on to its three scheduled formal meetings, the Committee were announced on 16 February 2016.
The Committee also executive succession planning.
convened a further eight meetings throughout 2016 to recommended the appointment of Richard Ward as a member pursue its succession planning agenda.
The Committee The Committees main responsibilities are: of the BRC, which the Board subsequently approved.
oversaw the process of recruiting a new Non-Executive Following a recommendation from the Committee, the Board considering and recommending to the Board matters Director following Priscilla Vacassins retirement from the appointed Danuta Gray as a Non-Executive Director, and regarding appointment of Directors, membership and Board in March 2016.
With the objective of staggering Mike Holliday-Williams, Managing Director Personal Lines, chairmanship of Board Committees.
Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment to ensure as an Executive Director on 1 February 2017.
Following continuity and stability, the Committee also launched a Areas of focus in the reporting period succession planning for Directors and other senior a further recommendation from the Committee, the Board search for a further two Non-Executive Directors in the last executives, accounting for the skills and expertise the approved the appointment of Danuta Gray as a member quarter of the year.
Since the year end, Danuta Gray has Group needs to deliver its strategy.
of the Remuneration Committee on 6 March 2017. been appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Mike An active Nomination Committee is vital for promoting keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group.
Holliday-Williams, MD Personal Lines, has been appointed effective Board and executive succession.
During 2016, Board appointment and reappointment process as an Executive Director.
the majority of the Committees time was devoted to reviewing the Non-Executive Directors continued The Committee oversaw the process to appoint Danuta Gray considering the composition of the Board.
The Committee reviewed the The Committee has actively supported the management that the recruitment process for Non-Executive Directors considering and recommending to the Board the Directors Board members expertise and experience.
It then produced team in generating and maintaining a pipeline of identified the skills and experience that the Board needs annual re-election and reappointment at the end of their a detailed brief and engaged external search consultants, potential future leaders who reflect the Groups diversity to be able to challenge and support senior management term in office.
Egon Zehnder, to find suitable candidates.
Egon Zehnder and cultural values and who contribute to and develop in developing and executing the Groups strategy.
It is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for executive the capability to evolve the business and drive good also reviewed executive succession planning, to ensure The Nomination Committees main role and responsibilities search firms.
It is not connected in any way to the Company.
outcomes for all our customers and stakeholders.
that the Groups future leadership will have the qualities are set out in written terms of reference and are available at needed for the strategic and cultural development www.
co. uk termsofreference Egon Zehnder prepared a long list of candidates of appropriate The Committee has encouraged management to identify of the business.
The case study on page 77 details the merit from diverse backgrounds.
The Committee agreed a and develop high potential individuals, and create a activities undertaken by the Committee during 2016 Committee composition, skills and shortlist and interviewed candidates.
It then approached the PRA working environment in which our talented women can also on succession planning for the Board and management.
and FCA for approval, and recommended appointing Danuta experience, and meetings in the year rise to senior management positions.
The Committee will As part of its focus on executive succession planning, Gray as a Non-Executive Director to the Board.
The Committee monitor progress in achieving the targets committed to by The Committee comprises the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and recommended the appointment of Mike Holliday-Williams to the and to improve gender and other diversity in the the Group in subscribing to the Women in Finance Charter.
two independent Non-Executive Directors: Andrew Palmer and Board in recognition of his leadership of the Personal Lines Groups senior management, the Committee Richard Ward.
You can find their biographical information on business and to leverage his expertise for the benefit of all of the encouraged management to develop its talent pipeline.
This is being achieved by the systematic assessment of Main activities during the year potential, bespoke personal coaching and development The Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2016.
As Danuta Gray and Mike Holliday-Williams were appointed Succession planning plans for high-potential employees.
The Committee also It also held eight additional meetings to consider succession since the last AGM, they will submit themselves for election encouraged the targeted recruitment of new senior The Committee places great importance on Board and executive planning and to deal with: the appointment of Richard Ward at the Companys 2017 AGM.
Danuta Gray is considered executives to strengthen leadership and capability in succession planning and monitors its progress as a standing as Senior Independent Director: membership of the Boards independent within the Codes meaning.
disciplines including strategic development, change agenda item at each of its scheduled meetings.
The Committee Committees: searching and appointing Danuta Gray as a management, IT, claims management, data, finance guides management in executive succession planning.
Non-Executive Director: appointing Mike Holliday-Williams Electing and re-electing Directors and procurement.
as an Executive Director: and appointing an external board Board composition Before recommending the proposed election and re-election effectiveness facilitator.
During the reporting period, the Committee oversaw the of Directors at the 2016 AGM, the Committee reviewed the During the year, the Committee: considered the Boards skills appointments to the Board of: Richard Ward as Senior This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: independence of Non-Executive Directors.
It concluded that and experience: reviewed the structure, size and composition Independent Director: Danuta Gray as an independent Jane Hanson, Sebastian James, Andrew Palmer, Clare of the Board: reviewed the membership and chairmanship Non-Executive Director: and Mike Holliday-Williams, Scheduled Percentage Thompson and Richard Ward were all independent within of the Boards Committees: and reviewed Non-Executive MD Personal Lines, as an Executive Director.
The meetings attendance the Codes meaning.
Andrew Palmer has served on the Board Directors letters of appointment, terms of appointment and Committee recommended changes to the membership Mike Biggs Chair 3 of 3 100% since March 2011, and his performance and independence time commitment.
of the Boards Committees to make the best use of Andrew Palmer 3 of 3 100% were subject to a particularly rigorous review by the Committee Directors experience and expertise.
1 Priscilla Vacassin 1 of 1 100% pursuant to the requirements of the Code.
The Board is satisfied The Committee agreed the choice of Egon Zehnder 1 that he remains independent, continues to make a significant Richard Ward 2 of 2 100% as search agent and the profile and criteria to be used contribution to the Board and its Committees, and provides Note: in the search which culminated in the appointment of valuable continuity to the Board.
In view of the lead time for identifying when appointed as Chairman.
The Committee recommended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend candidates and obtaining regulatory approval in to the Board and shareholders to elect and re-elect all serving advance of their appointment, and with the aim of The CEO and the Group Human Resources Director are Directors at the Companys 2016 AGM.
ensuring continuity and stability in the Boards invited to attend Committee meetings.
76 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 www.
com 77 Committee reports continued Diversity The Group celebrates the diversity of its workforce.
It seeks to recruit the best candidates for all positions throughout the business.
At the date of this report, three of the Groups 10 Directors are women, which equates to 30% of the Board.
This exceeds the target set in Lord Davies Women on Boards Review Five Year Summary published in October 2015, to be achieved by 2020.
The Board also acknowledges the benefits of diversity.
You can find out more about the Groups approach to diversity in the CSR report on pages 32 and 33.
Board Effectiveness Review In the three-year cycle recommended by the Code, 2016 was the year in which the Company should appoint an external facilitator to run the Board and Committee effectiveness review.
The Nomination Committee scrutinised a list of potential external facilitators drawn up by the Company Secretary and recommended the appointment of Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School, whose field of expertise is organisational behaviour and leadership development.
The Board subsequently approved his appointment as the external facilitator.
The Nomination Committees effectiveness A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committees performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the year.
Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report based on responses from Committee members and other stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview.
After reviewing and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was operating effectively and has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
The Board reviewed and approved this report on 6 March 2017.
Michael N Biggs Chair of the Nomination Committee 78 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 78 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued Diversity Remuneration Committee report Responsibilities of the Remuneration The Group celebrates the diversity of its workforce.
It seeks Committee to recruit the best candidates for all positions throughout the The Committee is responsible for setting and providing business.
At the date of this report, three of the Groups 10 oversight of how the Group implements its remuneration Directors are women, which equates to 30% of the Board.
The Committee oversees the level and structure of This exceeds the target set in Lord Davies Women on Boards remuneration arrangements for senior executives.
It also Review Five Year Summary published in October 2015, approves share incentive plans, and recommends them to the to be achieved by 2020.
The Board also acknowledges Clare Thompson Board and shareholders.
Where applicable, it also oversees the benefits of diversity.
Chair of the share plan changes that need shareholder approval.
Remuneration You can find out more about the Groups approach to Committee The Committees main responsibilities are: diversity in the CSR report on pages 32 and 33. setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors Board Effectiveness Review and Board Chairman and monitoring its operation.
In the three-year cycle recommended by the Code, 2016 recommending and monitoring the level and structure Areas of focus in the reporting period was the year in which the Company should appoint of remuneration for senior executives and Solvency II an external facilitator to run the Board and Committee identified staff.
The Nomination Committee scrutinised The Directors remuneration policy was approved at the considering how the Groups strategy or performance a list of potential external facilitators drawn up by the Companys 2014 AGM, and the Company is required might affect its remuneration policy.
Company Secretary and recommended the appointment to submit a new remuneration policy for shareholder approving the Groups remuneration governance of Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School, whose approval at the 2017 AGM.
The case study on framework.
This includes approving the design and field of expertise is organisational behaviour and leadership page 80 explains how the Committee: reviewed targets of any performance-related pay arrangements, development.
The Board subsequently approved his the remuneration policy: challenged how Directors and liaising with the Board Risk and Audit Committees appointment as the external facilitator.
reward structures were aligned to the Groups strategic where appropriate.
objectives: and participated in the consultation process The Nomination Committees effectiveness with major shareholders and governance agencies.
The Remuneration Committees main role and responsibilities A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committees During the year the Committee agreed a customer are set out in written terms of reference and are available at performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the and people measure for the 2017 AIP.
Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School considered the most appropriate mix of customer and facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report people targets, taking into account that the Company Committee composition, skills and based on responses from Committee members and other had joined the HM Treasury initiative, Women in experience and meetings in the year stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview.
This initiative connected certain aspects of The Committee comprised three independent NEDs in 2016: and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it remuneration to appropriate targets.
To ensure that the Clare Thompson, Sebastian James and Andrew Palmer, and was operating effectively and has access to sufficient targets were challenging, a member of the Committee the Chairman of the Board, Mike Biggs.
Danuta Gray was resources to perform its duties.
considered the supporting documentation and appointed a member of the Committee on 6 March 2017. underlying processes.
The Committee then discussed The Board reviewed and approved this report on You can find their biographical information on pages 50 the targets before approving them.
Prior to any awards vesting under the LTIP and deferred AIP schemes the Committee considered whether the The Remuneration Committee held five scheduled meetings financial and risk underpins had been met.
Two sub-committee meetings were also held to confirmation from the Chair of the BRC that there had approve the LTIP vesting and grants.
Two additional meetings been no material risk failings, regulatory or reputational were held to discuss the remuneration policy.
This table shows Michael N Biggs concerns.
The Chair of the Audit Committee confirmed attendance at the scheduled meetings: Chair of the Nomination Committee that there had been no circumstances regarding the Scheduled Percentage adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal meetings attendance financial controls and internal control systems that 1 Clare Thompson Chair 3 of 3 100% would affect the vesting.
The Committee approved the vesting of awards.
Mike Biggs 5 of 5 100% Sebastian James 5 of 5 100% The Committee considered whether the performance Andrew Palmer 5 of 5 100% targets of RoTE and TSR remain appropriate and in line 1 with the Groups strategic objectives.
When considering Priscilla Vacassin 2 of 2 100% awards under the LTIP scheme the Committee Note: considered the appropriate targets to ensure that they 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended remain challenging in the context of the Groups out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend planned performance.
The CEO, Group Human Resources Director and senior The Committee reviewed the submission of the representatives of the Human Resources function are invited to Remuneration Policy Statement to the PRA, which was attend Committee meetings.
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP a new Solvency II requirement.
The statement contained FIT, who act as independent advisers to the Committee, details of the remuneration policy that applied also attend Committee meetings.
The Chair reports on matters throughout the Group as well as particular requirements dealt with at each Committee meeting to the subsequent for Solvency II identified staff.
78 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 www.
com 79 Committee reports continued Main activities during the year Case study: Directors Review of remuneration policy remuneration policy As we approached the end of the first three-year cycle since the introduction of the new remuneration reporting regulations, Review: Initially the Committee undertook a fundamental the current Directors remuneration policy, that was approved review of remuneration arrangements for the strategic at the Companys 2014 AGM, is due for review.
The new leadership team including Executive Directors and Executive remuneration policy will be submitted to shareholders binding Committee members.
The Committee was supported in the vote at the 2017 AGM and will be expected to remain in review by management and FIT.
The structure of the review place for the next three years.
team was designed to minimise any conflicts of interest when analysing current remuneration arrangements.
Annual incentive plan The review included interviews with members of the During the year, the Committee monitored the operation of Remuneration Committee and Executive Committee in order the AIP.
For the 2015 financial year, this involved reviewing to capture views on the current remuneration structures, test the Groups financial performance and assessing the Groups the appropriateness of the remuneration arrangements and performance against the targets that the Committee set at the to consider how they furthered the Groups strategy and start of the year.
It also received reports from the Chairs of long-term interests.
A report was then produced by FIT on the Audit Committee and BRC about whether the Group their findings for the Committees strategy day.
had achieved the required performance within risk appetite.
The Committee concluded that no clawback of awards was Consider: At the strategy day the Committee reviewed the required in 2016. current remuneration policy, and considered alternatives in the light of the Groups objectives, regulatory and market For the 2016 financial year, the Committee approved the landscape and highlighted areas in which it considered performance metrics and monitored performance against changes could be made so that formal proposals could them.
The Committee also discussed and challenged the be put forward to the Committee.
The Committee also performance metrics for the 2017 AIP and, subsequently considered areas which were not currently in the approved the metrics.
The Committee discussed proposed remuneration policy and could be added.
new customer and people measures and was satisfied that the proposed measures were sufficiently challenging.
The The proposed changes to the Directors remuneration Committee scrutinised the new approach to performance policy were then considered against: the Groups strategic management that was introduced for 2016 and commended objectives: statutory and regulatory requirements: and management on simplifying the appraisal process.
Following the review the Committee identified a number of changes to the Long-term incentives remuneration policy and wrote to major shareholders and During 2016, the Committee reviewed and approved the level a number of governance agencies advising them of the of vesting of the 2013 awards made under the Companys proposals and asking for their views on them.
LTIP against the performance criteria.
These awards had two Consult: The Committee continued to consider the proposals performance metrics based on RoTE and TSR.
After assessing in the light of subsequent guidance issued from August 2016 performance against these metrics, the awards vested at a level to 31 December 2016 by organisations such as the of 96.4%.
Before vesting, the Committee considered the LTIPs Investment Association, the Executive Remuneration Working financial and risk underpins.
The Committee also determined Group, the General Counsel and Company Secretaries of the quantum of awards made in 2016 under the LTIP in view FTSE 100 companies GC100 and Legal & General of business and individual performance.
The Committee Directors and other senior executives concluded its consultation with major shareholders, the investor community and governance agencies in January 2017.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the level and structure of the pay and incentives of the The proposals were generally well received and based Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Additionally, on the responses adjustments were made to the proposed it reviewed remuneration for the strategic leadership team.
You can find out more about the As part of this review, the Committee considered the Share Directors remuneration policy to be voted on by Ownership Guidelines for the Executive Directors and shareholders at the 2017 AGM on pages 100 to 109.
80 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 80 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued Main activities during the year Solvency II identified staff The Remuneration Committees Case study: Directors Review of remuneration policy The Committee reviewed and approved the staff who, for the effectiveness remuneration policy purposes of Solvency II, were identified as Solvency II staff.
As we approached the end of the first three-year cycle since A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committees The Committees remit was extended to include oversight of the the introduction of the new remuneration reporting regulations, performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the Review: Initially the Committee undertook a fundamental remuneration of Solvency II identified staff.
The Committee also the current Directors remuneration policy, that was approved year.
Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School review of remuneration arrangements for the strategic reviewed and approved a remuneration policy statement for at the Companys 2014 AGM, is due for review.
The new facilitated this effectiveness review and prepared a report leadership team including Executive Directors and Executive submission to the PRA.
The Committee considered and examined remuneration policy will be submitted to shareholders binding based on responses from Committee members and other Committee members.
The Committee was supported in the the current remuneration structure for control functions, which are vote at the 2017 AGM and will be expected to remain in stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview.
After reviewing review by management and FIT.
The structure of the review Corporate Actuarial, Compliance, Group Audit and Risk.
The place for the next three years.
and discussing the report, the Committee concluded it was team was designed to minimise any conflicts of interest Committee is satisfied that the remuneration arrangements for operating effectively and has access to sufficient resources when analysing current remuneration arrangements.
control functions are appropriate but will continue to review Annual incentive plan to perform its duties.
The review included interviews with members of the During the year, the Committee monitored the operation of The Board reviewed and approved this report on Remuneration Committee and Executive Committee in order the AIP.
For the 2015 financial year, this involved reviewing Remuneration strategy 6 March 2017. to capture views on the current remuneration structures, test the Groups financial performance and assessing the Groups the appropriateness of the remuneration arrangements and In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the performance against the targets that the Committee set at the to consider how they furthered the Groups strategy and Committee held an additional meeting to review the start of the year.
A report was then produced by FIT on remuneration framework and ensure that it was aligned the Audit Committee and BRC about whether the Group their findings for the Committees strategy day.
to the Group strategy, and to set future priorities.
Clare Thompson The Committee concluded that no clawback of awards was Consider: At the strategy day the Committee reviewed the Regulatory developments in Remuneration Chair of the Remuneration Committee required in 2016. current remuneration policy, and considered alternatives in During the year, a joint meeting was held with the BRC to the light of the Groups objectives, regulatory and market For the 2016 financial year, the Committee approved the review regulatory developments in relation to remuneration landscape and highlighted areas in which it considered performance metrics and monitored performance against and to ensure remuneration arrangements remain appropriate.
changes could be made so that formal proposals could them.
The Committee also discussed and challenged the The Committees also examined the assurance processes in be put forward to the Committee.
The Committee also performance metrics for the 2017 AIP and, subsequently connection with incentive arrangements.
You can find out considered areas which were not currently in the approved the metrics.
The Committee discussed proposed more about this in the Board Risk Committee report on pages remuneration policy and could be added.
new customer and people measures and was satisfied that 68 to 71. the proposed measures were sufficiently challenging.
The The proposed changes to the Directors remuneration Committee scrutinised the new approach to performance Additional information policy were then considered against: the Groups strategic management that was introduced for 2016 and commended The Committee also interacts with the Audit Committee and objectives: statutory and regulatory requirements: and management on simplifying the appraisal process.
BRC when considering setting targets and pay-outs.
As part investors published guidance.
Following the review the of this, the Committee receives reports from the Chairs of Committee identified a number of changes to the Long-term incentives those Committees at least twice a year.
The Chair of the remuneration policy and wrote to major shareholders and Audit Committee is a member of the Committee.
The Chair During 2016, the Committee reviewed and approved the level a number of governance agencies advising them of the of the Board Risk Committee attended Committee meetings of vesting of the 2013 awards made under the Companys proposals and asking for their views on them.
80 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 www.
