Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information To access information, the website requires shareholders Corporate website to quote their Shareholder Reference Number.
Shareholders The Groups corporate website is www.
can find this number on their share certificates.
It contains useful information for the Companys investors and shareholders.
For example, it includes press releases, details of Shareholder warning forthcoming events, essential shareholder information, a dividend Almost five thousand people contact the FCA about share history, a financial calendar, and details of the Companys fraud each year and victims lose an average of 20,000.
You can also subscribe to email news alerts.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure Market investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that prove to The Company has a premium listing on the UK Listing be worthless or non-existent.
Or they can offer to buy shares at Authoritys Official List.
The Companys Ordinary Shares EPIC: an inflated price in return for you paying upfront.
They promise DLG are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
However, if you buy or sell shares in this way, you will probably lose your money.
Share ownership How to avoid share fraud Share capital Remember that FCA-authorised firms are unlikely to You can find details of the Companys share capital in contact you unexpectedly offering to buy or sell shares note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Do not converse with them.
Note the name of the person Dividends and firm contacting you, then end the call The Company pays its dividends in Sterling to shareholders To see if the person and firm contacting you are authorised registered on its register of members at the relevant record date.
by the FCA, check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk Shareholders can arrange to receive their cash dividend Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm: payments in a bank or building society account by completing copying its website: or giving you false contact details a dividend mandate form.
This is available from the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC Registrar, If you want to phone the caller back, use the firms in the UK.
You can find the Registrars contact details on page contact details listed on the Financial Services Register 196.
Alternatively, shareholders can access their shareholdings at www.
uk online and download a dividend mandate form from the Investor If the firm does not have contact details on the Register Centre.
You can find details of this below.
or they tell you the details are out of date, call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 Dividend Reinvestment Plan Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
uk consumers scams This enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy the Companys Ordinary Shares in the market.
Remember that if you buy or sell shares from an You can find more details on the Companys website.
unauthorised firm, you cannot access the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Shareholder enquiries Compensation Scheme Shareholders with queries about anything relating to their Get independent financial and professional advice shares can contact our Registrar.
before handing over any money If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in shareholding details, such as their address, as soon as possible.
Report a scam Shareholders can access their current shareholding details If fraudsters approach you, tell the FCA using the share online at www.
Investor Centre fraud reporting form at www.
is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website that enables You can also find out more about investment scams on the shareholders to manage their holdings online.
The website same web page.
allows shareholders to: You can call the FCA Consumer Helpline on check their holdings: 0800 111 6768. update their records, including address and direct If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, credit details: call Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up a personal account: vote online: and register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
com 187 Additional information continued Tips on protecting your shares Dividend tax allowance Keep all your certificates in a safe place.
Alternatively, From April 2016, dividend tax credits were replaced by consider holding your shares in the UKs electronic an annual 5,000 tax-free allowance across an individuals registration and settlement system for equity, called CREST, entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay or via a nominee tax on their dividend income.
The rate of this tax depends on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
The Keep correspondence from the Registrar that shows your Company will continue providing registered shareholders with shareholder reference number in a safe place, and shred a confirmation of the dividends paid.
Shareholders should unwanted correspondence include this with any other dividend income they receive when Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address calculating and reporting total dividend income received to HMRC.
The shareholder is responsible for including all If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a dividend income when calculating tax requirements.
If you change of address and you have not recently moved, have any tax queries, please contact your financial adviser.
contact them immediately Find out when your dividends are paid and contact the Financial calendar Registrar if you do not receive them 2017 Consider having your dividends paid direct into your bank Date Event account.
You will need to complete a dividend mandate form and send it to the Registrar.
This reduces the risk of 07 March Preliminary Results 2016 cheques being stolen or lost in the post 16 March Ex-dividend date for 2016 final dividend If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar of 17 March Record date for 2016 final dividend 1 your new account details immediately 03 May Trading update for the first quarter of 2017 If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers 11 May Annual General Meeting registered in the UK or in your country of residence 18 May Payment date for 2016 final dividend Be aware that the Company will never call you concerning 1 01 August Half Year Report 2017 investments.
If you receive such a call from a person saying 1 10 August Ex-dividend date for 2017 interim they represent the Group, please contact the Company dividend Secretary immediately, by calling 44 0 1132 920 667 1 11 August Record date for 2017 interim dividend 1 Electronic communications and voting 08 September Payment date for 2017 interim dividend 1 07 November Trading update for the third quarter of The Group produces various communications.
Shareholders 2017 can view these online, download them, or receive paper copies by contacting the Registrar.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders, who register their email address with our The 2017 AGM will be held on 11 May 2017 at the offices Registrar, or at the Investor Centre, can receive emails with of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, news on events, such as the AGM.
They can also receive starting at 11.00 am.
All shareholders will receive a separate shareholder communications electronically, like the Annual notice convening the AGM.
This will explain the resolutions to Report & Accounts and Notice of Meeting.
Dealing facilities Shareholders who wish to buy, sell or transfer their shares may do so through a stockbroker or a high street bank: or through the Registrars share-dealing facility.
You can call or email the Registrar regarding its share-dealing facility using this contact information: For telephone sales, call 44 0 370 703 0084 between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays For internet sales, go to www.
You will need your Shareholder Reference Number, as shown on your share certificate, or your welcome letter from the Chairman.
These dates are subject to change 188 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 188 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016
