20122013 include the discontinued German operations not restated.
2 Excludes non-recourse loans, Germany non-controlling interest loan and share buyback obligation.
3 Compared to the comparable 52-week period in the prior year.
4 Historical years have been adjusted to reflect the share split of 3 shares for 1 made on 27 June 2016.
124 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Shareholder information Advisers and principal service providers Registered office Solicitors 1 Thornbury Norton Rose Fulbright LLP West Ashland More London Riverside Milton Keynes London MK6 4BB SE1 2AQ 01908 580000 Investor website: corporate.
co. uk Registrars Broker and corporate finance advisers Equiniti Limited Aspect House Numis Securities Limited Spencer Road The London Stock Exchange Lancing 10 Paternoster Square West Sussex London BN99 6DA EC4M 7LT If you hold your shares direct and not through a Savings Scheme Auditor orISAand have queries relating to your shareholding, please contact the registrars: Ernst & Young LLP No.
1 Colmore Square o Callers in the UK: 0371 384 2895 Birmingham o Callers from outside the UK: 44 121 415 0926 B4 6HQ Lines are open from 8.00a.
m. Monday to Friday Bankers excludingUK bank holidays.
Barclays Bank plc Shareholders can also access details of their holding and other Ashton House information on the registrars website, www.
497 Silbury Boulevard The registrars provide an online share dealing service for those who are Milton Keynes not seeking advice on buying or selling, available at www.
MK9 2LD The registrars also offer a range of other dealing and investment services, which are explained on their website, www.
Handle with care Shareholders tell us that they sometimes receive unsolicited If you are worried that you may already have been a victim of fraud, approaches, normally by telephone, inviting them to undertake report the facts immediately using the Action Fraud Helpline.
atransaction in shares they own.
Shouldyou want any more information about boiler room and other investment-based fraud, this can be found on two websites: If you do not know the source of the call, check the details against the FCA website below and, if you have any specific information, Action Fraud Helpline report it to the FCA using the Consumer Helpline or the Online 0300 123 2040 Reporting Form.
Action Fraud Website If you have any concerns whatsoever, do not take any action www.
uk anddonot part with any money without being certain that: o you fully understand the transaction: FCA Consumer Helpline 0845 606 1234 o you know who you are dealing with and that they are registered with and authorised by the FCA: and FCA Scams & Swindles Website www.
uk scams o you have consulted a financial adviser if you have any doubts.
Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it almost certainly is.
Yourun the risk of losing any money you part with.
The Groups commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report which has been printed on Symbol freelife satin which is made from a FSC certified and PCF Process Chlorine Free material.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their environmental printing technology, and vegetable inks were used throughout.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company.
Both manufacturing mill and the Design Port olio is committed to planting printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are trees or every corporate communications Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
project, in association with Trees or Cities.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB
