FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2017 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by David Wild.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB.
The Companys Ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the FCA and traded on the Main Market of the LSE.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 25 December 2016.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwiseindicated.
The financial statements are prepared using the historic cost basis with the exception of the available-for-sale financial assetswhich are measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Please refer to the Directors report for further details.
Discontinued operations In the Groups financial statements, the results and cash flows of discontinued operations are presented separately from those of continuing operations.
An operation is classified as discontinued if it is a component of the Group that i has been disposed of, or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, and ii represents a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations or will be disposed of as part ofasingle co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations.
The discontinued operations results andcash flows relate to the formation of a German venture, Daytona JV Limited, in which the Group then acquired a 33.3% interest and the sale orclosure of the Groups directly managed German stores.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following standards are effective for this financial year but have not had significant impact on the reported financial performance or position ofthe Group: o amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments: the amendment defines performance condition and service condition to clarify various issues.
This amendment did not have an impact on the financial performance of the Group: o amendment to IFRS 3 Business Combinations: the amendment clarifies that all contingent consideration arrangements classified as liabilities or assets arising from a business combination must be subsequently measured at fair value through profit and loss whether or not they fall within the scope ofIFRS 9 or IAS 39 as applicable.
This amendment did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group: o amendment to IFRS 8 Operating Segments: the amendment clarifies that an entity must disclose the judgements made by management in applying the aggregation criteria in IFRS 8.12, including a brief description of operating disclosures that have been aggregated and the economic characteristics used to assess whether the segments are similar.
The amendment also clarifies that the reconciliation of segment assets to total assets is required to be disclosed only if the reconciliation is reported to the chief operating decision maker, similar to the required disclosures for segment liabilities.
See note 4 for further information: o amendment to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: the amendments are in relation to the revaluation method andthe proportionate restatement of accumulated depreciation amortisation.
As the Group does not apply a revaluation method this amendment did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group: and o amendment to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: the amendment clarifies that a management entity an entity which provides key management personnel services is a related party subject to the related party disclosures.
In addition, the entity that uses a management entity is required to disclose the expenses incurred for management services.
This amendment did not have an impact on the disclosures of the Group.
78 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgements have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements: o franchisees within the Dominos Pizza system pay a percentage of their sales into a central fund designed to build store sales through increased public recognition of the Dominos Pizza brand the Fund.
The Fund is managed for the benefit of franchisees in the system with the objective ofdriving revenues for the franchised stores.
The Fund is used to pay for national marketing strategies and promotional plans.
The Fund is planned tooperate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet: o as all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria as outlined in our accounting policy are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the Group income statement: o the assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any receivables and payables related to the Fund: and o the cash flows relating to the Fund are included within Cash generated from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
o Dominos Pizza Group plcs DPG associate company, Daytona JV Limited, acquired Joeys Pizza delivery chain in 2016, and is converting the Joeys Pizza stores to the Dominos brand.
The costs related to this conversion meet the definition of restructuring costs as included in our accounting policy and are therefore treated as non-underlying items.
Judgement is required to determine which costs are appropriately classified as non-underlying as included in our non-GAAP performance measures policy.
o Investments in associates undertaken during 2016 are treated as associate investments as operational control remains with the original operating management team in the Nordics and with Dominos Pizza Enterprises Limited DPE for the Daytona JV Ltd due to their majority share holding and voting rights.
The judgement has therefore been taken that the Group do not control the entities in accordance with IFRS 10. o Certain of the Groups historic share-based compensation arrangements dating from 2003 to 2010 involve a degree of estimation andjudgement inrespect of their employment tax treatment.
The Group has received advice from its tax advisers reconfirming the support for the non-taxable accounting treatment of these arrangements following HMRCs protective assessments in the current year and prior years relating to these historic schemes.
The beneficiaries of the arrangements, which amongst others include certain current and former Directors, have provided the Group with indemnities to settle potential future personal tax liabilities should they crystallise.
This uncertainty may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
It is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential impact on the financial statements.
The following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which could change in the next financial year and have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date: o Determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired in business combinations requires the use of estimates regarding thevalue of the intangible assets and deferred consideration payable.
These values are applicable in respect to the operation in Switzerland and are determined using discounted cash flows based on latest approved business plans.
Subsequent impairment reviews also require the use of estimates to value the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
These value in use calculations are rerun on an annual basis for goodwill or when there is an indicator of impairment for tangible and intangible fixed assets to determine whether there is any impairment to the carrying value of assets arising from business combinations.
For details see note 15. o The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection ofan appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees, as detailed in note 31. o Determining the fair value of the Market Access Fee MAF, which relates to the amounts payable by DPE toDominos Pizza Group plc in future years, requires judgement in the selection of an appropriate valuation input and the profitability assumptions underlying the business case on which the payment of the MAF instalments is based.
The business case valuation applies a discount rate to future cash flows as detailed in note 29.
Basis of consolidation The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up on a52-week basis to a Sunday either end of 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: through currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Where necessary adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align with the Group accounting policies.
All intercompany transactions and balances between Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated upon consolidation.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 2.
Accounting policies continued Interests in associates and joint ventures The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group has also entered into a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of agreements to share control over other entities and share of rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining significant influence on joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
Where the joint venture is established through an interest in a company, the Group recognises its interest in the entities assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Groups income statement reflects the Groups share of the associate or joint ventures results after tax.
The Group statement of comprehensive income reflects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the associate or joint venture outside profit and loss.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture are reflected in the statement of other comprehensive income.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the associate or joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the associate or joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Groups share of the associate or joint ventures profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Financial statements of associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the Group, to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made in the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
The Groups most significant functional currency is sterling.
Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying spot exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the same date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on translation are taken to the income statement, except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and are taken directly to a translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at the acquisition-date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of any contingent consideration deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in the income statement.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and, where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships orpost-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criteria are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
80 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill continued After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
When goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation, when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed ofin this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash generating unit retained.
Intangible assets Computer software Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised at the cost incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Internally developed computer software programmes are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identified and attributed to particular software programmes, measured reliably, and that the asset developed can be shown to generate future economic benefits.
These assets are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and ten years.
Master franchise fees Master franchise fees are fees paid towards the acquisition of the master franchise for the markets in which the Group operates.
In previous years, these were carried atcost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
The accounting policy on MFA useful life was reviewed during the year to reflect the commercial return of the asset and is now considered to be indefinite.
This judgement is based on the sufficiency of available evidence supporting the ability of the Group to renew the underlying agreements beyond their initial terms without incurring significant cost.
The change in useful economic life did not have material impact upon the financial statements for the current or prior years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Cost comprises theaggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line method on the following bases: o Freehold land Not depreciated o Freehold buildings 50 years o Assets under construction Not depreciated o Leasehold improvements Over the life of the lease o Fixtures and fittings Over 5 to 10 years o Supply Chain Centre equipment Over 3 to 30 years The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The majority ofassets within Supply Chain Centre equipment are being depreciated over ten years or more.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is derecognised.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prepaid short leasehold costs Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classified as current and non-current prepayments.
On initial recognition these assets are held at cost and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the lease.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Market Access Fee is classified as an available-for-sale financial asset and is measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised inother comprehensive income except for foreign exchange gains and losses, and impairment, which are recognised in profit or loss.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 2.
Accounting policies continued Leases Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
Allother leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Plant and equipment leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance income is recognised inthe income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount isthe higher of an assets or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events for which it is probable that an outflow ofeconomic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured.
The amount recognised asa provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, itscarrying amount is the present value of those cash flows if the impact of discounting is material.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist when the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is based onestimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
82 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have seven to 28-day terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is considered remote.
The Group provides interest-free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores.
The difference between the present value of loans recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated via the royalty income and Supply Chain Centre sales that will be generated.
These assets are amortised over the life of a new franchise agreement of ten years.
National advertising fund In addition to franchise fees, franchisees pay contributions which are collected by the Group for specific use within the national advertising fund.
TheGroup operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees with the objective of driving revenues for their stores.
The fund is specifically used to pay for marketing and advertising.
The fund is planned to operate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet within working capital.
As all fund contributions are designated for specific purposes and do not result in a profit or loss for the Group, revenue recognition criteria are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance cost.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases ofassets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability issettled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions: o where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: o in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and o deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or to equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 2.
Accounting policies continued Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff with defined contribution schemes.
The contributions are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Capital reserve own shares Dominos Pizza Group plc shares held by the Company and its Employee Benefit Trust EBT are classified in shareholders equity as Capital reserve own shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration net of returns, rebates and value-added taxes.
Franchisee rebates are recognised as an expense within revenue on an accruals basis on the expected entitlement which has been earned up to the balance sheet date.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Royalties Royalties are based on Dominos Pizza store sales to customers and are recognised as the income is earned.
Franchise fees The franchise fee is effectively a joining fee: it is non-refundable and no element of the franchise fee relates to subsequent services.
Revenue from franchisee fees is recognised when a franchisee opens a store for trading.
Sales to franchisees Revenue from sales to franchisees is recognised on delivery to stores.
Corporate store sales Revenue from pizza delivery is recognised on delivery to customers.
Sale of goods Supply Chain Centre and equipment sales are recognised on delivery to franchisees.
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight-line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Finance lease income Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other finance costs that the Group incurs.
The policy is adopted for all assets that meet the definition of qualifying assets under IAS 23.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when: o expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred: and o activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use.
For borrowing associated with a specific asset, the actual borrowing costs less any investment income on temporary investment of those borrowings are capitalised.
To the extent funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation shall be determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditure on that asset.
The capitalisation rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Share-based payments The Group provides benefits to employees including Executive Directors in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of the equity-settled transactions is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using a Stochastic model for awards with TSR-related performance conditions and a Black-Scholes model for SAYE awards and other awards with EPS-related performance conditions.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
84 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions and or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired andthe Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding increase in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
This includes anywhere non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details aregiven in note 13.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 3 January 2005.
Non-GAAP performance measures In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain measures that are not required under IFRS.
The Group believes that these additional measures, which are used internally, are useful to the users of the financial statements in helping them understand the underlying business performance, as defined in the key performance indicator section of the strategic report.
The principal non-GAAP measures the Group uses are underlying profit before tax, underlying earnings per share and system sales.
Underlying measures remove the impact of non-underlying items from earnings and are reconciled to operating profits, system sales measure the performance of the overall business, as defined in the key performance indicator section of the strategic report.
While the disclosure of non-underlying items and system sales is not required byIFRS, these items are separately disclosed either as memorandum information on the face of the income statement and in the segmental analysis, or in the notes to the accounts as appropriate.
Non-underlying items include restructuring costs, gains and losses in connection with changes in stake inassociated or joint venture undertakings, gains and losses on fairvalues of financial instruments and acquisition costs.
These items are not considered to be underlying as they are one-off business improvement costs incurred to ensure new associates or joint venture undertakings are operating effectively in the Group.
System sales represent the sum of all sales made by both franchisee and corporate stores in the United Kingdom, ROI and Switzerland to consumers.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations that are relevant to the Group, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
With the exception of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, none are anticipated to significantly impact the Groups results or assets and liabilities and are not expected to require significant amendments to disclosure.
The full financial impact and disclosure impact of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 are still to be finalised.
Effective for periods beginning on or after: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016 Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 International Accounting Standards IAS Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017 IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 January 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 3.
Revenue Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 Continuing operations 000 000 Royalties, franchise fees and sales to franchisees 326,454 288,464 Corporate store sales 15,550 11,698 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 18,491 16,491 Finance lease income 82 135 360,577 316,788 Discontinued operations Royalties, franchise fees and sales to franchisees 989 1,933 Corporate store sales 769 3,913 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 27 35 362,362 322,669 4.
Segmental information For management purposes, the Group is organised into four geographical business units, based on the territories governed by the MFA: the UK, Ireland, Switzerland and International Investments.
These are considered to be the Groups operating segments as the information provided to the chief operating decision makers, who are considered to be the Executive Directors of the Board, is based on these territories.
Revenue included in each includes all sales royalties, Supply Chain Centre sales, rental income and finance lease income made to franchise stores and by corporate stores located in that segment.
Segment results for the Ireland segment include both the ROI and Northern Ireland as both of these territories are served by the same Supply Chain Centre.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss.
Group financing including finance costs and finance revenue and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
In 2016 the Group made significant financial investments into overseas associated undertakings.
They comprise its investment in the Dominos operation in the Nordics, including Iceland, Norway and Sweden, which are managed by the same management team and new strategic associate arrangement with Dominos Pizza Enterprises Limited in the German Dominos operation.
This is the basis on which investment performance is reported to the DPG Board.
For segmental purposes these are classified as International Investments.
Unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents and taxation assets.
Unallocated liabilities include the share buyback obligation, bank revolving facility, deferred consideration and taxation liabilities.
At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Deferred tax asset 6,133 7,851 Cash and cash equivalents 23,091 52,860 Unallocated assets 29,224 60,711 Deferred consideration 2,865 Current tax liabilities 6,213 4,151 Deferred tax liabilities 360 115 Bank revolving facility 56,719 10,485 Share buyback obligation 10,000 Unallocated liabilities 73,292 17,616 86 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
There are no corresponding amounts in 2015.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 4.
Segmental information continued Major customers Annual revenue from two franchisees amounted to 76,906,000 2015: 50,153,000 and 67,409,000 2015: 54,864,000 respectively, arising from sales reported in the United Kingdom segment.
Group operating profit This is stated after charging: Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended 25 ended 27 ended 25 ended 27 ended 25 ended 27 December December December December December December 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4,946 3,362 65 4,946 3,427 Amortisation of prepaid lease charges 177 196 177 196 Amortisation of intangible assets 2,493 3,151 5 2,493 3,156 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 7,616 6,709 70 7,616 6,779 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments Land and buildings 20,351 18,094 258 20,351 18,352 Plant, machinery and vehicles 2,692 2,851 110 2,692 2,961 Total operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 23,043 20,945 368 23,043 21,313 Impairment loss reversal recognised on non-current assets 333 7 326 Net foreign currency loss gain 11 177 1 10 177 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 149,185 137,045 429 2,097 149,718 139,142 Losses gain on disposal of non-current assets 228 84 365 137 84 6.
Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Group and Company annual accounts 261 167 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries 169 109 Total audit fees 430 276 Audit-related assurance services 30 30 Other assurance services 60 Other services 186 210 Total audit and non-audit fees 646 576 Of which 6,600 2015: 2,000 relates to the Company.
Items excluded from non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax Non-underlying items included in operating profit 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Within share of post-tax losses of associates and joint ventures: Acquisition and store network conversion costs incurred by Daytona JV Limited 3,144 Acquisition and store network conversion costs Acquisition and store network conversion costs relate to the rebranding and associated costs in order to execute the conversion of the Joeys Pizza stores to comply with Dominos international brand standards.
Costs include 436,000 for writing off the Joeys Pizza brand name, 2,074,000 in relation to support for franchisee store fit-outs and 634,000 in relation to other costs.
These costs are considered non-underlying as they are one-off charges that would not give an accurate reflection of the Groups profit were they to be included in underlying profit.
These costs are net of tax and have no cash flow impact.
88 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
Employee benefits and Directors remuneration a Employee benefits expense 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Wages and salaries 35,337 34,456 Social security costs 3,192 2,945 Other pension costs 689 559 Share-based payment charge 2,186 1,328 41,404 39,288 Of the above employee costs 40,971,000 2015: 36,081,000 relates to continuing operations.
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 Administration 308 270 Production and distribution 334 277 Corporate stores 353 536 995 1,083 Continuing operations 911 773 Discontinued operations 84 310 995 1,083 b Directors remuneration 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Directors remuneration 1,737 2,163 Aggregate contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 62 79 Number of Directors accruing benefits under: defined contribution schemes 3 3 Additional information regarding Directors remuneration is included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 61.
Finance income Continuing operations 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Bank interest receivable 139 40 Interest on loans to franchisees 44 11 Interest on loans to associates and joint ventures 312 41 Foreign exchange 187 94 Other interest 30 48 Unwinding of discount 14 128 Total finance income 726 362 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 10.
Finance expense Continuing operations 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Bank revolving credit facility interest payable 1,002 182 Other interest payable 229 74 Unwinding of discount 19 124 Total finance expense 1,250 380 The finance expense relates to financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Total interest on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, including loan costs related to finance for franchisee capital development reported within cost of sales, is 1,320,000 2015: 511,000.
Taxation a Tax on profit on ordinary activities Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended 25 ended 27 ended 25 ended 27 ended 25 ended 27 December December December December December December 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 Tax charged in the income statement Current income tax: UK corporation tax: current period 15,544 13,026 1,756 986 17,300 12,040 adjustment in respect of prior periods 304 546 354 1,015 50 1,561 15,848 12,480 1,402 2,001 17,250 10,479 Income tax on overseas operations 618 430 864 919 1,482 1,349 Total current income tax charge credit 16,466 12,910 2,266 1,082 18,732 11,828 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 598 994 390 23 988 1,017 Effect of change in tax rate 296 375 130 62 426 437 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 9 405 39 624 30 219 Total deferred tax 903 964 481 709 1,384 1,673 Tax charge credit in the income statement 17,369 13,874 2,747 373 20,116 13,501 The tax charge credit in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Income tax expense credit 17,369 13,874 2,747 373 20,116 13,501 Tax relating to items credited charged to equity Reduction in current tax liability as a result of the exercise of share options 617 584 617 584 Origination and reversal of temporary differences in relation  539 996 539 996 Tax credit in the Group statement of changes in equity 78 1,580 78 1,580 There is no tax impact in relation to the foreign exchange differences in the statement of comprehensive income.
90 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
Taxation continued b Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax expense in the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 is higher 2015: lower than the statutory corporation tax rate of 20.00% 2015:20.25%.
The differences are reconciled below: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Profit before taxation on continuing operations 82,523 73,163 Profit before taxation on discontinued operations 9,409 10,917 Profit before taxation 91,932 62,246 Accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 20.00% 2015: 20.25% 18,386 12,605 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 561 1,871 Accounting depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 136 170 Adjustments relating to prior years 1,240 423 Impact of change in UK tax rate 30 437 Impact of other tax reliefs 99 832 Overseas losses carried forward 285 9 Other 52 6 Tax rate differences 415 330 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 20,116 13,501 Income tax attributable to continuing operations 17,369 13,874 Income tax attributable to a discontinued operation 2,747 373 20,116 13,501 Effective tax rate continuing and discontinued operations % 21.9 21.7 Underlying effective tax rate continuing operations % 20.3 19.0 In the Summer Budget on 8 July 2015, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced further changes to the corporation tax rates, which will have an effect on the Groups current and future tax position.
The changes announced were further reductions to the standard rate of corporation tax, with the rate set to be reduced to 19%, effective 1 April 2017.
A further reduction to 17% effective 1 April 2020 was also announced.
As a result, the relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured as appropriate.
c Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 25 December 2016, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2015: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associates, as there are no corporation tax consequences of the Groups UK, Irish or overseas subsidiaries or associates paying dividends to their parent companies.
There are also no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
d Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: At 25 December At 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items 5,427 7,404 Deferred tax arising in the UK and ROI on capital gains 92 83 Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 438 415 Deferred tax on continuing and discontinued operations 5,773 7,736 Less deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items discontinued operations 481 Deferred tax on continuing operations 5,773 7,255 Represented as: Deferred tax asset 6,133 7,851 Deferred tax liabilities 360 115 5,773 7,736 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 11.
Taxation continued d Deferred tax continued At 25 December At 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Gross movement in the deferred income tax account Opening balance 7,736 8,412 Tax debit credit to equity 539 997 Income statement charge 1,424 1,673 Closing balance 5,773 7,736 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items Accelerated Share-based capital Lease Goodwill and payments allowances inducements amortisation Provisions Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 28 December 2014 609 6,603 151 13 853 8,203 Credit to equity 996 996 Credit charge to income 298 1,453 26 666 1,795 At 27 December 2015 1,903 5,150 177 13 187 7,404 Debit to equity 539 539 Credit charge to income 455 2,069 14 190 1,438 At 25 December 2016 1,819 3,081 163 13 377 5,427 A deferred tax asset of 5,427,000 2015: 7,404,000 has been recognised on continuing operations to the extent that future taxable profits are expected to be in excess of the profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Group has tax losses of 9,300,000 2015: 5,600,000 which arose in relation to the Swiss business and are available to offset against future taxable profits in Switzerland.
A deferred tax asset of 706,000 2015: 446,000 has been recognised in relation to these taxable losses in Switzerland on the basis they are expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future.
Taxable losses that have arisen in the period in the German branch ofDominos Pizza Germany Limited are available to surrender as Group relief tothe UK Group and have been fully utilised.
Discontinued operations In December 2015, the Group agreed terms to dispose of the German operations and to enter a strategic associate arrangement with Dominos PizzaEnterprises DPE, by setting up a new entity, Daytona JV Limited Daytona, to be owned one-third by Dominos andtwo-thirds by DPE.
As part of the agreement Dominos sold 11 of its 20 German stores toDaytona with the remainder being closed.
As a result of the transaction, the Supply Chain Centre in Berlin and the head office in Germany also closed.
Daytona owns the master franchise rights for the Dominos brand in Germany and also acquired an existing German pizza chain, Joeys Pizza.
Consideration for the disposal was a combination of 1,273,000 935,000 received on completion, for the disposal of the stores and related assets by group subsidiaries plus a Market Access Fee MAF of up to25,000,000 21,159,000.
The Market Access Fee the MAF payable by Dominos Pizza Enterprises to Dominos Pizza Group plc is deferred consideration for the company divesting its interest in operating Dominos Pizza Stores in Germany and its exclusive access to the German market, held through its shareholding in DP Cyco Limited and its subsidiaries.
TheMAF is payable in instalments, which become due annually up to six years from the date of the transaction.
The payment of each instalment isdetermined by reference to Daytona achieving defined performance levels each calendar year.
The amount included as consideration for the Market Access Fee is its fair value, based on managements evaluation of future underlying profitability.
The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Revenue 1,387 5,881 Expenses underlying 2,162 9,192 Underlying loss before tax 775 3,311 Income expenses non-underlying 2,134 6,688 Gain on disposal 8,050 Profit loss before tax 9,409 9,999 Attributable tax charge credit 2,747 373 Net gain loss attributable to discontinued operations attributable to owners of the Company 6,662 9,626 92 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Discontinued operations continued Non-underlying income in 2016 relates to the release of provision.
In 2015 non-underlying expenses comprised redundancy costs of 701,000 andother closure costs of 5,987,000.
The gain on disposal in 2016 relates to the recognition of the fair value of the MAF.
During the year, the discontinued operation increased the Groups net cash flows by 8,223,000 2015: 3,540,000 receiving 1,300,000 2015:paying 792,000 in respect of investing activities and receiving 11,607,000 2015: nil in respect of financing activities.
The financing activities all relate to funding within the Group, which eliminate for the purposes of the Group cash flow statement.
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale were as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 935 Total classified as held for sale 935 Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale trade and other payables Net assets of disposal group 935 13.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary shares that would have been issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares into Ordinary shares.
Earnings 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 Continuing operations Notes 000 000 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 65,154 59,289 Non-underlying items included in operating profit Amounts included within share of post-tax result of associates and joint ventures 7 3,144 Underlying profit attributable to owners of the parent 68,298 59,289 Continuing and discontinued operations Continuing operations profit attributable to owners of the parent 65,154 59,289 Discontinued operations profit loss attributable to owners of the parent 6,662 9,626 Total profit attributable to owners of the parent 71,816 49,663 Weighted average number of shares At At 27 December 25 December 2015 2016 Number Number restated Basic weighted average number of shares excluding treasury shares 496,496,866 498,204,716 Dilutive effect of share options and awards 7,453,287 6,399,881 Diluted weighted average number of shares 503,950,153 504,604,597 The performance conditions relating to share options granted over 2,380,181 shares 2015: 1,894,686 have not been met in the current financial period and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period end have not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation.
There are no share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because they would be antidilutive 2015: nil.
See note 31 forfurther information on reversionary interests and share options.
Refer to note 30 for information regarding the sub-division of shares during the year.
Comparatives have been adjusted to show an accurate position.
Refer to note 11 of the Company section regarding distributions made otherwise than in accordance with the Companies Act.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 13.
Earnings per share continued Earnings per share 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 December 25 December 2015 Continuing operations 2016 restated Basic earnings per share 13.1p 11.9p Diluted earnings per share 12.9p 11.7p Underlying earnings per share: Basic earnings per share 13.8p 11.9p Diluted earnings per share 13.6p 11.7p Discontinued operations Basic profits losses per share 1.3p 1.9p Diluted profits losses per share 1.3p 1.9p Continuing and discontinued operations Basic earnings per share 14.5p 10.0p Diluted earnings per share 14.3p 9.8p 14.
Dividends paid and proposed 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Declared and paid during the year: Equity dividends on Ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2015: 3.92p 2014: 3.23p 19,533 16,039 Interim dividend for 2016: 3.50p 2015: 3.00p 17,430 14,967 Dividends paid 36,963 31,006 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM not recognised as a liability at 25 December 2016 or27December 2015 Final dividend for 2016: 4.50p 2015: 3.92p 22,249 19,513 Dividends per share have been restated to reflect the sub-division of shares in the year.
Refer to note 30 for more information.
94 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Intangible assets Franchise Goodwill fees Software Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost or valuation At 28 December 2014 4,505 13,997 13,451 503 32,456 Additions 54 6 5,048 5,108 Disposals 67 43 3 113 Foreign exchange on translation 67 193 18 144 Reclassified as assets held for sale 2,983 50 510 3,543 At 27 December 2015 1,643 13,693 17,928 500 33,764 Additions 8,389 8,389 Disposals 9,830 1,880 11,710 Foreign exchange on translation 269 435 77 781 At 25 December 2016 1,912 4,298 24,514 500 31,224 Depreciation and impairment At 28 December 2014 2,928 11,114 7,721 130 21,893 Provided during the year 252 2,854 50 3,156 Disposals 67 67 Impairment 55 5 220 280 Foreign exchange on translation 71 26 45 Reclassified as assets held for sale 2,983 50 510 3,543 At 27 December 2015 11,325 10,259 180 21,764 Provided during the year 2,458 35 2,493 Disposals 9,830 1,562 11,392 Foreign exchange on translation 85 65 150 At 25 December 2016 1,580 11,220 215 13,015 Net book value at 25 December 2016 1,912 2,718 13,294 285 18,209 Net book value at 27 December 2015 1,643 2,368 7,669 320 12,000 The carrying amount of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles has been allocated as follows: At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 Switzerland 000 000 Goodwill 1,912 1,643 Indefinite life intangibles 2,685 2,337 4,597 3,980 Switzerland The Group is obliged to test goodwill and indefinite life intangibles annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill and indefinite life intangibles might be impaired, due to the goodwill deemed to have an indefinite useful life.
In order to perform this test, management is required to compare the carrying value of the relevant cash generating unit CGU including the goodwill with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from a value in use calculation.
The key assumptions for the valuation are those regarding discount rates and expected changes to the level of sales in stores.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU.
Growth rates are based on market growth forecasts.
Changes in levels of AWUS average weekly unit sales are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates cash flows for the remaining term of the MFA based on the average long-term growth rate of 1.5% 2015: 1.5% for Switzerland, which does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant market.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from the Swiss CGU is 10.0% 2015: 10.6%.
The Group has also conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU carrying value including reducing sales level and changing discount rates.
In respect of the Swiss CGU, no reasonably expected change would give rise to an impairment charge.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 15.
Intangible assets continued Master franchise fees Master franchise fees consist of costs relating to the MFA for the UK, the ROI and Switzerland.
The UK and ROI MFA runs into perpetuity, with adevelopment clause that is renewable on a ten-year basis.
These have an indefinite deemed life.
They are tested annually for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
The Swiss MFA has been tested as described in the goodwill section.
The UK and ROI assumptions are not disclosed onthe grounds of materiality.
Included above are intangible assets with a carrying value of 285,000 2015: 320,000 in relation to interest-free loans given to franchisees toassist in the opening of new stores.
The difference between the present value of loan recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised asanintangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated.
The amortisation of intangible assets is included within administration expenses in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment continued Freehold land and buildings Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of 6,695,000 2015: 4,689,000 in respect of land which is not depreciated.
Capitalised financing costs Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of 951,000 2015: 972,000 of capitalised financing costs relating to the revolving credit facility used to finance the building of the new Supply Chain Centre and head office.
Tax relief on capitalised interest is claimed in full in the period in which the interest is paid.
For details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities see note 24.
Prepaid operating lease charges At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 Note 000 000 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,204 1,270 Additions 159 Refunded 48 6 Foreign exchange on translation 40 23 Amortisation 177 196 Balance at the end of the period 939 1,204 Analysed as follows: Non-current assets 821 1,010 Current assets 118 194 939 1,204 18.
Trade and other receivables Included in non-current assets: At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 11,456 355 Loans to franchisees 170 717 Other receivables 9,336 6,035 20,962 7,107 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Included in current assets: At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Trade receivables 12,524 7,956 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 3,212 1,878 Loans to franchisees 1,185 1,836 Other receivables 9,256 4,966 Prepayments and accrued income 16,215 12,111 42,392 28,747 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Included in current other receivables are balances due from franchisees for development of new stores of 5,642,000 2015: 1,634,000.
Included in non-current other receivables are rent free balances provided to franchises of 8,181,000 2015: 5,763,000.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 18.
Trade and other receivables continued Trade receivables Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: At 25 December At 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Sterling 10,452 7,439 Euro 1,856 502 Swiss franc 216 15 12,524 7,956 The euro-denominated receivables relate to franchisee receivables within the Groups Irish operations, the functional currency of which is the euro.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on seven to 28-day terms.
As at 25 December 2016, trade receivables at nominal value of175,410 2015:169,584 were provided for.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Neither Past due but not impaired past due nor Total impaired 30 days 30 days 000 000 000 000 As at 25 December 2016 12,524 9,934 2,061 529 As at 27 December 2015 7,956 7,191 329 436 Loans to franchisees Loans to franchisees are repayable within one to five years.
The loans are either interest free or bear interest on a quarterly basis at an average of3.0% above LIBOR and are repaid in monthly or quarterly instalments.
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures At 25 December At 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Amounts owed by associates 13,581 1,238 Amounts owed by joint ventures 1,087 995 14,668 2,233 Included within the balance due from associates are loan balances totalling 284,000 2015: 642,000 due from Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited and 11,455,000 2015: nil due from Daytona JV Limited.
Included within the balance due from joint ventures are loan balances of 417,000 due from DP Shayban Limited 2015: 446,000 and 211,000 due from Dominos Pizza West Country Limited 2015: 300,000.
The terms of the loans to Full House and the joint ventures are consistent with the loan terms provided to franchisees see above.
The remainder of the balance due from associates and joint ventures represents trading balances.
An analysis is provided below of the movement in trading and loan balances with associates and joint ventures: Trading Loan balance balance Total 000 000 000 At 28 December 2014 1,445 1,937 3,382 Movement in trading balance 601 601 Repayment of loan balance 548 548 At 27 December 2015 844 1,389 2,233 Movement in trading balance 1,456 1,456 Movement in loan balance 10,979 10,979 At 25 December 2016 2,300 12,368 14,668 The movement in the trading balance is included within the increase in receivables in cash generated from operations in the cash flow statement.
98 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Finance leases The balance shown in franchisee leasing consists of leases over store equipment granted to franchisees on terms of between one and five years bearing interest at fixed rates of an average of 5.8% 2015: 6.2%.
At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Net investment in finance leases 777 1,983 Analysis of net investment in finance leases Current 577 774 Non-current 200 1,209 777 1,983 Future minimum payments receivable: At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Not later than one year 603 866 After one year but not more than five years 212 1,291 815 2,157 Less: finance income allocated to future periods 38 174 777 1,983 20.
Investments in associates and joint ventures At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Investment in associates Balance as at 27 December 2015 1,919 1,381 Share of post-tax retained losses profits 1,537 538 Investments in associates 43,881 Foreign exchange movements 8,215 Investment in associates at 25 December 2016 52,478 1,919 Investment in joint ventures Balance as at 27 December 2015 6,066 5,789 Share of post-tax retained profits 207 277 Investment in joint ventures at 25 December 2016 6,273 6,066 Total investment in associates and joint ventures 58,751 7,985 a Investment in associates On 5 August 2016 the Group increased its stake to a 49% interest in Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited 2015: 41%, a private company that manages pizza delivery stores in the UK, with a cost of investment of 3,099,000.
On 1 February 2016 the Group made a 33.3% investment in Daytona JV Limited, a UK incorporated company which owns the Master Franchise Agreement for Dominos Germany, with a cost of investment of 13,831,000.
The Group has a put option over its interest in Daytona which can be exercised at any time after the financial year ending 31 December 2020 and Dominos Pizza Enterprises, the majority shareholder in Daytona JV Limited, has a call option over the Groups interest which can be exercised at any time after the financial year ending 31 December 2021.
The consideration payable upon exercise of either the put option or the call option will be based on an enterprise value determined from the capitalisation of future adjusted underlying EBITDA at an agreed multiple of between 10 and 12 times.
On 8 June 2016 the Group made a 49% investment in Pizza Pizza EHF, an Icelandic incorporated entity which owns the Master Franchise rights forIceland, Norway and Sweden with a cost of investment of 23,097,000, of which 1,077,000 is contingent consideration.
On 8 June 2016 the Group made a 20% investment in PPS Foods AB, a Swedish incorporated entity which operates the Dominos brand in Sweden, and a 20% investment in Pizza Pizza Norway AS, a Norway incorporated entity which operates the Dominos brand inNorway, with a cost of investment of 3,855,000.
As part of the Share Purchase agreement for the Nordic Investments there is a put option contingent on underlying EBITDA, and a call option granted to Dominos which can be exercised from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020.
The interests are accounted for as associates, using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements, as the Group has significant influence over each of its investments, but does not control the entity or have joint control.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 20.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued a Investment in associates continued Summarised financial information for the associates is set out below: Full House Restaurant Holdings Limited At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Summary of associates balance sheet Current assets 3,479 2,998 Non-current assets 16,884 11,365 Current liabilities 7,011 3,931 Non-current liabilities 6,436 6,032 Net assets 6,916 4,400 Groups share of interest in associated undertakings net assets 3,389 1,812 Goodwill and transaction costs 2,272 107 Groups carrying amount of the investment 5,661 1,919 The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments at 25 December 2016 or at 27 December 2015.
The associate requires the parents consent to distribute its profits.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Summary of associates revenue and profit Revenue 40,122 33,787 Profit after tax for the year 2,904 1,938 Total comprehensive income for the year 2,904 1,938 Groups share of profit for the year 1,255 794 Dividends received from the associate during the year 613 205 Daytona JV Limited At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Summary of associates balance sheet Current assets 7,468 Non-current assets 89,759 Current liabilities 8,351 Non-current liabilities 56,311 Net assets 32,565 Groups share of interest in associated undertakings net assets 10,855 Transaction costs 2,035 Groups carrying amount of the investment 12,890 The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments at 25 December 2016.
The associate requires the parents consent to distribute itsprofits.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Summary of associates revenue and profit Revenue 30,523 Underlying profit after tax for the year 2,371 Non-underlying loss after tax for the year 9,431 Total loss after tax for the year 7,060 Total comprehensive expense for the year 7,060 Groups share of loss for the year 2,353 Dividends received from the associate during the year 100 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued a Investment in associates continued Nordic associates 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 Pizza Pizza EHF PPS Foods AS Pizza Pizza Iceland Sweden Norway AS Total 000 000 000 000 Summary of associates balance sheet Current assets 4,802 466 4,233 9,501 Non-current assets 6,449 1,135 3,372 10,956 Current liabilities 4,306 2,078 4,158 10,452 Non-current liabilities 1,459 5,956 7,415 Net assets 5,486 477 2,509 2,500 Groups share of interest in associated undertakings net assets 2,688 215 1,129 1,344 Goodwill and transaction costs 27,629 2,477 2,477 32,583 Groups carrying amount of the investment 30,317 2,262 1,348 33,927 The associates have no contingent liabilities at 25 December 2016.
PPS Foods AS Sweden has a capital commitment of 3,600,000 SEK 349,000 for new stores Pizza Pizza EHF Iceland has a capital commitment of 12,000,000 ISK 85,000 for a new store.
The associates require the parents consent to distribute its profits.
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 Pizza Pizza EHF PPS Foods AS Pizza Pizza Iceland Sweden Norway AS Total 000 000 000 000 Summary of associates revenue and profit Revenue 19,353 155 5,548 25,056 Profit loss after tax for the year 1,778 426 1,125 227 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,778 426 1,125 227 Groups share of profit for the year 871 192 506 173 Dividends received from the associate during the year b Investment in joint ventures The Group has two 50% UK joint ventures, with Dominos Pizza West Country Limited West Country and DP Shayban Limited DP Shayban.
Both West Country and DP Shayban are accounted for as joint ventures using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements as the Group has joint control through voting rights and share ownership as well as being party to a joint venture agreement, which ensures that strategic, financial and operational decisions relating to the joint venture activities require the unanimous consent of the two joint venture partners.
Summary financial information of the joint ventures based on their IFRS financial statements is set out below: At 25 December 2016 At 27 December 2015 DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Summary of joint ventures balance sheets Current assets 1,969 3,359 5,328 1,282 2,391 3,673 Non-current assets 7,385 4,785 12,170 7,315 5,388 12,703 Current liabilities 2,412 1,588 4,000 1,122 1,506 2,628 Non-current liabilities 1,933 1,933 2,597 2,597 Net assets 5,009 6,556 11,565 4,878 6,273 11,151 Groups share of interest in associated undertakings net assets 2,504 3,278 5,782 2,439 3,136 5,575 Goodwill and transaction costs 52 439 491 51 440 491 Groups carrying amount of the investment 2,556 3,717 6,273 2,490 3,576 6,066 Within gross balance sheets: Current assets includes cash andcashequivalents 1,161 2,696 3,857 1,161 2,178 3,339 Current financial liabilities 502 355 857 502 502 Non-current financial liabilities 1,933 1,933 2,597 2,597 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 20.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued b Investment in joint ventures continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Summary of joint ventures statement ofprofitor loss Revenue 16,190 11,442 27,632 14,915 10,951 25,866 Profit after tax for the year 134 1,549 1,683 507 1,352 1,859 Total comprehensive income for the year 134 1,549 1,683 507 1,352 1,859 Groups share of profit for the year 67 774 841 254 676 930 Dividends received 200 200 285 285 Profit after tax for the year includes: Depreciation and amortisation 670 370 1,040 690 389 1,079 Interest income 2 2 Interest expense 69 10 79 88 12 100 Income tax expense 116 220 336 255 250 505 The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 25 December 2016 and 27 December 2015.
Both joint ventures cannot distribute their profits without the consent from the two venture partners.
Inventories At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Raw materials 258 330 Finished goods and goods for sale 8,982 5,878 Total inventories at lower of cost or estimated net realisable value 9,240 6,208 22.
Trade and other payables At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Included in current liabilities: Trade payables 22,769 9,500 Other taxes and social security costs 1,565 4,056 Other payables 1,883 1,013 Accruals 33,208 38,343 59,425 52,912 Included in non-current liabilities: Other payables 2,798 316 Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
102 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
Trade and other payables continued Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities: o trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on seven to 30-day terms: and o other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
Included in the current element of other payables is the national advertising fund NAF balance of 2,228,000 2015: 316,000 due to thedifference intiming between cash flows of the marketing activities committed to by the fund and contributions received from franchisees.
Totalcontributions made to the fund during the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 were 41,470,000 2015: 41,819,000.
Financial liabilities At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Current Current instalments due on other loans 596 943 Current instalments due on finance leases 72 45 668 988 Share buyback obligations 10,000 10,668 988 Non-current Bank revolving facility 56,719 10,485 Non-current instalments due on other loans 261 965 56,980 11,450 Banking facilities Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is 23,091,000 2015:52,860,000.
Bank revolving facility On 8 July 2016, the Group entered into a new 175.0m multicurrency revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Holdings plc andTheRoyal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
The previous 30.0m facility with Barclays Bank plc was repaid in full and cancelled.
Interest charged on the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.75% per annum above LIBOR when the Groups leverage is less than 1:1 up to 1.50% per annum for leverage above 2:1.
In addition a utilisation fee is charged on the facility if over one-third of the facility is utilised at 15% of the margin rate, and 30% if over two-thirds of the facility is utilised.
The facility expires on 18 July 2021.
Arrangement fees of 1,432,532 27 December 2015: 111,659 directly incurred in relation to the facility are included in the carrying value of the facility and are being amortised over the term of the facility.
The facility is secured by an unlimited cross-guarantee between the Company, Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DPRealty Limited, DP Pizza Limited, DP Group Developments Limited, DP Cyco Switzerland Limited and Dominos Pizza GmbH.
On the previous revolving credit facility interest was charged at 1.35% per annum above LIBOR in addition to a 0.5% utilisation fee.
Other loans Other loans include loans entered into to acquire assets which are then leased on to franchisees under finance lease agreements.
The Group hasanasset finance facility of 5,000,000 2015: 5,000,000 with a term of five years.
The balance drawn down on this facility and held within otherloans as at 25 December 2016 is 857,000 2015: 1,908,000.
The loans are repayable in equal instalments over a period of up to five years.
The loans are secured by a limited guarantee and indemnity by the Company and Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited limited to an annual sum of 300,000 and a mortgage charge over the assets financed.
The interest rate on these loans is fixed at an average of 5.9% 2015: 5.7%.
Share buyback obligation On 21 December 2016 the Group entered into an irrevocable non-discretionary programme with Numis Securities Limited to purchase up to a maximum of 10,000,000 of shares from 11 January 2017 to 21 February 2017.
This agreement entered into regarding share buybacks during theclose period has been recognised as a financial liability of 10,000,000.
The full obligation had been utilised by 21 February 2017.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 25.
Deferred and contingent consideration Deferred Contingent Total 000 000 000 At 28 December 2014 6,324 6,324 Paid during the period 3,517 3,517 Unwinding of discount 58 58 At 27 December 2015 2,865 2,865 Acquisition of associate 1,077 1,077 Paid during the period 2,884 2,884 Unwinding of discount 19 19 At 25 December 2016 1,077 1,077 On 1 July 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the Ordinary shares of Dresdner Kleinwort Leasing March 2 Limited Dominos Leasing, a private company based in England which provided funding in the form of finance leases to a number of corporate clients.
As a company with an established leasing trade, Dominos Leasing owns the leased equipment and is entitled to an ongoing rental income from each lease for the remaining term of that lease and it is entitled to certain tax reliefs from its ownership of that equipment.
On acquisition, the tax reliefs available had a total value of 29,240,000 and a deferred consideration of 15,364,000 was payable, the amount and timing of which depends on the amount and timing of the benefits to the Group arising from this tax relief.
The deferred consideration was payable until April 2016 at which point the final payment was made.
During the period the Group has utilised 5,738,000 2015: 7,032,000 of the capital allowances which were acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
Theutilisation of these capital allowances reduces the value of the deferred tax asset which was recognised on acquisition: however, it results in nooverall impact on the tax charge for the period as there is an equal and opposite reduction in the Groups corporation tax liability.
On 8 June 2016 the Group acquired a 49% shareholding in Pizza Pizza EHF on which contingent consideration was payable.
The fair value of the contingent consideration as at 25 December 2016 was estimated to be 1,077,000.
The contingent consideration is a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts For the stores in the franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease and then subletting the properties tothe franchisees.
These head leases have an average duration of between ten and 25 years.
Under the terms of the franchise agreement the franchisee is granted an initial period of ten years to operate a Dominos Pizza delivery store under the Dominos system.
Under the agreement, thefranchisee also has the option to renew for a further ten years at the end of the initial period provided at the time of the renewal the franchisee isnot in default ofanymaterial provision of the franchise agreement.
The property lease agreements contain an option for renewal, with such options being exercisable three months before the expiry of the lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of exercise.
In addition the Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of plant, machinery and equipment.
These leases have an average duration of between three and five years.
Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Not later than one year 23,335 20,386 After one year but not more than five years 85,825 71,954 After five years 176,574 128,865 285,734 221,205 Operating lease rentals where the Group is lessor Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Not later than one year 19,342 17,291 After one year but not more than five years 63,923 55,443 After five years 85,667 50,413 168,932 123,147 104 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
Provisions Onerous lease Restructuring provisions provisions Total 000 000 000 At 27 December 2015 4,264 3,064 7,328 Arising during the period 262 187 449 Utilised during the period 2,342 1,820 4,162 Released during the period 469 1,220 1,689 Impact of discounting 80 80 Foreign exchange on translation 456 212 668 At 25 December 2016 2,251 423 2,674 At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Current 1,457 6,113 Non-current 1,217 1,215 2,674 7,328 Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to the outstanding rent obligation for properties in the UK, the ROI and Germany.
These properties include sublets tocommercial tenants, properties for which a lease has been signed but no franchisee has been identified to operate the store such that the lease obligation has become onerous, along with stores for which the tenant is paying reduced rent and the Group expects to make a loss in relation to the lease.
The provision will be utilised over the remaining lease term on the properties identified which range between one and 24 years.
Of the amount arising in the year 84,000 2015: 2,486,000 relates to amounts provided in Germany due to discontinuation of operations.
Restructuring provisions 187,000 2015: 2,918,000 of the provision relates remaining obligations with regard to the discontinued German operation 2015: 2,918,000.
The remaining restructuring provision arose upon acquisition of Dominos Switzerland and relates to outstanding rent obligations for three stores which were being closed and relocated as well as other commitments arising from the restructuring plan such as relocation costs.
The total restructuring provision is expected tobe utilised within three years.
Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups financial risk management objectives consist of identifying and monitoring those risks which might have an adverse impact on the value ofthe Groups financial assets and liabilities or on reported profitability and on the cash flows of the Group.
The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise share buyback obligations, bank revolving facilities, other loans and finance leases.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables and cash, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group has not entered into any derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps or financial foreign currency contracts.
It is, and has been throughout 2016 and 2015, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken.
The Groups main treasury risks relate to the availability of funds to meet its future requirements and fluctuations in interest rates.
The treasury policyof the Group is determined and monitored by the Board.
The Group monitors its cash resources through short, medium and long-term cash forecasting, against available facilities.
Surplus cash is pooled into an interest bearing account with the Groups bankers.
The Group monitors its overall level of financial gearing monthly, with short and medium-term forecasts showing levels of gearing within targets.
It is the Groups policy not tohave high financial leverage, comparing net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are foreign currency risk, credit risk, price risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
Foreign currency risk The Group has invested in operations in the ROI and Switzerland and also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than sterling.
TheGroup has also invested in associates in Germany, Iceland, Sweden and Norway.
As a result, the value of the Groups non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange rates, the euro in particular.
The Group seeks tomitigate the effect of its currency exposures by agreeing fixed euro rates with franchisees and suppliers wherever possible.
The Board does not consider there to be any significant unmitigated foreign currency risk in relation to the Groups profit before tax.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 28.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Foreign currency risk continued The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in sterling against the euro, Icelandic Krona, Swedish Krona, Norwegian Krone exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
The impact on the Groups profit before tax is due to changes in the carrying value of euro-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a sterling functional currency and sterling-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a euro functional currency.
The impact on the Groups pre-tax equity is due to changes in carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is immaterial.
Effect on profit Effect on Change in before tax pre-tax equity EUR rate 000 000 2016 25% 3,960 2,578 -25% 4,950 3,223 2015 25% 37 -25% 54 Effect on profit Effect on Change in before tax pre-tax equity ISK rate 000 000 2016 25% 6,063 -25% 7,579 2015 25% -25% Effect on profit Effect on Change in before tax pre-tax equity SEK rate 000 000 2016 25% 452 -25% 566 2015 25% -25% Effect on profit Effect on Change in before tax pre-tax equity NOK rate 000 000 2016 25% 270 -25% 337 2015 25% -25% Credit risk Customers who trade on credit terms and obtain finance leasing and loans from the Group are predominantly franchisees and it is considered that the franchisee selection process is sufficiently robust to ensure an appropriate credit verification procedure.
In addition, trade receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
Since the Group trades only with franchisees that have been subject to the franchisee selection process and provide guarantees as required under thefranchisee agreements, there is no requirement for collateral.
It is Group policy that cash deposits are only made with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating in accordance with the Groups treasury policy to ensure that the Group is not exposed to unnecessary risk.
106 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation of its operations with cash collection targets set throughout the Group.
Allmajor investment decisions are considered by the Board as part of the project appraisal and approval process.
The Group aims tomaintain a good credit rating to facilitate fundraising.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 25 December 2016 and 27 December 2015 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than 3 to 1 to On demand 3 months 12 months 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Period ended 25 December 2016 Floating rate borrowings Bank revolving facility 56,719 56,719 Fixed rate borrowings Other loans fixed rate 149 447 261 857 Finance leases 18 54 72 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 58,843 582 2,798 62,223 Contingent consideration 1,077 1,077 Share buyback obligation 10,000 10,000 69,010 2,160 59,778 130,948 Less than 3 to 1 to On demand 3 months 12 months 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Period ended 27 December 2015 Floating rate borrowings Bank revolving facility 16 49 10,534 10,599 Fixed rate borrowings Other loans fixed rate 284 725 1,051 2,060 Finance leases 4 11 30 45 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 48,855 316 49,171 Deferred consideration 1,442 1,423 2,865 50,601 2,208 11,931 64,740 Interest rate risk The Board has a policy of ensuring a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings based on the best available rates.
Whilst fixed rate interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to benefit from a reduction in borrowing costs when market rates are declining.
Conversely, whilst floating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk as costs are impacted by changes in market rates.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the 52-week period ended 25December 2016 would decrease increase by 168,000 2015: increase decrease by 214,000.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to  rate borrowings.
There would be no impact on other comprehensive income.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 28.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it retains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 25 December 2016 and 27 December 2015.
At the AGM in 2014, a special resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its Ordinary shares.
During 2016 up to and including 25 December 2016 the Company purchased 2,932,500 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 25 48p under this authority at a total cost of10,072,000 with those Ordinary shares currently held in treasury.
This represents 0.59% of the Companys called up share capital as at 25 December 2016.
During 2016 the Group also engaged in share buybacks in which the shares were subsequently cancelled.
During 2016 up to and including 25 December 2016 the company purchased 6,144,714 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 25 48p at a total cost of 22,346,000.
TheCompany engages in share buybacks to create value for shareholders when cash flows permit and there is no immediate alternative investment use for the funds.
No share buybacks occurred in 2015.
The Group monitors the ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
The Group includes within adjusted net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings and bank revolving facilities, less cash and cash equivalents.
At At 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Other loans 857 1,908 Finance leases 72 45 Bank revolving facilities 56,719 10,485 Less: cash and cash equivalents 23,091 52,860 Net debt cash 34,557 40,422 Underlying EBITDA from continuing operations 93,807 79,890 Adjusted gearing ratio 0.4 0.5 For further commentary on cash flow, net debt and gearing see the strategic report.
Financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financialstatements: Carrying Carrying Fair Fair value value value value 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Net investment in finance leases 777 1,983 815 1,907 Available-for-sale financial assets 8,050 8,050 Financial liabilities Bank revolving facilities 56,719 10,485 56,719 10,485 Fixed rate borrowings 857 1,908 895 2,011 Contingent consideration 1,077 1,077 Share buyback obligations 10,000 10,000 Finance lease liabilities 72 45 72 45 The fair value of the net investment in finance leases has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at the market interest rate.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at a market rate of interest.
Management has determined that the fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and share buyback obligations approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of bank revolving facilities, fixed rate borrowings and finance lease liabilities are determined using a rate that reflects the entitys borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period.
The inputs used in these discounted cash flow calculations are at level 2 in the hierarchy.
Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
IFRS 13 requires the classification of financial instruments measured at fair value to be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to derive fair value.
108 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
Financial instruments continued Fair values continued The deferred consideration of 25,000,000 21,159,000 payable by Dominos Pizza Enterprises Limited referred to as the Market Access Fee inrespect of Dominos Pizza Group plc divesting its interests in operating Dominos Pizza Stores in Germany and its exclusive access to the German market, held through its shareholding in DP Cyco Limited and which becomes payable from 2017, is carried at a fair value of 9,512,000 8,050,000 within available-for-sale financial assets.
The deferred consideration is payable by instalments from 2017, the payment of each instalment being determined by reference to the German business achieving defined levels of EBITDA.
The inputs used to calculate the fair value of the Market Access Fee fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
Level 3 fair value measurements useunobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The fair value of the financial asset recognised is calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the appropriate discount rate for the German associated company.
The payments are calculated applying an income approach valuation methodology, considering different scenarios of projected EBITDA, weighted by the probability of each scenario.
The fair value is based on a mid-point in the range of probable fair value outcomes of 8,200,000 to 10,200,000 based on a range of EBITDA forecasts.
Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuation: Significant unobservable inputs Range Sensitivity of the input to the fair value 0.5% increase or decrease in the WACC would result in a decrease WACC 8.5% to 9.5% orincrease in fair value of 200,000.
The inputs used to the calculate the fair value of the contingent consideration fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
The fair value of the contingent consideration recognised is calculated based upon expected EBITDA performance with a maximum cap.
The fair value is determined to be the maximum of 1,077,000.
Share capital and reserves Authorised share capital At At 27 December 25 December 2015 2016 restated Ordinary shares of 25 48p each: number 768,000,000 768,000,000 value 4,000,000 4,000,000 Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital At 25 December 2016 At 27 December 2015 Number Number restated At 27 December 2015 and 28 December 2014 500,408,064 2,606,286 497,728,596 2,592,335 Issued on exercise of share options 4,410,144 22,970 2,679,468 13,951 Share buybacks 6,144,714 32,004 At 25 December 2016 and 27 December 2015 498,673,494 2,597,252 500,408,064 2,606,286 At the Annual General Meeting held on 20 April 2016, a resolution was tabled and passed to subdivide the 256,000,000 Ordinary shares of 1.5625p each, both issued and unissued, into 768,000,000 Ordinary shares of 25 48ths of a penny each.
During the period 4,410,144 2015: 2,679,468 Ordinary shares of 25 48p each with a nominal value of 22,970 2015: 13,951 were issued between 306.50p 2015:35.77p and 383.13p 2015: 178.2p for a total cash consideration received of 7,497,000 2015: 3,572,000 to satisfy the share options that were exercised.
During the year the Company bought back a total of 9,077,304 Ordinary shares of 25 48p each after adjusting for the 3 for 1 share split on 27June2016 for a total value of 32,418,000 including costs of 176,000.
Of these shares, 6,144,714 were cancelled and 2,932,590 were bought back and held as treasury shares.
The average price for which these shares were purchased was 467.30p.
Nature and purpose of reserves Share capital Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Companys Ordinary shares of 25 48p each.
Share premium The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Companys 25 48p Ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve includes the nominal value of shares bought back by the Company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 30.
Share capital and reserves continued Nature and purpose of reserves continued Capital reserve own shares This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT and shares held by the Company as treasury shares.
The shares held bytheEBT were purchased in order to satisfy potential awards under the Reversionary LTIP.
During the period the Company acquired 2,932,590 of its own shares 2015: nil.
The shares are held as treasury shares.
The Company has the right to reissue these shares at later date.
The EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
The Group will meet the expenses of the EBT as and when they fall due.
Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
Share-based payments The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 was 2,186,000 2015: 1,328,000.
This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The comparative figures in this note have been restated to reflect the share split in the period, as outlined in note 30.
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 LTIP At the 2012 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance shares.
Awards are approved and granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee to Senior Executives and other employees.
Awards are capable ofvesting within a three-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled.
At 25 December 2016, there were 2012 LTIP awards over 3,740,492 2015: 4,476,039 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 25 December 2016 was 4.3 years 2015: 6.3 years.
The weighted average share price for options exercised during 2016 was 341.29p 2015: 398.92p.
2016 Long Term Incentive Plan 2016 LTIP At the 2016 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance shares.
Awards are capable of vesting within a three to five-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled.
During the period 1,602,000 awards were granted 2015: nil.
At 25 December 2016, there were 2012 LTIP awards over 1,602,000 2015: nil shares inDominos Pizza Group plc.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 25 December 2016 was 2.8 years 2015: n a.
There were no options exercised during 2016 2015: nil.
The fair value of options granted is estimated at the date of granting using Stochastic and Black-Scholes models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which they were granted.
Total shareholder return TSR is generated for the Company and the comparator group at the end of the three-year performance period.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options isindicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the period ended 25 December 2016: 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 Weighted average fair value 215.18p Weighted average share price 349.11p Weighted average exercise price 0.00p Expected dividend yield 2.01%2.17% Risk-free rates 0.13%0.62% Expected volatility 25.91%31.29% Further information on the Companys 2012 and 2016 LTIP awards are given in the Executive Director policy table on pages 44 to 47 of the Directors remuneration report.
Employee share options On 23 March 2004, the Company established the Dominos Pizza Group plc Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme EMI Scheme.
All employees are eligible for grants of options under this scheme, which is approved by the Board.
Prior to 2011, the options vested over a three-year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that the growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share during each of the three years following the date of grant exceeds growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 3%.
For 2011 and 2012 the options vest over a three-year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that real growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share, during each of the three years following the date of grant, exceeds 3%.
110 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
Share-based payments continued Employee share options continued The options lapse after ten years or in certain other circumstances connected with leaving the Company.
There are no cash settlement alternatives and all awards are equity settled.
No options were granted during the period ended 25 December 2016 2015: nil.
Sharesave scheme During 2009 the Group introduced a Sharesave scheme giving employees the option to acquire shares in the Company at a 20% discount.
Employees have the option to save an amount per month up to a maximum of 500 and at the end of three years they have the option to purchase shares in the Company or to take their savings in cash.
The contractual life of the scheme is three years.
The weighted average fair value of each option granted in 2016 was 190.74p 2015: 186.47p.
Additional cash flow information Analysis of Group net debt At At 27 December Cash Exchange Non-cash 25 December 2015 flow differences movements 2016 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 52,860 29,364 405 23,091 Bank revolving facility 10,485 44,200 1,840 194 56,719 Finance leases 45 36 9 72 Other loans 1,908 1,051 857 Net cash debt 40,422 72,549 2,236 194 34,557 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 32.
Additional cash flow information continued Analysis of Group net debt continued At 28 December Cash Exchange Non-cash At 27 December 2014 flow differences movements 2015 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 33,743 19,628 511 52,860 Bank revolving facility 5,447 4,698 287 53 10,485 Bank loans 15,000 15,000 Finance leases 60 13 2 45 Other loans 2,278 370 1,908 Net cash debt 10,958 30,313 769 53 40,422 33.
Capital commitments At 25 December 2016, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted to 5,935,000 2015: 861,000 for the Group.
Contingent liabilities Pursuant to the relevant regulation of the European Communities Companies: Group Accounts Regulations, 1992 the Company has guaranteed theliabilities of the Irish subsidiary, DP Pizza Limited, and as a result the Irish company has been exempted from the filing provisions in section 7, Companies Amendment Act 1986 of the ROI.
Related party transactions The financial statements include the financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc and the subsidiary and associated undertakings listed below.
Country of Proportion of voting Name of company incorporation rights and share capital Registered office Directly held subsidiary undertakings DP Capital Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Cyco Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Rigas, 4, Omega Court, Floor 1, 3095, Limassol, Cyprus DP Cyco Switzerland Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Rigas, 4, Omega Court, Floor 1, 3095, Limassol, Cyprus DP Group Developments Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Realty Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DPG Holdings Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Indirectly held subsidiary undertakings Deutsche Dominoid GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Erkrather Strae 162, 40233 Dusseldorf, Berlin, Germany Dominos Leasing Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Dominos Pizza Isle of Man Limited Isle of Man 100% Ordinary First Floor, Jubilee Buildings, Victoria Street, Douglas IM12SH, Isle of Man Dominos Pizza Germany Holdings Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Dominos Pizza Germany GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Erkrather Strae 162, 40233 Dusseldorf, Berlin, Germany Dominos Pizza Germany Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Dominos Pizza GmbH Switzerland 100% Ordinary Europastrasse 19, 8152 Glattbrugg, Switzerland Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Newcastle Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Pizza Limited ROI 100% Ordinary Unit 1B Toughers Business Park, Newhall, Naas Co. Kildare, Ireland DP Realty Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Erkrather Strae 162, 40233 Dusseldorf, Berlin, Germany HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Ludgeriplatz 9, 48151 Mnster, Hamburg, Germany Associate undertakings Daytona JV Limited England 33.3% Ordinary 3rd Floor 1 Ashley Road, Altrincham, Cheshire, WA14 2DT, United Kingdom 1 Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom 3 Pizza Pizza EHF Iceland 49% Ordinary Louholar 2-6, 11 Reykjavik, Iceland 3 Pizza Pizza Norway AS Norway 44.99% Ordinary Nesveien 13, 1344 Haslum, Norway 112 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35.
Related party transactions continued Country of Proportion of voting Name of company incorporation rights and share capital Registered office Indirectly held subsidiaries  Agentur fur Wertbung und Germany 33.3% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099 Hamburg, Germany EtatverwaltungGmbH B N Sandy Newcastle Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom B N Sandy Cannock Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Bristol Curry Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Classic Crust Limited England England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Dancing Tiger Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Daytona Germany GmbH Germany 33.3% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099 Hamburg, Germany 4 Dominos Pizza Deutschland GmbH Germany 33.3% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099 Hamburg, Germany Freshname 845 Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Full House Restaurants Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom House Special Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom 2 J M R Foster Winsford Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom 2 J M R Foster Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom 3 Pizza Pizza Sweden AB Sweden 44.99% Ordinary Emil Lonnroths vag 19, 168 46 Bromma, Sweden Sherston Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Surrey Pizzas Limited England 49% Ordinary c o Richard & Company, 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom The Woodpecker Inn Ltd England 49% Ordinary c o Richard & Company, 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Joint venture undertakings Dominos Pizza West Country Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Shayban Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Indirectly held subsidiaries of joint ventureundertakings AKS Partners Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DA Hall Trading Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DAHT Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Dijla Newport Limited England 50% Ordinary 23 Neptune Court, Vanguard Way, Cardiff, CF24 5PJ, United Kingdom DP Beach A Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Beach B Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Mesan Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom MLS Limited England 50% Ordinary Aldreth, Pearcroft Road, Stonehouse, GL102JY, United Kingdom Zens Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom 1 The Group acquired an additional 8% of the shareholding of Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited during 2016.
2 Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited acquired 100% of the shareholding of J M R Foster Limited and J M R Foster Winsford Limited during 2016.
The Group indirectly owns 49% of both companies as a result of this acquisition.
3 The Group acquired Pizza Pizza Sweden AB, Pizza Pizza EHF and Pizza Pizza Norway AS during 2016.
Pizza Pizza Sweden AB is owned 20% indirectly through Pizza Pizza Norway AS and 24.99% indirectly through Pizza Pizza EHF.
Pizza Pizza Norway AS is owned 20% directly through Pizza Pizza Sweden AB and 24.99% directly through Pizza Pizza EHF.
4 Joeys Pizza International GmbH, Joeys Pizza Service Germany GmbH and Joeys Filial und Pacht GmbH merged to form Dominos Pizza Deutschland GmbH during 2016.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 35.
Related party transactions continued During the period the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties.
For details of loan balances due from associates please refer to note 18.
Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding with related parties, are as follows: Amounts Sales to owed by related related party party 000 000 Related party Associates and joint ventures 25 December 2016 28,178 2,300 27 December 2015 24,390 844 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales and purchases between related parties are made at normal market prices.
Outstanding balances with entities are unsecured and interest free and cash settlement is expected within seven days of invoice.
The Group has not provided for or benefited from any guarantees for any related party receivables or payables.
During the financial period ended 25 December 2016, the Group has made a provision of nil for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties 2015: nil.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 25 December 27 December 2016 2015 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 4,219 3,632 Post-employment benefits 242 147 Share-based payment 1,776 866 6,237 4,645 The table above includes the remuneration costs of the Directors of the Company and the Directors of Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, Dominos Pizza Germany Limited and Dominos Pizza GmbH.
Included in short-term employee benefits above are termination payments totalling 258,000 2015: 179,000.
Historic distributions to directors As disclosed in note 10 to the Company Financial statements, during the year the Directors became aware that payment of certain of its dividends and purchases of certain of its own Ordinary Shares in certain Relevant Financial Periods from 2000 to 2016 were made otherwise than in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, the Directors became aware that it gave assistance to its Employee Benefit Trust on a number of occasions which did not comply with the requirements of the Act.
At a General Meeting of the Companys shareholders held on 10 January 2017, a resolution was passed which authorised the appropriation ofdistributable profits to the payment of the relevant distributions and removed any right for the Company to pursue shareholders or directors forrepayment.
This constituted a related party transaction under IAS 24.
The Directors who held shares in the Company would have received dividends in relation to their shareholdings which would have included certain of the unlawful distributions made.
In addition, the financial assistance provided to the EBT to purchase shares to satisfy awards of LTIPs were issued to previous Directors of the Company.
114 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
