FINANCIALS SECTION 3: OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL This section gives further information on the operating assets we use to generate revenue and the short-term liquid assets and liabilities, managed during day-to-day operations, that comprise our working capital balances.
3.1 Property, plant and equipment This note shows the cost, depreciation and net book value of the physical assets controlled by us that we use in our businesses to generate revenue.
The cost of an asset is what we paid to purchase or construct the asset.
Depreciation reflects the usage of the asset over time and is calculated by taking the cost of the asset, net of any residual value, to the income statement evenly over the useful economic life of the asset.
Anassets net book value is its cost less any depreciation including impairment, if required charged to date.
Additions in 2016 include a further 29 million 2015: 90 million on our biomass transformation project, which is now largely complete and in line with initial expectations on timing and overall cost.
At Drax Power Station we now have three fully converted units running on biomass fuel, the third of which completed its conversion following the award of the CfD in December 2016.
Upstream, in our US-based wood pellet manufacturing business, both pellet plant facilities and the port facility ran commercial operations for the first full year.
Accounting policy Property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost.
Cost comprises the purchase price after deducting trade discounts and rebates, any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, and the estimate of the present value of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment in value.
We construct many of our assets as part of long-term development projects.
Assets that are in the course of construction are not depreciated until they are ready for us to use in the way intended.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write down assets to their residual value evenly over the estimated useful lives UEL of the assets from the date of acquisition where relevant, limited to the expected decommissioning date of the power station currently expected to be 2039.
The table below shows the range of useful lives at the date of acquisition and the average remaining useful life at the balance sheet date of the main categories of asset we own in years: Average UEL Range of remaining UELs Freehold buildings 23 832 Plant and equipment Electricity generation plant 19 332 Biomass specific assets 21 426 Coal specific assets 23 332 Pellet production plant 19 520 Other plant, machinery and equipment 15 230 Decommissioning asset 23 35 Plant spare parts 23 Up to 35 Freehold land, held at cost, is considered to have an unlimited useful life and is not depreciated.
Electricity generation plant refers to core electricity generation assets at Drax Power Station which are fuel agnostic.
Biomass-specific and coal-specific assets are those assets that are only necessary to support electricity generation from the specified fuel and include fuel storage and distribution systems.
Within the plant and equipment categories shorter lives are attributed to components that are overhauled and upgraded as part of rolling outage cycles.
The majority of assets within these categories have a remaining useful life in excess of 15 years.
Plant spare parts are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the power station.
Costs relating to major inspections, overhauls and upgrades to the power station are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, if the recognition criteria are met: namely, when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually, taking into account regulatory change and commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear.
Residual values are based on prices prevailing at each balance sheet date.
Any changes are applied prospectively.
137 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SECTION 3: OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL CONTINUED 3.1 Property, plant and equipment continued Critical judgement areas The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment where there has been a trigger event that is, an event which may have resulted in impairment by assessing the present value of estimated future cash flows and net realisable value compared with net book value.
The calculation of estimated future cash flows and residual values is based on managements reasonable estimates of future prices, output and costs, and is therefore subjective.
Estimated useful lives are based on past experience, future replacement cycles and other available evidence: however an inherent degree of judgement remains.
Asset lives are reviewed annually at each balance sheet date.
As part of the most recent annual review of asset lives, the estimated useful life of coal-specific assets at Drax Power Station will be revised with effect from 1 January 2017.
On 9 November 2016 the Government announced a consultation on the future closure of unabated coal-fired generation.
Having considered this event, management concluded that coal generation will cease during 2025, but that the three coal units will be retained for conversion to biomass-fuelled generation in the period to 2039.
This results in the shortening to 2025 of the useful lives of the coal-specific assets which will not be required to support generation after this date.
This change is applied prospectively, from the point of managements decision, and will result in an increase of approximately 27 million per annum in depreciation charges from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2025.
The useful lives of electricity generation plant currently fuelled by coal are unaffected by this change.
These assets can be utilised using alternative fuel sources without material modification.
At each balance sheet date the Group reviews its property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that these assets may be impaired.
Accounting policies in respect of impairment, along with details of the impairment review conducted during 2016, are set out in note 2.4.
Additions to assets in the course of construction were 88.6 million in 2016.
138 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 FINANCIALS 3.1 Property, plant and equipment continued Plant and equipment includes assets held under finance lease agreements with a carrying value at 31 December 2016 of 1.6 million 2015: 1.6 million.
Additions during the year include nil 2015: 1.9 million of capitalised borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of specific assets.
3.2 ROC and LEC assets We earn ROC assets, which are accredited by the Office for Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem, as a result of burning sustainable compressed wood pellets to generate electricity.
This note sets out the value of these assets that we have earned but not yet sold.
As we generate more of our electricity by burning sustainable compressed wood pellets, the volume and therefore the total value of ROC assets we have generated has increased.
With the approval of the CfD in December 2016, total ROC generation is expected to reduce in 2017.
Haven Power provides us with a credit-efficient and timely route to market for these ROCs, as do the ROC monetisation facilities described in note 7.1.
Following the Governments decision to remove the Climate Change Levy exemption for power generated from renewable sources, as of 1 August 2015 we no longer earn LECs for electricity generated from sustainable compressed wood pellets.
Accounting policy ROCs are recognised as current assets in the period they are generated and are initially measured at fair value based on anticipated sales prices.
The value of ROCs earned is recognised in the income statement as a reduction in fuel costs in that period.
Where our retail activities incur an obligation to deliver ROCs to Ofgem, that obligation is provided for in the period incurred.
At each reporting date the Group reviews the fair value of ROC assets generated but not sold against updated anticipated sales prices including, where relevant, agreed forward sale contracts and taking into account likely utilisation of ROCs generated to settle our own ROC obligations.
Any impairments required are recognised in the income statement in the period incurred.
Critical judgement areas The fair values and net realisable values of ROCs referred to above are calculated with reference to assumptions regarding future sales prices in the market, taking into account agreed forward sale contracts where appropriate.
Historic experience indicates that the assumptions used in the valuation are reasonable: however actual sales prices may differ from those assumed.
ROC valuations also include an estimate of the future benefit that may be obtained from the ROC recycle fund at the end of the compliance period.
The recycle fund provides a benefit where Supplier buy-out charges incurred by Suppliers who do not procure sufficient ROCs to satisfy their obligations are returned to renewable generators on a pro-rata basis.
The estimate is based on assumptions about likely levels of renewable generation and supply over the compliance period and is thus subject to some uncertainty.
The Group utilises external sources of information in addition to its own forecasts in calculating these estimates.
Past experience indicates that the values arrived at are reasonable but they remain subject to possible variation.
ROCs LECs Total m m m Fair value and carrying amount: At 1 January 2015 173.8 10.7 184.5 Earned from generation 482.1 34.0 516.1 Purchased from third parties 16.4 3.8 20.2 Utilised by our retail business sold to third parties 406.6 44.1 450.7 At 1 January 2016 265.7 4.4 270.1 Earned from generation 535.8 535.8 Utilised by our retail business sold to third parties 543.9 4.4 548.3 At 31 December 2016 257.6 257.6 Recognition of revenue from sales of ROCs and LECs is described in further detail on page 128.
139 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SECTION 3: OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL CONTINUED 3.3 Inventories We hold stocks of fuels and other consumable items that we use in the process of generating electricity, and raw materials used in the production of compressed wood pellets.
This note shows the cost of coal, biomass, other fuels and plant consumables that we held at the end of the year, including items at Drax Power Station, our facilities in the US and those owned by us but stored in off-site locations.
Accounting policy Our raw materials and fuel stocks are valued at the lower of the weighted average cost to purchase and net realisable value.
The cost of fuel stocks includes all direct costs and overheads incurred in bringing the fuel to its present location and condition, including the purchase price, import duties and other taxes including amounts levied on coal under the UK carbon price support mechanism and transport handling costs.
Critical judgement areas Whilst value is largely based on observable costs, given the storage and handling characteristics of coal and biomass, an element of judgement is inherent in calculating the volume of fuel stocks owned by the Group at any given time.
Both coal and biomass stocks are weighed when entering, moving around or exiting sites using technology regularly calibrated to industry standards.
Fuel burn in the electricity generation process is calculated using a combination of weights and thermal efficiency calculations to provide closing stock volumes.
Both calibrated weighers and efficiency calculations are subject to a range of tolerable error.
Coal stocks are verified by an independent stock survey carried out by a suitably trained specialist, and a provision is made where the survey indicates a lower level of stock than indicated by the methods described above.
Despite being an independent process, the survey depends on estimates and assumptions and as a result actual values may differ.
The characteristics of biomass require specialist handling and storage.
On-site biomass is stored in sealed domes with a carefully controlled atmosphere for fire prevention purposes.
Biomass stock is surveyed using regularly calibrated state-of-the-art RADAR scanning technology.
However, this survey remains subject to a tolerable error range.
Experience indicates that the estimates and assumptions made by management in calculating stock volumes are reasonable.
However, actual values may differ from initial calculations.
As at 31 December 2016 2015 m m Coal 66.4 89.4 Biomass 197.5 118.7 Other fuels and consumables 23.6 15.9 287.5 224.0 Inventories of biomass include 2.3 million of fibre and other raw materials utilised in the production of compressed wood pellets 2015:2.0million and 2.0 million of work in progress 2015: 1.8 million in our biomass supply business.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in the year ended 31 December 2016 was 1,173.5 million 2015: 1,306.9 million.
3.4 Trade and other receivables Trade receivables represent amounts owed to us by our customers for goods or services we have provided but not yet been paid for.
Other receivables include accrued income, which is income earned in the period but not yet invoiced, largely in respect of power delivered that will be invoiced the following month, and prepayments, which are amounts paid by the Group for which we are yet to receive the relevant goods or services in return e. g. insurance premiums relating to periods after the balance sheet date.
Accounting policy Trade and other receivables, given their short tenor, are measured at cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable.
140 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 FINANCIALS 3.4 Trade and other receivables continued As at 31 December 2016 2015 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 87.0 99.5 Accrued income 100.0 157.0 Prepayments and other receivables 105.9 62.8 292.9 319.3 Trade receivables principally represent sales of electricity to counterparties within both our generation and retail businesses.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had amounts receivable from four 2015: two significant counterparties within the generation business, representing 46% 2015: 41% of trade receivables, both of which paid within 15 days of receipt of invoice in line with agreed terms.
Of total trade receivables at 31 December 2016, 33.4 million 2015: 41 million relates to retail power sales.
The risk profile of retail debt is different from that of the generation business with a larger volume of counterparties, and hence a lower concentration of credit risk, with different payment terms.
All past-due receivables are assessed against the Groups credit risk policies for indicators of impairment and provisions made where appropriate.
The value of retail debts that are past-due and not provided against, in accordance with this assessment, is not material.
Accordingly, management does not consider there to be any requirement for further provisions in excess of the normal provision for doubtful debts of 4.0 million 2015: 4.9 million.
This provision, which largely relates to retail receivables, has been determined with reference to past default experiences in line with our policies.
Credit and counterparty risk are both discussed in further detail in note 7.1.
The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts is laid out in the following table: Years ended 31 December 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 4.9 6.8 Receivables written off 3.3 5.0 Provision for receivables impairment 2.4 3.1 At 31 December 4.0 4.9 3.5 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables represent amounts we owe to our suppliers for goods and services provided, tax authorities and other creditors that are due to be paid in the ordinary course of business.
We make accruals for amounts that will fall due for payment in the future as a result of our activities in the current year e. g. fuel we have received but for which we have not yet been invoiced.
Accounting policy Trade and other payables, given their short tenor, are measured at cost.
As at 31 December 2016 2015 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade payables 87.4 41.7 Fuel accruals 77.6 131.4 Other accruals 341.7 260.8 Other payables 62.1 54.1 Amounts payable for acquisitions note 5.1 23.1 591.9 488.0 Other accruals includes 166 million 2015: 133 million in relation to the Groups obligation to deliver ROCs arising from its Retail activities.
The Group recognises a liability in respect of its unsettled obligations to deliver emissions allowances under the EU Emission Trading Scheme ETS.
Accruals at 31 December 2016 include 2.8 million 2015: 10.0 million with respect to the Groups estimated net liability to deliver CO 2 emissions allowances.
Allowances are purchased in the market and are recorded at cost.
141 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
