FINANCIALS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Introduction Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements provide detailed information These consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial about the financial performance Consolidated income statement, results of the Company and of all entities controlled by the Company, financial position Consolidated balance sheet, and cash flows its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
The Company Consolidated cash flow statement of Drax Group plc the Company owns 100% of the equity of all subsidiaries.
together with all of the entities controlled by the Company collectively, the Group.
The impact of all intra-Group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of The notes to the financial statements provide additional information during the year are included in the Consolidated income statement on the items in the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated from the date the Company gains control until the date when the balance sheet and Consolidated cash flow statement.
The notes Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
include explanations of the information presented.
In general, the additional information in the notes to the financial statements is Accounting policies required by law, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or Those accounting policies that are material to our financial statements other regulations to facilitate increased understanding of the primary are described in note 8.3 to the financial statements or, where specific statements set out on pages 120 to 124. to an individual component of the financial statements, in the relevant note see contents on page 119.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS We have not changed any of our accounting policies in the period: as adopted by the European Union and therefore the consolidated however we have adopted a material new policy in respect of financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
accounting for the Contract for Difference CfD see page 118.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost A full listing of new standards, interpretations and pronouncements basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities that have been under IFRS applicable to these financial statements is presented in measured at fair value.
The application of these new requirements has not had a material effect on the financial statements.
Going concern The Groups business activities, along with future developments that Judgements, estimates and uncertainties may affect its financial performance, position and cash flows, are set The preparation of financial statements requires management to out within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 61 of this document.
exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported In the viability statement on page 54 the directors state that they amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may havea reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue differ from these estimates.
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next threeyears.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates Consequently, the directors also have a reasonable expectation are revised and in any future periods affected.
thatthe Group will continue in existence for the next 12 months and, therefore, have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are set financial statements.
out below and in more detail in the related notes.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The substantial depreciation of Sterling against the US dollar and The judgements that carry the most significant risk of an outcome that Euroduring the second half of 2016 has had a material impact on our differs from the amount recognised in the financial statements are financial statements, resulting in a significant increase in the fair value asfollows: of our forward currency purchase contracts in the balance sheet and income statement volatility due to realised and unrealised currency Property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment exchange gains and losses.
isdepreciated on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life.
Estimated useful lives are based on past experience, future Where the impact is material, we have extended certain disclosures replacement cycles and other available evidence.
However, a degree of tohighlight the impact of currency exchange gains and losses in judgement is required.
Useful economic lives are reviewed annually, we theperiod.
Where relevant, we have re-presented the prior year reduced the useful lives of certain assets in our generation business comparatives to provide the relevant information to gauge the impact.
MORE INFORMATION: note 3.1 on page 137 117 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Impairment an impairment review is conducted annually for goodwill Revenue recognition the nature of some of the Groups activities, and for other assets and cash-generating units where an indicator of particularly within the Retail segment, results in revenue being based possible impairment exists.
The assessment of future cash flows that on the estimated volumes of power supplied to customers at an underpins such a review is based on managements best estimate of estimated average price per unit.
Assumptions that underpin these future prices, volumes and economic conditions.
The calculations are estimates are applied consistently and comparison of past estimates particularly sensitive to judgement given the long time period covered tofinal settlements suggests a high degree of accuracy.
given the level of judgement involved, actual outcomes may vary frominitial estimates.
MORE INFORMATION: note 2.4 on page 130 MORE INFORMATION: note 2.2 on page 127 Derivatives derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Groups balance sheet at fair value.
The assessment of fair value is CfD accounting policy the CfD is a material new contract for derived from assuming a market price for the instrument in question.
theGroup and the specific accounting treatment is not prescribed The Group bases its assessment of market prices upon forward curves byan existing IFRS.
Accordingly, management has had to exercise that are largely derived from readily obtainable quotations and third judgement in adopting an appropriate policy in accordance with IAS 8. party sources.
However, any forward curve is based at least in part Management considered the requirements of a number of standards, upon assumptions about future transactions and market movements.
including IAS 18 revenue, IAS 39 financial instruments, IAS 16 Where such instruments extend beyond the liquid portion of the leases and IAS 20 Government Grants in determining the policy to forward curve, the level of judgement increases as the number of be adopted.
In particular, management concluded that the contract observable transactions decreases.
did not meet the definition of a derivative financial instrument in IAS39 on the grounds that cash flows do not become contractually due untilthe point of generation and the Group is under no obligation to MORE INFORMATION: note 7.2 on page 160 generate.
Accordingly, amounts due under the CfD are recognised Inventories fuel inventories are valued at weighted average cost atthe point of generation.
based on purchase price, or net realisable value where lower.
Valuation is largely based on observable data such as invoiced costs and MORE INFORMATION: note 2.2 on page 127 automated weigher readings.
However, given the bulk nature of fuels an element of judgement is required to assess the volume of stock held Non-IFRS measures of financial performance at the balance sheet date.
We present two non-IFRS measures on the face of our income statement: EBITDA and underlying profit.
MORE INFORMATION: note 3.3 on page 140 EBITDA is the primary measure we use to assess our financial performance.
EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, Renewable Obligation Certificates ROCs the carrying amount of depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on ROCs in the Groups balance sheet is stated at their expected realisable derivative contracts.
This assessment is based on estimated future sales prices, which involves judgement.
Underlying measures, including underlying profit before and after taxand underlying earnings per share EPS, exclude the impact of MORE INFORMATION: note 3.2 on page 139 unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, plus particular transactions considered to be one-off in nature that do not reflect Other accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions theunderlying trading and operational performance of the Group.
Pensions the Group records a liability in its balance sheet for its Underlying profit after tax and EPS exclude the post-tax effect of these obligation to provide benefits under an approved defined benefit items.
In 2015, this excluded an asset obsolescence charge of 109 pension scheme less the fair value of assets held by the pension million.
In 2016, this excludes a deferred tax credit of 31 million in scheme.
The actuarial valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities is relation to start-up losses in our US business.
performed annually and depends on assumptions regarding interest rates, inflation, future salary and pension increases, mortality and A reconciliation of profit for the year attributable to equity holders otherfactors.
calculated in accordance with IFRS to underlying profit after tax is provided in note 2.7.
MORE INFORMATION: note 6.3 on page 152 Under our current distribution policy, dividends are calculated based Taxation in accounting for tax liabilities the Group makes upon 50% of underlying profit after tax.
assumptions regarding the likely treatment of items of income andexpenditure for tax purposes.
These assumptions are based oninterpretation of relevant legislation and, where required, consultation with external advisors.
MORE INFORMATION: note 2.6 on page 132 118 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 FINANCIALS CONTENTS Section Note Page Section 1: Consolidated income statement 120 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 121 Consolidated balance sheet 122 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 123 Consolidated cash flow statement 124 Section 2: Financial performance 2.1 Segmental reporting 125 2.2 Revenue 127 2.3 Operating expenses and EBITDA 129 2.4 Review of fixed assets for impairment 130 2.5 Net finance costs 132 2.6 Current and deferred taxation 132 2.7 Earnings per share and underlying earnings per share 134 2.8 Dividends 135 2.9 Retained profits 136 Section 3: Operating assets and working capital 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 137 3.2 ROC and LEC assets 139 3.3 Inventories 140 3.4 Trade and other receivables 140 3.5 Trade and other payables 141 Section 4: Financing and capital structure 4.1 Reconciliation of net debt 142 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents 142 4.3 Borrowings 142 4.4 Cash generated from operations 144 4.5 Equity and reserves 144 Section 5: Other assets and liabilities 5.1 Acquisitions 146 5.2 Goodwill and other intangible assets 148 5.3 Provisions 149 Section 6: Our people 6.1 Employees and directors 150 6.2 Share-based payments 150 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations 152 Section 7: Risk management 7.1 Financial risk management 157 7.2 Derivative financial instruments 160 7.3 Other financial instruments 163 7.4 Hedge reserve 163 7.5 Contingent liabilities 164 7.6 Commitments 164 Section 8: Reference information 8.1 General information 165 8.2 Basis of preparation 165 8.3 Accounting policies 166 8.4 Related party transactions 166 Drax Group plc Company financial statements 167 Notes to the Company financial statements 169 119 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
