SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED COMPANY INFORMATION GLOSSARY Drax Group plc Advantaged fuels Registered office and trading address Fuel that gives a price advantage against standard bituminous coals.
Drax Power Station Such fuels include pond fines, off-specification coal and petcoke.
Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Ancillary services Telephone 44 0 1757 618381 Services provided to national grid used for balancing supply and Fax 44 0 1757 612192 demand or maintaining secure electricity supplies within acceptable www.
com limits, for example Black Start contracts.
They are described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
Registration details Registered in England and Wales Availability Company Number: 5562053 Average percentage of time the units were available for generation.
Company Secretary Average achieved price David McCallum Power revenues divided by volume of net sales includes imbalancecharges.
Enquiry e-mail address enquiries@drax.
com Balancing mechanism The sub-set of the market through which the system operator can call upon additional generation consumption or reduce generation consumption through market participants bids and offers, in order tobalance the system minute-by-minute.
Bark spread The difference between the power price and the cost of biomass, PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS net of renewable support.
AND SERVICE PROVIDERS Carbon price support mechanism or carbon price floor or carbon tax A tax upon fossil fuels including coal used to generate electricity.
Auditor It is charged as a levy on coal delivered to the power station.
Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ Contracts for difference CfD A mechanism to support investment in low-carbon electricity Bankers generation.
The CfD works by stabilising revenues for generators at Barclays Bank PLC a fixed price level known as the strike price.
Generators will receive 1 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HP revenue from selling their electricity into the market as usual.
However, when the market reference price is below the strike price they will also Brokers receive a top-up payment from suppliers for the additional amount.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove Conversely if the reference price is above the strike price, the generator 25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP must pay back the difference.
Financial PR Dark green spread Brunswick Group LLP The difference between the power price and the cost of coal and 16 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED carbon, including CO allowances under the EU Emissions Trading 2 Scheme and the UK Carbon Price Support CPS Mechanism.
Registrars Equiniti Limited Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA The Government department bringing together the responsibilities for business, industrial strategy, science, innovation, energy and climate Remuneration advisers change formerly DECC.
 LLP 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH EBITDA Profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised Solicitors gains and losses on derivative contracts.
Slaughter and May LLP One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY EU ETS The EU Emissions Trading System is a mechanism introduced across the EU to reduce emissions of CO : the scheme is capable of being 2 extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions.
176 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Feed-in tariff Net sales at notional balancing point NBP A long-term contract set at a fixed level where variable payments are Net sales at NBP is the volume of power sold to customers by our Retail made to ensure the generator receives an agreed tariff.
The feed-in business expressed at the NBP.
The NBP reflects the volume of power tariff payment would be made in addition to the generators revenues sold before deduction of transmission and distribution losses incurred from selling in the market.
in transporting this power from the grid to the customer meter.
Forced outage Planned outage Any reduction in plant availability, excluding planned outages.
A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according to the plan set at the outset of the year.
Forced outage rate The capacity which is not available due to forced outages or Planned outage rate restrictions expressed as a percentage of the maximum theoretical The capacity not available due to planned outages expressed as capacity, less planned outage capacity.
apercentage of the maximum theoretical capacity.
Grid charges Power exchange trades Includes transmission network use of system charges TNUoS, Power sales or purchases transacted on the APX UK power balancing services use of system charges BSUoS and distribution tradingplatform.
ROCs IFRSs A Renewable Obligation Certificate ROC is a certificate issued toan International Financial Reporting Standards.
accredited generator for electricity generated from eligible renewable sources.
The Renewable Obligation RO is currently the main support LECs scheme for renewable electricity projects in the UK.
Evidence of CCL exempt electricity supplies generated from qualifying renewable sources.
Summer The calendar months April to September.
Levy control framework A control framework for BEIS formerly DECC levy-funded spending System operator intended to make sure that BEIS achieves its fuel poverty, energy and National Grid Electricity Transmission.
Responsible for the coordination climate change goals in a way that is consistent with economic of electricity flows onto and over the transmission system, balancing recovery and minimising the impact on consumer bills.
generation supply and user demand.
Load factor Total recordable injury rate TRIR Net sent out generation as a percentage of maximum sales.
The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time injuries worse than first aid injuries hours worked x 100,000.
Lost time injury rate LTIR The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time UK NAP injuries hours worked x 100,000.
Lost time injuries are defined as UK National Allocation Plan.
occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for more than 24 hours.
Underlying financial measures We report financial measures described as underlying such as profit Net balancing mechanism after tax and earnings per share.
Underlying measures are adjusted to Net volumes attributable to accepted bids and offers in the balancing exclude the impact of gains and losses on derivative contracts and the mechanism.
Net cash debt Winter Comprises cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments less The calendar months October to March.
overdrafts and borrowings net of deferred finance costs.
Net sales The aggregate of net volumes attributable to bilateral contracts, power exchange trades and net balancing mechanism.
The DRAX report and accounts are printed on Revive 100 Offset a Carbon Balanced paper that has been produced from 100% post-consumer recycled fibre FSC Recycled certified, and awarded the EU Eco label.
The carbon emissions associated with the papers production and distribution have been offset through the World Land Trusts Carbon Balanced Paper scheme.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 DRAX.
COM Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH T 44 0 1757 618381
