SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key dates for 2017 At the date of publication of this document, the following are the proposed key dates in the 2017 financial calendar: Annual General Meeting 13 April Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend 20 April Record date for entitlement to the final dividend 21 April Payment of final dividend 12 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results 19 July Financial year end 31 December Other significant dates, or amendments to the proposed dates above, will be posted on the Companys website as and when they become available.
Results announcements Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are available on its news service.
Shortly afterwards, they are available under Regulatory news within the Investor section on the Companys website.
Share price Shareholders can access the current share price of Drax Group plc ordinary shares on our website at www.
During London Stock Exchange trading hours the price shown on the website is subject to a delay of approximately 15 minutes and outside trading hours it is the last available price.
The table below provides an indication of the fluctuations in the Drax Group plc share price during the course of 2016, and the graph provides an indication of the trend of the share price throughout the year.
Closing price on 31 December 2015 Low during the year 18 January 2016 High during the year 30 and 31 December 2016 Closing price on 31 December 2016 244.4 pence 207.6 pence 377.9 pence 377.9 pence Share price 2016 pence 400 350 300 250 200 1 January 1 February 1 March 1 April 1 May 1 June 1 July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November 1 December 31 December 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Note: The share prices given are the middle market closing prices as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
173 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Market capitalisation Registering for electronic communications does not mean that you The market capitalisation, based on the number of shares in issue and can no longer receive paper copies of documents.
We are able to offer the closing price at 31 December 2016, was approximately 1,536 a range of services and tailor the communications to meet your needs.
A range of frequently asked shareholder questions can also be found Financial reports on the Drax website at www.
com investors faq Copies of all financial reports we publish are available from the date of publication and can be downloaded from our website.
Printed copies Tax on dividends of reports can be requested by writing to the Company Secretary at In the 2015 Budget, the Chancellor announced changes in the way that the registered office, by clicking on Contact Us on our website, dividends would be taxed in the future.
Below is a brief summary of the ordirect by e-mail to enquiries@drax.
com guidance provided by HMRC.
If you are in any doubt as to the impact on your personal circumstances, you are recommended to seek your own Drax shareholder queries financial advice from a professional adviser authorised under the Draxs share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited Equiniti, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. whois primarily responsible for updating the share register and for dividend payments.
From April 2016, there was an income tax charge on dividends at the rate of 7.5% for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers Shareholders should contact Equiniti directly if they have a query and38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
relating to their Drax shareholding, in particular queries regarding: The long-standing system of tax credits attached to dividends was transfer of shares: replaced with a new tax-free Dividend Allowance.
This means that change of name or address: there is no tax to pay on the first 5,000 of dividend income, no matter lost share certificates: what non-dividend income a shareholder may have.
Dividends paid on lost or out-of-date dividend cheques: shares held within pensions and ISAs will be unaffected, remaining payment of dividends direct to a bank or building society tax-free.
account: and death of a registered shareholder.
Non-taxpayers and basic rate taxpayers who receive dividend incomebetween 5,001 and 10,000 will need to make a declaration Equiniti can be contacted as follows: to HMRC for the first time.
Individuals with dividend income of more than 10,000 are already required to be in HMRCs Self-Assessment Call Equiniti on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK.
The impact on Share Incentive Plan participants receiving cash from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Bank dividends on their plan shares align with those for Shareholders.
Holidays : or 44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
Further information and updates on tax on dividends can be found Write to Equiniti at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, onthe HMRC website at www.
uk tax-on-dividends overview Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
As the Dividend Tax Credit will no longer be required it is expected When contacting Equiniti by telephone or in writing it is advisable to thata dividend confirmation will still need to be sent to shareholders have your shareholder reference to hand and quote Drax Group plc, as toreplace the old tax voucher.
The Company is currently considering well as the name and address in which the shares are held.
whether to move to the practice of issuing just one dividend confirmation document towards the end of the tax year, irrespective Online communications ofthe number of cash payments made during the course of the year, Registering for online communications allows you to have more control rather than issuing a document each time a dividend is paid.
over the administration of your shareholding.
The registration process Shareholders will be advised of the outcome in due course.
is easy via Equinitis secure website www.
co. uk Beneficial owners and information rights Once registered with Shareview you are able to: If your shares are registered in the name of a third party i. e. an ISA provider or other nominee company you may, if you wish, receive elect how Drax communicates with you: information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006. amend some of your personal details: Inorder for this to happen, you must contact the third party registered amend the way you receive dividends: and holder, who will then nominate you.
All communications by beneficial buy or sell shares online.
owners of shares where the shares are held by third party registered holders must be directed to that registered holder and not to Drax orEquiniti.
174 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ShareGift Report a scam ShareGift registered charity No.
1052686 is an independent charity If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share which provides a free service for shareholders wishing to dispose fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out charitably of small parcels of shares, which would most likely cost more more about investment scams.
to sell than they are worth.
There are no capital gains tax implications i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is possible to You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. obtain income tax relief.
Further information can be obtained directly from the charity at www.
org If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Share frauds Boiler room scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence offering to purchase their shares at apparently inflated prices.
It is often the case that the caller, or message in the correspondence claims that they represent a majority shareholder who is looking to take over the Company.
At the time of this report, the Company was not the subject of a take-over attempt, hostile or otherwise, and approaches such as those outlined are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals.
Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a premium or offers of free reports into the Company.
Below is the advice from the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA.
Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
How to avoid share fraud: Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
Check the Financial Services Register from www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details.
Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to call it back.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
uk scams Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
175 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
