102 Financial Statements 102 Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement Year ended 30 April 2016 Before Exceptional After Before Exceptional After exceptional items exceptional exceptional items exceptional items note 4 items items note 4 items 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Continuing operations Note m m m m m m Revenue 2 4,066 4,066 3,820 3,820 Operating costs 3, 4 3,687 92 3,779 3,485 31 3,516 Operating profit before amortisation, acquisitions and disposals 2 379 92 287 335 31 304 Amortisation of intangible assets, acquisitions and disposals 10, 4 51 14 37 46 9 55 Operating profit 328 78 250 289 40 249 Finance income 5 1 1 3 3 Finance costs 4, 5 42 1 43 35 4 39 Employment benefit net finance expense 25 6 6 6 6 Net financing costs 47 1 48 38 4 42 Profit after financing costs 281 79 202 251 44 207 Share of loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 4, 12 1 1 7 7 Profit before income tax 280 79 201 251 51 200 Income tax expense credit 4, 7 61 27 34 54 10 44 Profit for the year from continuing operations 219 52 167 197 41 156 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent 219 52 167 197 41 156 Non-controlling interests Earnings per share 1 Adjusted from continuing and total operations Basic 8 27.4p 24.5p Diluted 8 27.0p 24.3p From continuing and total operations Basic 8 17.7p 16.6p Diluted 8 17.5p 16.4p 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 103 102 Financial Statements Financial Statements 103 Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended 30 April 2016 Year ended 30 April 2016 Before Exceptional After Before Exceptional After 2015 2016 exceptional items exceptional exceptional items exceptional Note m m items note 4 items items note 4 items 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Profit for the year 167 156 Continuing operations Note m m m m m m Items which will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Revenue 2 4,066 4,066 3,820 3,820 Actuarial gain loss on employee benefits 25 11 65 Operating costs 3, 4 3,687 92 3,779 3,485 31 3,516 Income tax on items which will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 7 5 10 Operating profit before amortisation, Items which may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss acquisitions and disposals 2 379 92 287 335 31 304 Foreign currency translation differences 49 105 Amortisation of intangible assets, acquisitions and disposals 10, 4 51 14 37 46 9 55 Movements in cash flow hedges 2 5 Operating profit 328 78 250 289 40 249 Income tax on items which may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 7 4 22 Finance income 5 1 1 3 3 Other comprehensive income expense for the year, net of tax 57 177 Finance costs 4, 5 42 1 43 35 4 39 Employment benefit net finance expense 25 6 6 6 6 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 224 21 Net financing costs 47 1 48 38 4 42 Total comprehensive income expense attributable to: Profit after financing costs 281 79 202 251 44 207 Owners of the parent 224 21 Share of loss of equity accounted Non-controlling interests investments, net of tax 4, 12 1 1 7 7 Profit before income tax 280 79 201 251 51 200 Income tax expense credit 4, 7 61 27 34 54 10 44 Profit for the year from continuing operations 219 52 167 197 41 156 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent 219 52 167 197 41 156 Non-controlling interests Earnings per share 1 Adjusted from continuing and total operations Basic 8 27.4p 24.5p Diluted 8 27.0p 24.3p From continuing and total operations Basic 8 17.7p 16.6p Diluted 8 17.5p 16.4p 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
com 104 Financial Statements 104 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position At 30 April 2016 2016 2015 Note m m Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 10 1,089 855 Property, plant and equipment 11 1,678 1,342 Equity accounted investments 12 4 17 Other investments 13 3 3 Deferred tax assets 22 58 58 Other receivables 15 3 5 Derivative financial instruments 21 17 24 Total non-current assets 2,852 2,304 Current assets Inventories 14 338 256 Other investments 13 1 Income tax receivable 11 38 Trade and other receivables 15 696 548 Cash and cash equivalents 19 134 95 Derivative financial instruments 21 40 13 Assets held for sale 17 7 46 Total current assets 1,226 997 Total assets 4,078 3,301 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 1,073 781 Employee benefits 25 188 200 Other payables 16 8 5 Provisions 23 5 7 Deferred tax liabilities 22 141 121 Derivative financial instruments 21 9 13 Total non-current liabilities 1,424 1,127 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 19 19 13 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 185 2 Trade and other payables 16 1,118 927 Income tax liabilities 109 147 Provisions 23 36 34 Derivative financial instruments 21 47 18 Liabilities held for sale 17 15 Total current liabilities 1,514 1,156 Total liabilities 2,938 2,283 Net assets 1,140 1,018 Equity Issued capital 24 94 94 Share premium 716 715 Reserves 327 210 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,137 1,019 Non-controlling interests 3 1 Total equity 1,140 1,018 Approved by the Board of Directors of DS Smith Plc on 22 June 2016 and signed on its behalf by M W Roberts A R T Marsh Director Director The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 105 104 Financial Statements Financial Statements 105 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity At 30 April 2016 Year ended 30 April 2016 2016 2015 Total Note m m reserves attributable Assets to owners NonNon-current assets Share Share Hedging Translation Own Retained of the controlling Total Intangible assets 10 1,089 855 capital premium reserve reserve shares earnings parent interests equity Note m m m m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 11 1,678 1,342 At 1 May 2014 94 715 31 4 350 1,132 1 1,131 Equity accounted investments 12 4 17 Profit for the year 156 156 156 Other investments 13 3 3 Actuarial loss on employee benefits 25 65 65 65 Deferred tax assets 22 58 58 Foreign currency translation differences 105 105 105 Other receivables 15 3 5 Cash flow hedges fair value changes 18 18 18 Derivative financial instruments 21 17 24 Movement from cash flow hedge reserve Total non-current assets 2,852 2,304 to income statement 21 23 23 23 Current assets Income tax on other Inventories 14 338 256 comprehensive income 7 1 21 10 12 12 Other investments 13 1 Total comprehensive Income tax receivable 11 38 income expense 4 126 101 21 21 Trade and other receivables 15 696 548 Share-based payment expense net of tax 2 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 19 134 95 Dividends paid 9 94 94 94 Derivative financial instruments 21 40 13 Other changes in equity in the year 92 92 92 Assets held for sale 17 7 46 At 30 April 2015 94 715 27 122 359 1,019 1 1,018 Total current assets 1,226 997 Profit for the year 167 167 167 Total assets 4,078 3,301 Actuarial gain on employee benefits 25 11 11 11 Liabilities Foreign currency translation differences 49 49 49 Non-current liabilities Cash flow hedges fair value changes 20 20 20 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 1,073 781 Movement from cash flow hedge reserve Employee benefits 25 188 200 to income statement 21 18 18 18 Other payables 16 8 5 Income tax on other Provisions 23 5 7 comprehensive income 7 4 5 1 1 Deferred tax liabilities 22 141 121 Total comprehensive Derivative financial instruments 21 9 13 expense income 2 53 173 224 224 Total non-current liabilities 1,424 1,127 Issue of share capital 1 1 1 Current liabilities Employee share trust 3 4 7 7 Bank overdrafts 19 19 13 Acquisition of subsidiary with Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 185 2 non-controlling interests 31 4 4 Share-based payment expense net of tax 8 8 8 Trade and other payables 16 1,118 927 Dividends paid 9 108 108 108 Income tax liabilities 109 147 Provisions 23 36 34 Other changes in equity in the year 1 3 104 106 4 102 Derivative financial instruments 21 47 18 At 30 April 2016 94 716 29 69 3 428 1,137 3 1,140 Liabilities held for sale 17 15 Total current liabilities 1,514 1,156 Total liabilities 2,938 2,283 Net assets 1,140 1,018 Equity Issued capital 24 94 94 Share premium 716 715 Reserves 327 210 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,137 1,019 Non-controlling interests 3 1 Total equity 1,140 1,018 Approved by the Board of Directors of DS Smith Plc on 22 June 2016 and signed on its behalf by M W Roberts A R T Marsh Director Director The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
com 106 Financial Statements 106 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Year ended 30 April 2016 2016 2015 Continuing operations Note m m Operating activities Cash generated from operations 27 444 463 Interest received 1 3 Interest paid 33 37 Tax paid 49 28 Cash flows from operating activities 363 401 Investing activities Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 31 313 28 Divestment of subsidiary and equity accounted businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 31 21 18 Capital expenditure 229 167 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 28 18 Decrease in restricted cash 3 Loan to associate 2 Cash flows used in investing activities 493 158 Financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 1 Decrease in borrowings 337 352 Increase in borrowings 605 233 Repayment of finance lease obligations 5 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 9 108 94 Cash flows from used in financing activities 156 213 Increase in cash and cash equivalents 26 30 Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 May 82 64 Reclassification to held for sale 6 Exchange gains losses on cash and cash equivalents 7 6 Net cash and cash equivalents at 30 April 19 115 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 107 106 Financial Statements Financial Statements 107 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 30 April 2016 2016 2015 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Intra-group balances and Continuing operations Note m m A BASIS OF PREPARATION any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising Operating activities These financial statements are consolidated financial statements from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Cash generated from operations 27 444 463 for the Group consisting of DS Smith Plc, a company registered in the consolidated financial statements.
Interest received 1 3 UK, and all its subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements II INTERESTS IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS Interest paid 33 37 have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance The Groups interests in equity accounted investments comprise Tax paid 49 28 with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by of interests in associates and joint ventures.
An associate is an Cash flows from operating activities 363 401 the EU adopted IFRSs, and with those parts of the Companies entity over which the Group has significant influence, but not Investing activities Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The control or joint control, over the financial and operating policy Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 31 313 28 consolidated financial statements are also in compliance with IFRSs decisions of the investment.
A joint venture is an entity in which Divestment of subsidiary and equity accounted businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 31 21 18 as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the Capital expenditure 229 167 The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the net assets of the entity, rather than rights to its assets and Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 28 18 historical cost basis with the exception of assets and liabilities obligations for its liabilities.
Decrease in restricted cash 3 of certain financial instruments, employee benefit plans and Loan to associate 2 Interests in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using share-based payments that are stated at their fair value.
Cash flows used in investing activities 493 158 the equity method.
They are recognised initially at cost, which The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on Financing activities includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition the Proceeds from issue of share capital 1 a going concern basis as set out on page 65 of the Directors consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the Governance report.
The Directors consider that adequate resources Decrease in borrowings 337 352 profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity accounted exist for the Company to continue in operational existence for the investments, until the date on which significant influence or joint Increase in borrowings 605 233 foreseeable future.
Repayment of finance lease obligations 5 control ceases.
Dividends paid to Group shareholders 9 108 94 The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires III NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Cash flows from used in financing activities 156 213 management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions Non-controlling interests are shown as a component of equity in Increase in cash and cash equivalents 26 30 that affect whether and how policies are applied, and the reported the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position net of the value Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 May 82 64 amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Judgements of options over interests held by non-controlling interests in the Reclassification to held for sale 6 made by management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have Groups subsidiaries.
Exchange gains losses on cash and cash equivalents 7 6 a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with IV BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Net cash and cash equivalents at 30 April 19 115 82 a significant risk of material adjustment are discussed in accounting The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of policy 1 X. subsidiaries.
Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles The following new accounting standards, amendments or in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values interpretations have been adopted by the Group as of 1 May 2015: at the acquisition date.
IFRIC 21 Levies Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 cycle the combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Final fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date Contributions and retrospectively applied.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 cycle The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any The adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets has not had a material effect on the results for the year.
including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently in all periods presented in these consolidated financial The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the statements.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently assets given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities by all Group entities.
assumed or incurred at the date of acquisition.
B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
I SUBSIDIARIES The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date.
consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the Annual Report & Accounts 2016 dssmith.
com 108 Financial Statements 108 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued G FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, C REVENUE which is the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions in Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts currencies of Group companies at the foreign exchange rates and after eliminating sales within the Group.
ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when: liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated into the functional currency at the foreign the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of exchange rates ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences ownership to the buyer: arising on translation of monetary assets and liabilities are all significant performance obligations have been met: recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement nor assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a effective control over the goods sold: foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the the dates of the transactions.
transaction will flow to the Group: and The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
functional currency other than sterling are translated at the closing exchange rate at the reporting date.
Income and expenses for This is typically when either the goods are loaded onto the each income statement are translated at average exchange rates collection vehicle if the buyer is collecting them, or when the unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the goods are unloaded at the delivery address if the Group is cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, responsible for delivery.
in which case income and expenses are translated at the date of D SUPPLIER REBATES the transactions.
The Group receives income from its suppliers, mainly in the form On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of volume based rebates and early settlement discounts.
They are of the net investment in foreign entities, borrowings, and other recognised as a reduction in operating costs in the year to which financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, they relate.
At the period end the Group is sometimes required are recognised in the translation reserve.
On the disposal of foreign to estimate supplier income due from annual agreements for currency entities, the cumulative exchange difference recorded volume rebates.
in the translation reserve is taken to the Consolidated Income E GOVERNMENT GRANTS Statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
I EMISSION QUOTAS H INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Group participates in Phase II of the EU Emissions I GOODWILL Trading Scheme.
Emission quotas received in a period are initially The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the recognised at a nominal value of nil.
As a result, no asset or liability purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of identifiable is initially recognised in the statement of financial position.
assets acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the A provision is recognised if there is any anticipated shortfall in the acquired entity.
The Group makes judgements and estimates in level of quotas received or purchased when compared with actual relation to the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
emissions in any given period, measured at the market price of such quotas at the reporting date.
Excess emission quotas acquired as Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
part of a business combination are recognised as intangible assets The useful life of goodwill is considered to be indefinite.
Goodwill at their fair value on the date of acquisition.
is allocated to the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination II OTHER and is tested annually for impairment: or more frequently if Other government grants are recognised in the statement impairment is indicated.
of financial position initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the will comply with the conditions attached to them.
Grants that attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of compensate the Group for expenses incurred are offset against the the profit or loss recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
expenses in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
II INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Grants relating to assets are released to the income statement over Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation the expected useful life of the asset to which it relates on a basis and impairment losses.
consistent with the depreciation policy.
Depreciation is provided on the full cost of the assets before deducting grants.
III COMPUTER SOFTWARE Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is F DIVIDENDS included within property, plant and equipment.
All other computer Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company paid software is treated as an intangible asset.
during the year are recognised directly in equity.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 109 108 Financial Statements Financial Statements 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued G FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED I CASH GENERATING UNITS The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, C REVENUE H INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED For the purposes of impairment testing, each segment, split by which is the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions in Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, IV CUSTOMER RELATED process, is a separate CGU.
Impairment testing of property, plant and foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts Customer relationships, acquired as part of a business combination, equipment and other intangibles is carried out at an individual CGU currencies of Group companies at the foreign exchange rates and after eliminating sales within the Group.
are capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less level.
Goodwill impairment testing is carried out based on regional ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and accumulated amortisation and impairment.
groupings of CGUs as illustrated in note 10, as this is the lowest level Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when: liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
V OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS date are translated into the functional currency at the foreign the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are carried II CALCULATION OF RECOVERABLE AMOUNT exchange rates ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences ownership to the buyer: at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
The recoverable amount of the Groups assets is calculated as the arising on translation of monetary assets and liabilities are all significant performance obligations have been met: value-in-use of the CGU to which the assets are attributed or the recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary VI AMORTISATION the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement nor net selling price, if greater.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a Amortisation of intangible assets excluding goodwill is charged to the cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU group of CGUs effective control over the goods sold: foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated being tested for evidence of impairment.
This is done using a preit is probable that the economic benefits associated with the the dates of the transactions.
useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
tax discount rate that reflects the current assessment of the time transaction will flow to the Group: and Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortised from the The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a value of money, and the country specific risks for which the cash date they are available for use.
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
functional currency other than sterling are translated at the closing flows have not been adjusted.
For an asset that does not generate exchange rate at the reporting date.
Income and expenses for This is typically when either the goods are loaded onto the The estimated useful lives are as follows: largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is each income statement are translated at average exchange rates determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
collection vehicle if the buyer is collecting them, or when the Intellectual property Up to 20 years unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the goods are unloaded at the delivery address if the Group is III REVERSALS OF IMPAIRMENT Computer software 3-5 years cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, responsible for delivery.
Customer relationships 5-15 years Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In in which case income and expenses are translated at the date of respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has D SUPPLIER REBATES the transactions.
I PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND OTHER The Group receives income from its suppliers, mainly in the form been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable INVESTMENTS On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the of volume based rebates and early settlement discounts.
They are Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated of the net investment in foreign entities, borrowings, and other recognised as a reduction in operating costs in the year to which assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that depreciation and impairment losses.
financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, they relate.
On the disposal of foreign to estimate supplier income due from annual agreements for if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line currency entities, the cumulative exchange difference recorded volume rebates.
basis over the estimated useful lives of each item of property, plant K DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS in the translation reserve is taken to the Consolidated Income and equipment, and major components that are accounted for The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily E GOVERNMENT GRANTS Statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
separately or in the case of leased assets, the lease period, if interest rate, currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest I EMISSION QUOTAS shorter.
H INTANGIBLE ASSETS rate, currency and commodity risks associated with the Groups The Group participates in Phase II of the EU Emissions I GOODWILL underlying business activities and the financing of these activities.
Emission quotas received in a period are initially The estimated useful lives are as follows: The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the The Group has a policy not to, and does not, undertake any recognised at a nominal value of nil.
As a result, no asset or liability Freehold and long leasehold properties 10-50 years purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of identifiable speculative activity in these instruments.
is initially recognised in the statement of financial position.
Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 2-25 years assets acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the A provision is recognised if there is any anticipated shortfall in the including IT hardware Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair acquired entity.
The Group makes judgements and estimates in level of quotas received or purchased when compared with actual Motor vehicles 3-5 years value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and relation to the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
emissions in any given period, measured at the market price of such are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried quotas at the reporting date.
Excess emission quotas acquired as Other investments consist of available for sale investments in Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the part of a business combination are recognised as intangible assets unquoted equity and debt securities which are carried at cost, The useful life of goodwill is considered to be indefinite.
Goodwill fair value is negative.
at their fair value on the date of acquisition.
less any impairment, and restricted cash.
is allocated to the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as hedges when that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination II OTHER Gains or losses arising on the sale of surplus property assets are designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when and is tested annually for impairment: or more frequently if Other government grants are recognised in the statement recorded through operating profit before exceptional items.
For the financial instruments provide an effective hedge of the impairment is indicated.
of financial position initially as deferred income when there is further information on current year gains or losses, see note 27. underlying risk.
reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the J IMPAIRMENT will comply with the conditions attached to them.
Grants that For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, including tangible and compensate the Group for expenses incurred are offset against the the profit or loss recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
intangible non-current assets, are reviewed at each reporting date fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the expenses in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
fair value of a recognised asset or liability: to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
If any II INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Grants relating to assets are released to the income statement over such indicators exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash the expected useful life of the asset to which it relates on a basis Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at the same time, flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with and impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided regardless of the presence of an impairment indicator.
An either a statement of financial position item or a highly on the full cost of the assets before deducting grants.
III COMPUTER SOFTWARE impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount probable forecast transaction: or Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is F DIVIDENDS of an asset, collection of assets or its CGU exceeds its recoverable hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity.
included within property, plant and equipment.
All other computer Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company paid amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
software is treated as an intangible asset.
com 110 Financial Statements 110 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued M TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less K DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED impairment provisions.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the N INVENTORIES hedging relationship as follows: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Fair value hedges: the carrying amount of the hedged item is course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling adjusted for gains or losses attributable to the risk being hedged expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on a weighted average and the derivative is remeasured at fair value.
Gains and losses from cost or first-in first-out basis and includes expenditure incurred in both the hedged item and the fair value of derivatives are taken to acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge normal operating capacity.
accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
O CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND RESTRICTED CASH Cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts part of the Groups cash management are included as a component taken to equity are transferred to the income statement in the of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of same period during which the hedged transaction affects profit cash flows.
Cash and cash equivalents are stated at amortised cost.
or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, Cash subject to contractual restrictions on use by the Group is the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
financial statements and presented within other investments in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Restricted cash If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised is stated at amortised cost.
without replacement or roll-over, the hedged transaction ceases to be highly probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, P BORROWINGS amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intereststatement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost unless designated or liability as above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected in a fair value hedge relationship, with borrowing costs being to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement to the income statement.
using the effective interest method.
At the reporting date, accrued interest is recorded separately Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income Q EMPLOYEE BENEFITS statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income I DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES statement when the foreign entity is sold.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an employee benefit expense within personnel Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all expenses in the income statement, as incurred.
other derivatives are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied II DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES because they are not effective as hedging instruments.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating The net present value of the expected future payments under the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return options over interests held by non-controlling interests in the for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is Groups subsidiaries is shown as a financial liability.
At the end of discounted to its present value amount and recognised in the each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any income statement as personnel expense: a corresponding liability changes recognised in profit or loss for the period.
for all future benefits is established on the statement of financial L TREASURY SHARES position and the fair value of any schemes assets is deducted.
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the duration costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares of the schemes obligations.
The calculation is performed by a are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 111 110 Financial Statements Financial Statements 111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued M TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number of different Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less K DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Q EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining the impairment provisions.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives III SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS appropriate provision for transactions where the ultimate tax designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation determination is uncertain.
In such circumstances, the Group N INVENTORIES hedging relationship as follows: plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes based on the best Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
for the grant of the options is recognised as personnel expense, information available and where the anticipated liability is both Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Fair value hedges: the carrying amount of the hedged item is with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the probable and estimable.
Such liabilities are classified as current course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling adjusted for gains or losses attributable to the risk being hedged employees unconditionally become entitled to the awards.
The fair when the Group expects to settle the liability within 12 months with expenses.
Gains and losses from value of the options granted is measured using a stochastic model, the remainder as non-current.
Any interest and penalties accrued cost or first-in first-out basis and includes expenditure incurred in both the hedged item and the fair value of derivatives are taken to taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options are included in income taxes in both the Consolidated Income acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge were granted.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options Where the final outcome of such matters differs from the amount progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
recorded, any differences may impact the income tax and deferred normal operating capacity.
tax provisions in the period in which the final determination is made.
At each reporting date, the entity revises its estimates of the O CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND RESTRICTED CASH Cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet liability Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes part of the Groups cash management are included as a component taken to equity are transferred to the income statement in the and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The tax effect of of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of same period during which the hedged transaction affects profit R PROVISIONS certain temporary differences is not recognised, principally with cash flows.
Where A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when respect to goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of Cash subject to contractual restrictions on use by the Group is recognition of assets or liabilities other than those arising in the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial a past event, a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated a business combination or in a manner that initially impacts carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
obligation and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits financial statements and presented within other investments in accounting or taxable profit : and temporary differences relating will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are discounted the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Restricted cash to investment in subsidiaries and equity accounted investees to If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised to present value where the effect is material.
is stated at amortised cost.
without replacement or roll-over, the hedged transaction ceases the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future and the Group is able to control the reversal of such to be highly probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, S TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES P BORROWINGS amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until Trade and other payables are stated at their cost.
The amount of deferred tax provided Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestT LEASES statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost unless designated I FINANCE LEASES enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected in a fair value hedge relationship, with borrowing costs being Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is Group at the inception of the lease at the lower of their fair value and to the income statement.
the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation on probable that future taxable profits will be available against which At the reporting date, accrued interest is recorded separately the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same basis of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the Q EMPLOYEE BENEFITS statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income income statement so that a constant periodic rate of interest is I DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES V ASSETS HELD FOR SALE statement when the foreign entity is sold.
recognised on the outstanding balance of the liability.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and recognised as an employee benefit expense within personnel liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all II OPERATING LEASES expenses in the income statement, as incurred.
These may Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a rather than through continuing use, are classified as held for sale.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets, or arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount on II DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES because they are not effective as hedging instruments.
the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease on a components of a disposal group, are remeasured in accordance The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension with the Groups accounting policies.
schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating The net present value of the expected future payments under the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return Thereafter, generally the assets, or disposal group, are measured options over interests held by non-controlling interests in the U TAXATION for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to Groups subsidiaries is shown as a financial liability.
At the end of discounted to its present value amount and recognised in the sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the income statement as personnel expense: a corresponding liability extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which goodwill, and then to the remaining assets and liabilities on a pro changes recognised in profit or loss for the period.
for all future benefits is established on the statement of financial rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial case it is recognised in equity.
L TREASURY SHARES position and the fair value of any schemes assets is deducted.
assets, deferred tax assets and employee benefit assets, which When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable year, using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction at the reporting date, policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the duration costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised of the schemes obligations.
The calculation is performed by a are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
com 112 Financial Statements 112 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED II PENSIONS AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS W EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 requires the Group Items of income or expenditure that are significant by their nature, to make assumptions including, but not limited to, rates of size or incidence, and for which separate presentation would assist inflation, discount rates and life expectancies.
The use of different in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the assumptions, in any of the above calculations, could have a material Group, are classified and disclosed as exceptional items.
Such effect on the accounting values of the relevant statement of items include business disposals, restructuring and optimisation, financial position assets and liabilities which could also result in acquisition related and integration costs, and impairments.
a change to the cost of such liabilities as recognised in profit or loss over time.
These assumptions are subject to periodic review.
X CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES See note 25 for additional information.
OF ESTIMATES The application of the Groups accounting policies requires III PROVISIONS management to make estimates and assumptions.
These The Group measures provisions at the Directors best estimate of the estimates and assumptions affect the reported assets and liabilities expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.
and financial results of the Group.
Actual outcomes could differ These estimates are made, taking account of information available from the estimates and assumptions used.
and different possible outcomes, and are reviewed on a regular basis.
The Groups accounting policies that are most critical to an IV TAXATION understanding of the results and position of the Group, and the The Groups tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws judgements involved in their application, are as follows: and regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Group is required to exercise I ACQUISITIONS judgement in determining income tax provisions, along with the Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method based recognition of deferred tax assets liabilities.
While the Group aims on the fair value of the consideration paid.
Assets and liabilities to ensure that estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts are measured at fair value, and the purchase price is allocated to could be different from those expected.
assets and liabilities based on these fair values.
Determining fair values involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions V EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS including discount rates, asset lives, customer attrition rates and In applying the exceptional items accounting policy to items of recoverability, and the value of intangible assets and property, income and expenditure, the Group takes account of the origination plant and equipment for material acquisitions is typically and of similar items in prior years to ensure consistency and determined by external qualified valuers.
Y IFRS STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
Effective date International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS financial year ending IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IFRS 11 30 April 2017 IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1 30 April 2017 Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 30 April 2017 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 30 April 2017 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 30 April 2019 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 30 April 2019 IFRS 16 Leases 30 April 2020 Of these, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 16 Leases are expected to have the most significant effect.
IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 concerns the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, the fide-recognition of financial instruments and hedge accounting.
IFRS 16 prescribes a single lessee accounting model that requires the recognition of an asset and corresponding liability for all leases with terms over 12 months unless the underlying asset is of low value.
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations that are effective for the year ending 30 April 2017 will have a material effect on its financial statements.
These standards have all been endorsed by the EU, with the exception of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 113 112 Financial Statements Financial Statements 113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED II PENSIONS AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 2.
SEGMENT REPORTING W EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS OPERATING SEGMENTS IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 requires the Group Items of income or expenditure that are significant by their nature, to make assumptions including, but not limited to, rates of IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the same basis as is used internally for the review of size or incidence, and for which separate presentation would assist performance and allocation of resources by the Group Chief Executive who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8. inflation, discount rates and life expectancies.
The use of different in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the assumptions, in any of the above calculations, could have a material Further details of these segments are given in the Strategic Report on page 25.
Group, are classified and disclosed as exceptional items.
Such effect on the accounting values of the relevant statement of There has been a minor change in operating segments, with Austria moving from the DACH and Northern Europe segment into the items include business disposals, restructuring and optimisation, financial position assets and liabilities which could also result in Central Europe and Italy segment.
DACH and Northern Europe has been renamed DCH and Northern Europe to accommodate this acquisition related and integration costs, and impairments.
a change to the cost of such liabilities as recognised in profit or change.
No restatement has been deemed necessary on the grounds of materiality.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Central OF ESTIMATES administration costs are allocated to the individual segments on a consistent basis year-on-year.
All assets and liabilities have been The application of the Groups accounting policies requires III PROVISIONS analysed by segment, except for items of a financing nature, taxation balances, employee benefit liabilities and current and non-current management to make estimates and assumptions.
These The Group measures provisions at the Directors best estimate of the asset investments.
Debt and associated interest is managed at a Group level and therefore has not been allocated across the segments.
estimates and assumptions affect the reported assets and liabilities expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.
Actual outcomes could differ These estimates are made, taking account of information available DCH and Central Total Western Northern Europe continuing from the estimates and assumptions used.
UK Europe Europe and Italy Plastics operations Year ended 30 April 2016 Note m m m m m m The Groups accounting policies that are most critical to an IV TAXATION External revenue 864 1,044 853 1,022 283 4,066 understanding of the results and position of the Group, and the The Groups tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws EBITDA 112 113 118 122 41 506 judgements involved in their application, are as follows: and regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions Depreciation 11 27 36 25 30 9 127 in which the Group operates.
The Group is required to exercise 1 I ACQUISITIONS Operating profit 85 77 93 92 32 379 judgement in determining income tax provisions, along with the Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method based Unallocated items: recognition of deferred tax assets liabilities.
Assets and liabilities Amortisation 10 51 to ensure that estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts are measured at fair value, and the purchase price is allocated to could be different from those expected.
Exceptional items 4 78 assets and liabilities based on these fair values.
Determining fair Total operating profit continuing operations 250 values involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions V EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS including discount rates, asset lives, customer attrition rates and In applying the exceptional items accounting policy to items of Analysis of total assets and total liabilities recoverability, and the value of intangible assets and property, income and expenditure, the Group takes account of the origination Segment assets 747 959 899 1,031 175 3,811 plant and equipment for material acquisitions is typically and of similar items in prior years to ensure consistency and Unallocated items: determined by external qualified valuers.
Equity accounted investments and other investments 7 Derivative financial instruments 57 Y IFRS STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE Cash and cash equivalents 134 The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued Tax 69 new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
Total assets 4,078 Effective date International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS financial year ending Segment liabilities 227 438 170 256 58 1,149 IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IFRS 11 30 April 2017 Unallocated items: IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1 30 April 2017 Borrowings and accrued interest 1,295 Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 30 April 2017 Derivative financial instruments 56 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 30 April 2017 Tax 250 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 30 April 2019 Employee benefits 188 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 30 April 2019 Total liabilities 2,938 IFRS 16 Leases 30 April 2020 Of these, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 16 Leases are expected to have the most significant effect.
Capital expenditure 53 51 42 72 11 229 IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 concerns the classification and measurement of 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
financial assets and financial liabilities, the fide-recognition of financial instruments and hedge accounting.
com 114 Financial Statements 114 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
SEGMENT REPORTING CONTINUED DCH and Central Total Western Northern Europe continuing UK Europe Europe and Italy Plastics operations Year ended 30 April 2015 Note m m m m m m External revenue 905 941 922 750 302 3,820 EBITDA 107 99 119 89 38 452 Depreciation 11 26 34 23 24 10 117 1 Operating profit 81 65 96 65 28 335 Unallocated items: Amortisation 10 46 Exceptional items 4 40 Total operating profit continuing operations 249 Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Segment assets 709 728 829 612 174 3,052 Unallocated items: Equity accounted investments and other investments 21 Derivative financial instruments 37 Cash and cash equivalents 95 Tax 96 Total assets 3,301 Segment liabilities 250 314 166 188 61 979 Unallocated items: Borrowings and accrued interest 805 Derivative financial instruments 31 Tax 268 Employee benefits 200 Total liabilities 2,283 Capital expenditure 42 35 39 41 10 167 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS In presenting information by geographical area, external revenue is based on the geographical location of customers.
Non-current assets are based on the geographical location of assets and exclude investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments and intangible assets which are monitored at the operating segment level, not at a country level.
External revenue Non-current assets Capital expenditure 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Continuing operations m m m m m m UK 813 879 382 357 54 42 France 629 620 224 211 29 27 Germany 533 579 272 241 30 28 Italy 444 429 186 161 24 19 Rest of the World 1,647 1,313 617 377 92 51 4,066 3,820 1,681 1,347 229 167 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 115 114 Financial Statements Financial Statements 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
OPERATING PROFIT 2016 2015 DCH and Central Total Continuing operations m m Western Northern Europe continuing UK Europe Europe and Italy Plastics operations Operating costs Year ended 30 April 2015 Note m m m m m m Cost of sales 2,050 1,926 External revenue 905 941 922 750 302 3,820 Other production costs 772 740 EBITDA 107 99 119 89 38 452 Distribution 284 275 Depreciation 11 26 34 23 24 10 117 Administrative expenses 673 575 1 Operating profit 81 65 96 65 28 335 3,779 3,516 Unallocated items: Details of exceptional items included in operating profit are set out in note 4.
Amortisation 10 46 Exceptional items 4 40 Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following: Total operating profit continuing operations 249 2016 2015 Continuing operations m m Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Depreciation owned assets 124 115 Segment assets 709 728 829 612 174 3,052 leased assets 3 2 Unallocated items: Amortisation of intangible assets 51 46 Equity accounted investments and other investments 21 Profit on sale of non-current assets 12 8 Derivative financial instruments 37 Hire of plant and machinery 14 14 Cash and cash equivalents 95 Other operating lease rentals 22 21 Tax 96 Research and development 4 6 Total assets 3,301 2016 2015 Segment liabilities 250 314 166 188 61 979 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Unallocated items: Auditors remuneration m m m m m m Borrowings and accrued interest 805 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for audit of the Companys annual Derivative financial instruments 31 accounts 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Tax 268 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services: Employee benefits 200 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.6 1.5 2.1 0.6 0.9 1.5 Total liabilities 2,283 Total audit fees 0.7 1.5 2.2 0.7 0.9 1.6 Corporate finance services 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Capital expenditure 42 35 39 41 10 167 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Tax and other services 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 1 Adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items.
Total non-audit fees 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS Total Auditors remuneration 1.2 1.5 2.7 1.1 0.9 2.0 In presenting information by geographical area, external revenue is based on the geographical location of customers.
Non-current assets are based on the geographical location of assets and exclude investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments and A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 70 to 73 and includes an intangible assets which are monitored at the operating segment level, not at a country level.
explanation of how the external Auditors objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the external Auditor.
com 116 Financial Statements 116 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Items are presented as exceptional in the financial statements where they are significant items of financial performance that the Directors consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group.
Such items include business disposals, restructuring and optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs, and impairments.
2016 2015 Continuing operations m m Acquisition related costs 9 4 Gains losses on acquisitions and divestments 23 5 Acquisitions and disposals 14 9 Integration costs 12 Other restructuring costs 50 31 Impairment of assets 21 4 Other 9 4 Total pre-tax exceptional items recognised in operating profit 78 40 Income tax credit on exceptional items 27 10 Share of exceptional loss of associate, net of tax 7 Exceptional finance cost 1 4 Total post-tax exceptional items 52 41 2015 16 Acquisition costs of 9m consist of professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees and attributable internal salary costs relating to the review of potential deals, and deals completed during the year including the acquisition of Duropack and Lantero.
Other acquisitions completed in the year are detailed in note 31.
Gains on acquisitions and divestments of 23m comprise the profit on sale of StePac of 9m, with the majority of the remainder relating to a 10m gain on the step acquisition of the Lantero business where previously the Group held an associate interest.
Integration costs relate to integration projects underway to achieve cost synergies from the acquisitions made in the year, including Duropack and Lantero.
Of the 50m other restructuring costs, 10m relates to the closure of the Wansbrough paper mill in the UK, announced in October 2015 after the completion of a consultation process.
The majority of the remainder relates to further reorganisation and restructuring in the UK 10m, DCH and Northern Europe 17m and Western Europe 7m.
Impairment of assets of 21m is primarily associated with the announced closure of the Wansbrough paper mill in the UK.
Other exceptional items of 9m mainly relate to European centralisation and optimisation projects of 5m, site remediation costs of 2m, and the continuing costs of UK centralisation projects of 1m.
The income tax credit on exceptional items includes an amount received from the previous owners of an acquired business under the tax indemnity 3m, the reversal of provisions made on acquisition of a business for tax 2m, and the tax effect at the local applicable tax rate of exceptional items that are subject to tax.
The above exceptional items give rise to a net income tax effect, with the exception of gains and losses on certain divestments which are not subject to tax under local rules, and non-tax deductible deal related advisory fees in relation to acquisitions and disposals.
2014 15 The loss on acquisitions and divestments of 5m comprises a 3m gain on the disposal of the Foam business in Denmark and Sweden in September 2014, a gain of 2m on the step acquisition of the Italian Recycling business from 50% to 100% in July 2014, offset by a loss of 9m on the divestment of the Nantes paper mill in France in January 2015 and other losses on divestment of 1m.
Of the 31m other restructuring costs, 10m relates to UK site closures and reorganisations, 11m relates to restructuring of businesses in the DCH and Northern Europe region and 3m relates to restructuring of businesses in UK Recycling.
Other exceptional items of 4m principally relate to the release of acquisition related provisions of 16m, partially offset by the costs of continuing UK centralisation projects of 9m.
The share of exceptional loss of associate relates to the Groups share of post-tax foreign exchange losses recognised in the Groups Ukrainian associate Rubezhansk as a result of the significant decline in the value of the Ukrainian currency, Hryvnia, during the local geopolitical crisis note 12.
The exceptional finance cost of 4m relates to the write-off of unamortised finance costs relating to the SCA acquisition following the refinancing of borrowings in May 2014.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 117 116 Financial Statements Financial Statements 117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 2016 2015 Items are presented as exceptional in the financial statements where they are significant items of financial performance that the Directors Continuing operations m m consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group.
Such items include Interest income from financial assets 1 1 business disposals, restructuring and optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs, and impairments.
Other 2 2016 2015 Finance income 1 3 Continuing operations m m Interest on loans and overdrafts 38 37 Acquisition related costs 9 4 Other 5 2 Gains losses on acquisitions and divestments 23 5 Finance costs 43 39 Acquisitions and disposals 14 9 Integration costs 12 6.
PERSONNEL EXPENSES Other restructuring costs 50 31 2016 2015 Impairment of assets 21 4 Continuing operations m m Other 9 4 Wages and salaries 705 672 Total pre-tax exceptional items recognised in operating profit 78 40 Social security costs 148 135 Income tax credit on exceptional items 27 10 Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 30 29 Share of exceptional loss of associate, net of tax 7 Service costs for defined benefit schemes note 25 6 4 Exceptional finance cost 1 4 Share-based payment expense note 26 6 5 Total post-tax exceptional items 52 41 Personnel expenses 895 845 2015 16 Acquisition costs of 9m consist of professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees and attributable internal salary costs relating to 2016 2015 Average number of employees Number Number the review of potential deals, and deals completed during the year including the acquisition of Duropack and Lantero.
Other acquisitions UK 5,277 5,374 completed in the year are detailed in note 31.
Western Europe 6,844 6,010 Gains on acquisitions and divestments of 23m comprise the profit on sale of StePac of 9m, with the majority of the remainder relating DCH and Northern Europe 4,860 5,301 to a 10m gain on the step acquisition of the Lantero business where previously the Group held an associate interest.
Central Europe and Italy 8,585 4,781 Rest of the World 499 548 Integration costs relate to integration projects underway to achieve cost synergies from the acquisitions made in the year, including Average number of employees 26,065 22,014 Duropack and Lantero.
Of the 50m other restructuring costs, 10m relates to the closure of the Wansbrough paper mill in the UK, announced in October 2015 7.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE after the completion of a consultation process.
The majority of the remainder relates to further reorganisation and restructuring in the 2016 2015 UK 10m, DCH and Northern Europe 17m and Western Europe 7m.
Continuing operations m m Current tax expense Impairment of assets of 21m is primarily associated with the announced closure of the Wansbrough paper mill in the UK.
Current year 84 73 Other exceptional items of 9m mainly relate to European centralisation and optimisation projects of 5m, site remediation costs of 2m, Adjustment in respect of prior years 6 1 and the continuing costs of UK centralisation projects of 1m.
78 72 Deferred tax credit The income tax credit on exceptional items includes an amount received from the previous owners of an acquired business under the tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 23 10 indemnity 3m, the reversal of provisions made on acquisition of a business for tax 2m, and the tax effect at the local applicable tax Reduction in tax rates 4 rate of exceptional items that are subject to tax.
The above exceptional items give rise to a net income tax effect, with the exception of Adjustment in respect of prior years 2 8 gains and losses on certain divestments which are not subject to tax under local rules, and non-tax deductible deal related advisory fees 17 18 in relation to acquisitions and disposals.
Total income tax expense before exceptional items 61 54 2014 15 Tax relating to exceptional items note 4 27 10 The loss on acquisitions and divestments of 5m comprises a 3m gain on the disposal of the Foam business in Denmark and Sweden in Total income tax expense in the income statement from continuing operations 34 44 September 2014, a gain of 2m on the step acquisition of the Italian Recycling business from 50% to 100% in July 2014, offset by a loss The tax credit on amortisation was 12m 2014 15: 12m.
of 9m on the divestment of the Nantes paper mill in France in January 2015 and other losses on divestment of 1m.
com 118 Financial Statements 118 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Profit before income tax 201 200 Share of loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 1 7 Profit before tax and share of loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 202 207 Income tax at the domestic corporation tax rate of 20.00% 2014 15: 20.92% 40 43 Effect of additional taxes and tax rates in overseas jurisdictions 15 19 Additional items deductible for tax purposes 16 18 Non-deductible expenses 12 17 Non-taxable gains 3 3 Release of prior year provisions in relation to acquired businesses 11 2 Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to acquired businesses 6 Reimbursement under tax indemnity in relation to acquired businesses 3 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 9 Effect of change in corporation tax rates 4 3 Income tax expense total Group 34 44 The Finance Act 2015 included a staged 2% reduction in the main UK Corporation tax rate to 18% which was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
Accordingly, the rate applied to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities is 18% 2014 15: 20%.
There has subsequently been an announcement that the rate of UK corporation tax will reduce to 17% from 2020.
TAX ON OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND EQUITY Tax Tax credit credit Gross charge Net Gross charge Net 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 m m m m m m Actuarial gain loss on employee benefits 11 5 6 65 10 55 Foreign currency translation differences and reclassification from translation reserve to income statement arising on divestment 49 4 53 105 21 126 Movements in cash flow hedges 2 2 5 1 4 Other comprehensive income expense for the year, net of tax 58 1 57 165 12 177 Issue of share capital 1 1 Employee share trust 7 7 Acquisition of subsidiary with non-controlling interests 4 4 Share-based payment expense 6 28 5 3 2 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 108 108 94 94 Other comprehensive expense income and changes in equity 46 1 45 254 15 269 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 119 118 Financial Statements Financial Statements 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
EARNINGS PER SHARE The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows: BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 2016 2015 2016 2015 Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 167m 156m m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares 943m 941m Profit before income tax 201 200 Basic earnings per share 17.7p 16.6p Share of loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 1 7 Profit before tax and share of loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 202 207 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 2016 2015 Income tax at the domestic corporation tax rate of 20.00% 2014 15: 20.92% 40 43 Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 167m 156m Effect of additional taxes and tax rates in overseas jurisdictions 15 19 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 943m 941m Additional items deductible for tax purposes 16 18 Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements 11m 9m Non-deductible expenses 12 17 Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 954m 950m Non-taxable gains 3 3 Diluted earnings per share 17.5p 16.4p Release of prior year provisions in relation to acquired businesses 11 2 Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to acquired businesses 6 The number of shares excludes the weighted average number of the Companys own shares held as treasury shares during the year of 1m Reimbursement under tax indemnity in relation to acquired businesses 3 2014 15: nil.
Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 9 ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS Effect of change in corporation tax rates 4 3 The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share, being the basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional Income tax expense total Group 34 44 items and amortisation of intangible assets, better explains the underlying performance of the Group.
A reconciliation of basic to adjusted earnings per share is as follows: The Finance Act 2015 included a staged 2% reduction in the main UK Corporation tax rate to 18% which was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
There has subsequently 2016 2015 been an announcement that the rate of UK corporation tax will reduce to 17% from 2020.
Basic Diluted Basic Diluted pence pence pence pence TAX ON OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND EQUITY m per share per share m per share per share Tax Tax Basic earnings 167 17.7p 17.5p 156 16.6p 16.4p credit credit Add back amortisation, after tax 39 4.2p 4.1p 34 3.6p 3.6p Gross charge Net Gross charge Net 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Add back exceptional items, after tax 52 5.5p 5.4p 41 4.3p 4.3p m m m m m m Adjusted earnings 258 27.4p 27.0p 231 24.5p 24.3p Actuarial gain loss on employee benefits 11 5 6 65 10 55 Foreign currency translation differences and reclassification 9.
DIVIDENDS PROPOSED AND PAID from translation reserve to income statement arising on divestment 49 4 53 105 21 126 2016 2015 Movements in cash flow hedges 2 2 5 1 4 Pence Pence Other comprehensive income expense per share m per share m for the year, net of tax 58 1 57 165 12 177 2014 15 interim dividend paid 3.7p 35 Issue of share capital 1 1 2014 15 final dividend paid 7.7p 73 Employee share trust 7 7 2015 16 interim dividend paid 4.0p 38 Acquisition of subsidiary with non-controlling interests 4 4 2015 16 final dividend proposed 8.8p 83 Share-based payment expense 6 28 5 3 2 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 108 108 94 94 2016 2015 Other comprehensive expense income and m m changes in equity 46 1 45 254 15 269 Paid during the year 108 94 The interim dividend in respect of 2015 16 of 4.0 pence per share 38m was paid after the year end on 3 May 2016.
The 2014 15 interim and final dividends were paid during the 2015 16 financial year.
A final dividend in respect of 2015 16 of 8.8 pence per share 83m has been proposed by the Directors after the reporting date.
com 120 Financial Statements 120 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intellectual Customer Goodwill Software property related Other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2015 588 38 22 340 48 1,036 Acquisitions 83 2 113 1 199 Additions 2 1 18 21 Adjustment related to business combinations in prior year 3 3 Disposals 1 1 Reclassification 7 1 5 3 Currency translation 36 2 30 4 72 At 30 April 2016 710 50 24 483 66 1,333 Amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2015 25 25 13 104 14 181 Amortisation 6 2 43 51 Disposals 1 1 Currency translation 1 2 9 1 13 At 30 April 2016 26 32 15 156 15 244 Carrying amount At 1 May 2015 563 13 9 236 34 855 At 30 April 2016 684 18 9 327 51 1,089 Intellectual Customer Goodwill Software property related Other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2014 631 35 26 373 53 1,118 Acquisitions 15 8 23 Additions 5 3 8 Divestments 6 2 8 Disposals 1 2 2 5 Reclassification to held for sale 1 1 Reclassification 3 3 Currency translation 51 4 2 41 4 102 At 30 April 2015 588 38 22 340 48 1,036 Amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2014 27 25 14 76 15 157 Amortisation 3 2 39 2 46 Disposals 1 2 1 4 Currency translation 2 2 1 11 2 18 At 30 April 2015 25 25 13 104 14 181 Carrying amount At 1 May 2014 604 10 12 297 38 961 At 30 April 2015 563 13 9 236 34 855 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 121 120 Financial Statements Financial Statements 121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Intellectual Customer GOODWILL Goodwill Software property related Other Total The CGU groups below represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and are not larger m m m m m m than the operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The carrying values of goodwill are split between Cost the CGU groups as follows: At 1 May 2015 588 38 22 340 48 1,036 Acquisitions 83 2 113 1 199 2016 2015 m m Additions 2 1 18 21 UK 159 147 Adjustment related to business combinations in prior year 3 3 Western Europe 160 140 Disposals 1 1 DCH and Northern Europe 197 187 Reclassification 7 1 5 3 Central Europe and Italy 121 46 Currency translation 36 2 30 4 72 Plastics 47 43 At 30 April 2016 710 50 24 483 66 1,333 Total goodwill 684 563 Amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2015 25 25 13 104 14 181 GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTS KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND METHODOLOGY Amortisation 6 2 43 51 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
The Disposals 1 1 recoverable amounts of the groups of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
No impairment arose in the year ended Currency translation 1 2 9 1 13 30 April 2016 as the recoverable amount of the groups of CGUs, based on value-in-use calculations, exceeded the carrying amounts.
At 30 April 2016 26 32 15 156 15 244 The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations are: Carrying amount the cash flow forecasts have been derived from the most recent Board approved budget for the year ending 30 April 2017 and are based At 1 May 2015 563 13 9 236 34 855 upon past performance, known changes and expectations of current market conditions, taking into account the cyclical nature of the At 30 April 2016 684 18 9 327 51 1,089 business: the sales volume and price assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts are the Directors estimates of likely future changes based upon historic performance and the current economic outlooks for the economies in which the Group operates.
These are viewed as the Intellectual Customer Goodwill Software property related Other Total key operating assumptions as they determine the Directors approach to margin and cost maintenance: m m m m m m the cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure are based upon past experience and include the replacement capital expenditure Cost required to generate the terminal cash flows: At 1 May 2014 631 35 26 373 53 1,118 cash flows beyond the budgeted period 2018 and beyond have been determined using a long-term growth rate specific to each of the Acquisitions 15 8 23 CGU groups based upon external sources such as the International Monetary Funds World Economic Outlook Database.
This resulted in Additions 5 3 8 an average growth rate for the total Group of 2.0%: and Divestments 6 2 8 Disposals 1 2 2 5 the pre-tax adjusted discount rate is derived from the weighted average cost of capital WACC for the Group of 9.5% 2014 15: 9.5%.
Reclassification to held for sale 1 1 The discount rate is a function of the cost of debt and equity.
The cost of equity is largely based upon the risk free rate for 30 year Reclassification 3 3 German Bund yields 75% and 30 year UK gilts 25%, adjusted for the relevant country market risk premium, ranging from 0% to Currency translation 51 4 2 41 4 102 12.5%, which reflects the increased risk of investing in country specific equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group At 30 April 2015 588 38 22 340 48 1,036 compared to the market as a whole.
This Group rate has been adjusted for the risks inherent in the countries in which the CGU group operates that are not reflected in the cash flow projections.
Amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2014 27 25 14 76 15 157 GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTS SENSITIVITIES Amortisation 3 2 39 2 46 The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows and results in significant headroom across all CGU groups.
Whilst Disposals 1 2 1 4 the Directors believe the assumptions used are realistic, it is possible that a reduction in the headroom would occur if any of the above key Currency translation 2 2 1 11 2 18 assumptions were adversely changed.
Factors which could cause an impairment are: At 30 April 2015 25 25 13 104 14 181 significant underperformance relative to the forecast: and Carrying amount deteriorations in the economies in which the Group operates.
At 1 May 2014 604 10 12 297 38 961 To support their assertions, the Directors have conducted sensitivity analyses to determine the impact that would result from the above At 30 April 2015 563 13 9 236 34 855 situations.
Key sensitivities tested included future growth and discount rates.
In these cases, if estimates of future growth were reduced to 0% per annum, or if the estimated discount rates applied to the cash flows were increased by 1%, there would still be significant headroom to support the carrying value of the assets.
Based on this analysis the Directors believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions detailed above would not cause the carrying value of CGU groups to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Therefore at 30 April 2016 no impairment charge is required against the carrying value of goodwill.
com 122 Financial Statements 122 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land and Plant and Fixtures Under buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2015 559 1,694 41 94 2,388 Acquisitions 80 114 4 7 205 Additions 14 82 4 120 220 Adjustment relating to business combination in prior year 3 3 Disposals 16 74 2 92 Transfers 18 47 4 69 Reclassification to from held for sale 3 48 51 Reclassification 3 3 Currency translation 38 105 5 5 153 At 30 April 2016 693 2,013 56 157 2,919 Depreciation and impairment At 1 May 2015 104 922 20 1,046 Depreciation charge 19 103 5 127 Impairment 4 15 19 Disposals 3 49 1 53 Reclassification to from held for sale 3 33 36 Currency translation 9 55 2 66 At 30 April 2016 136 1,079 26 1,241 Carrying amount At 1 May 2015 455 772 21 94 1,342 At 30 April 2016 557 934 30 157 1,678 Land and Plant and Fixtures Under buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2014 589 1,713 47 86 2,435 Acquisitions 10 23 2 35 Additions 11 71 3 93 178 Divestments 4 12 16 Disposals 9 37 2 1 49 Transfers 11 69 3 77 Reclassification to held for sale 8 8 Currency translation 49 125 6 7 187 At 30 April 2015 559 1,694 41 94 2,388 Depreciation and impairment At 1 May 2014 102 938 23 1,063 Depreciation charge 17 97 3 117 Impairment 4 4 Divestments 2 12 14 Disposals 2 35 2 39 Reclassification to held for sale 4 4 Currency translation 11 66 4 81 At 30 April 2015 104 922 20 1,046 Carrying amount At 1 May 2014 487 775 24 86 1,372 At 30 April 2015 455 772 21 94 1,342 The amounts above include land and buildings held under finance lease agreements.
At 30 April 2016, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was 21m 30 April 2015: 6m.
Assets under construction mainly relate to production machines being built for various sites across the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 123 122 Financial Statements Financial Statements 123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS Land and Plant and Fixtures Under 2016 2015 buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m m m At 1 May 17 24 Cost Disposal 10 3 At 1 May 2015 559 1,694 41 94 2,388 Share of loss of associate 1 Acquisitions 80 114 4 7 205 Reclassification 4 Additions 14 82 4 120 220 Share of Rubezhansk exceptional charge 7 Adjustment relating to business combination in prior year 3 3 Currency translation 2 1 Disposals 16 74 2 92 At 30 April 4 17 Transfers 18 47 4 69 Reclassification to from held for sale 3 48 51 PRINCIPAL EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS Ownership interest Reclassification 3 3 Principal country Currency translation 38 105 5 5 153 Nature of business of operation 2016 2015 At 30 April 2016 693 2,013 56 157 2,919 OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Packaging Mill Rubezhansk Paper and packaging Ukraine 49.6% 49.6% Depreciation and impairment Turkish Group Paper, packaging and recycling Turkey 49.0% At 1 May 2015 104 922 20 1,046 Lantero Group Packaging Spain 100% 25.0% Depreciation charge 19 103 5 127 The Group accounts for its investment in Rubezhansk using the equity method as associates because the Group has the ability to exercise Impairment 4 15 19 significant influence over the investment due to the Groups equity holdings.
Disposals 3 49 1 53 Reclassification to from held for sale 3 33 36 RUBEZHANSK Currency translation 9 55 2 66 For four months during the year ended 30 April 2015, the foreign exchange rate between the Ukrainian Hryvnia weakened against the At 30 April 2016 136 1,079 26 1,241 US dollar by over 10% in each month driven by the ongoing political unrest in Ukraine.
The Groups share of the resultant post-tax foreign exchange loss on retranslation of the associates US dollar loan liability in the prior year was classified as an exceptional item in the financial Carrying amount statements for 2014 15 note 4.
The Group continues to monitor the carrying values of its interest with particular reference to the At 1 May 2015 455 772 21 94 1,342 ongoing political unrest.
At 30 April 2016 557 934 30 157 1,678 TURKEY Land and Plant and Fixtures Under During the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group disposed of direct and indirect holdings in the following Turkish businesses: Yalova buildings equipment and fittings construction Total Ambalaj Sanayi five Ticaret AS : Kaplamin Ambalaj Sanayi five Ticaret A S : OVA Oluklu Mukavva Ambalaj Sanayi.
five Ticaret A S : Atkasan Atk m m m m m Cost Deerlendireme San.
A S and Selkasan Kait five Paketleme Malzemeleri Imalat San.
A S. Direct holdings varied between 2.2% and 49.0%.
See note 31 for further details.
At 1 May 2014 589 1,713 47 86 2,435 Acquisitions 10 23 2 35 LANTERO GROUP Additions 11 71 3 93 178 During the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the corrugated activities of Grupo Lantero, including those operations Divestments 4 12 16 in which DS Smith previously held an equity accounted minority.
Disposals 9 37 2 1 49 Transfers 11 69 3 77 SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF ASSOCIATES Reclassification to held for sale 8 8 The following items are an aggregate of the financial statements of the Groups main associates on a 100% basis.
Currency translation 49 125 6 7 187 2016 2015 At 30 April 2015 559 1,694 41 94 2,388 m m Depreciation and impairment Assets 61 304 At 1 May 2014 102 938 23 1,063 Liabilities 36 168 Depreciation charge 17 97 3 117 Revenue 82 359 Impairment 4 4 Loss after tax 2 18 Divestments 2 12 14 Other comprehensive expense 1 Disposals 2 35 2 39 Reclassification to held for sale 4 4 13.
OTHER INVESTMENTS Currency translation 11 66 4 81 2016 2015 At 30 April 2015 104 922 20 1,046 m m Other investments 3 3 Carrying amount Total non-current investments 3 3 At 1 May 2014 487 775 24 86 1,372 Other investments 1 At 30 April 2015 455 772 21 94 1,342 Total current investments 1 The amounts above include land and buildings held under finance lease agreements.
com 124 Financial Statements 124 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
INVENTORIES 2016 2015 m m Raw materials and consumables 178 132 Work in progress 20 14 Finished goods 140 110 338 256 Inventory provisions at 30 April 2016 were 29m 30 April 2015: 22m.
Inventory write-offs in the year totalled 4m 2014 15: 4m.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2016 2015 NonNoncurrent Current current Current m m m m Trade receivables 598 450 Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables 33 26 Prepayments and other receivables 3 131 5 124 3 696 5 548 Of which Of which past due but not impaired neither Net carrying impaired 1 month 13 36 612 More than amount nor past due or less months months months 12 months Trade receivables m m m m m m m At 30 April 2016 565 479 55 19 5 4 3 At 30 April 2015 424 360 41 15 4 3 1 MOVEMENT IN BAD AND DOUBTFUL RECEIVABLES ALLOWANCE 2016 2015 m m At 1 May 26 27 Uncollectible amounts written off 2 Decrease increase in allowance recognised in the income statement 1 1 Acquisitions 8 Currency translation 2 2 At 30 April 33 26 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and diverse.
Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2016 2015 NonNoncurrent Current current Current m m m m Trade payables 817 653 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 8 301 5 274 8 1,118 5 927 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 125 124 Financial Statements Financial Statements 125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Raw materials and consumables 178 132 Intangible assets 1 Work in progress 20 14 Property, plant and equipment 7 20 Finished goods 140 110 Inventories 7 338 256 Cash 6 Trade and other receivables 12 Inventory provisions at 30 April 2016 were 29m 30 April 2015: 22m.
Total assets held for sale 7 46 Trade and other payables 15 15.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Total liabilities held for sale 15 2016 2015 NonNonAssets held for sale at 30 April 2016 primarily relate to property, plant and equipment in Germany and the Netherlands.
Assets and liabilities current Current current Current held for sale at 30 April 2015 primarily relate to assets in the UK and the StePac business in the Plastics division.
NET DEBT Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables 33 26 2016 2015 Prepayments and other receivables 3 131 5 124 m m 3 696 5 548 Non-current liabilities 1,073 781 Current liabilities 185 2 Derivative financial instruments 19 17 Of which Net cash and cash equivalents 115 82 Of which past due but not impaired neither Net carrying impaired 1 month 13 36 612 More than Other deposits 25 33 amount nor past due or less months months months 12 months Net debt 1,099 651 Trade receivables m m m m m m m At 30 April 2016 565 479 55 19 5 4 3 The movement in net debt is as follows: At 30 April 2015 424 360 41 15 4 3 1 Foreign exchange, fair MOVEMENT IN BAD AND DOUBTFUL RECEIVABLES ALLOWANCE Continuing value and 2016 2015 At 1 May operations non-cash At 30 April m m 2015 cash flow Acquisitions movements 2016 At 1 May 26 27 m m m m m Uncollectible amounts written off 2 Cash and cash equivalents 95 8 24 7 134 Decrease increase in allowance recognised in the income statement 1 1 Overdrafts 13 4 2 19 Acquisitions 8 Net cash and cash equivalents 82 4 22 7 115 Currency translation 2 2 Other deposits 33 9 1 25 At 30 April 33 26 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due after one year 776 125 58 99 1,058 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due within one year 1 134 45 180 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and diverse.
Finance leases 6 5 17 2 20 Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES liabilities 4 1 1 6 2016 2015 733 264 120 97 1,214 NonNoncurrent Current current Current Net debt 651 260 98 90 1,099 m m m m Trade payables 817 653 Derivative financial instruments above relate to interest rate and cross-currency swaps used to hedge the Groups borrowings and the Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 8 301 5 274 ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
The difference between the amounts shown above and the total derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position relates to derivative financial instruments that hedge forecast foreign 8 1,118 5 927 currency transactions and the Groups purchases of energy.
Non-cash movements relate to amortisation of fees incurrent on debt issuance.
Other deposits are included as these short-term receivables have the characteristics of net debt.
com 126 Financial Statements 126 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2016 2015 m m Bank balances 131 79 Short-term deposits 3 16 Cash and cash equivalents Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 134 95 Bank overdrafts 19 13 Net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 115 82 20.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2016 2015 NonNonCurrent current Total Current current Total m m m m m m 1 Bank and other loans 115 306 421 1 367 368 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 2 $95m USD private placement 5.80% coupon August 2016 65 65 63 63 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.40% coupon August 2018 46 46 43 43 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.83% coupon August 2020 46 46 43 43 $400m USD private placement 4.48% weighted average coupon 3 August 2017-2022 272 272 260 260 500m euro medium term note 2.25% coupon September 2022 388 388 Finance lease liabilities 5 15 20 1 5 6 185 1,073 1,258 2 781 783 1 Drawings under a short-term bank revolving credit facility and other bank loans.
2 Swapped to floating-rate 17m based on 6 month EURIBOR plus a margin, and fixed-rate 41m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
3 Swapped to fixed-rate 130m and fixed-rate 160m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Borrowings are unsecured and measured at amortised cost, except for 14m of note purchase agreements in a fair value hedge relationship.
The syndicated bank revolving credit facility 800m was extended in May 2015 under its one year extension option, taking maturity to 2020.
Drawdowns under the facility bear interest at a margin over the applicable LIBOR or EURIBOR rate.
In September 2015 the Group issued a 500m fixed rate coupon Euro Medium Term Note.
The proceeds were used to repay the Groups syndicated bank term loan facility of 300m and drawings under the syndicated bank revolving credit facility.
There have been no breaches of covenants during the year ended 30 April 2016 in relation to the above loans and borrowings.
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Expiring between two and five years 500 649 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 127 126 Financial Statements Financial Statements 127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED 2016 2015 The repayment profile of the Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency and interest rate swaps, is as follows: m m 2016 Bank balances 131 79 1 year 12 25 More than Short-term deposits 3 16 or less years years 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 134 95 m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Bank overdrafts 19 13 Fixed-rate 58 20 155 592 825 Net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 115 82 Floating-rate 127 2 303 1 433 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 185 22 458 593 1,258 20.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2016 2015 2015 NonNon- 1 year 12 25 More than Current current Total Current current Total or less years years 5 years Total m m m m m m m m m m m 1 Bank and other loans 115 306 421 1 367 368 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt Fixed-rate 1 51 372 194 618 2 $95m USD private placement 5.80% coupon August 2016 65 65 63 63 Floating-rate 1 14 150 165 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.40% coupon August 2018 46 46 43 43 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2 65 522 194 783 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.83% coupon August 2020 46 46 43 43 $400m USD private placement 4.48% weighted average coupon The Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency and interest rate swaps, are denominated in the 3 August 2017-2022 272 272 260 260 following currencies: 500m euro medium term note 2.25% coupon September 2022 388 388 2016 Finance lease liabilities 5 15 20 1 5 6 Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total m m m m m 185 1,073 1,258 2 781 783 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1 Drawings under a short-term bank revolving credit facility and other bank loans.
Fixed-rate 194 630 1 825 2 Swapped to floating-rate 17m based on 6 month EURIBOR plus a margin, and fixed-rate 41m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Floating-rate 15 315 48 55 433 3 Swapped to fixed-rate 130m and fixed-rate 160m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
209 945 48 56 1,258 Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts Borrowings are unsecured and measured at amortised cost, except for 14m of note purchase agreements in a fair value hedge relationship.
Floating-rate 93 3 19 115 The syndicated bank revolving credit facility 800m was extended in May 2015 under its one year extension option, taking maturity to Net borrowings at 30 April 2016 209 852 45 37 1,143 2020.
2015 In September 2015 the Group issued a 500m fixed rate coupon Euro Medium Term Note.
The proceeds were used to repay the Groups Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total syndicated bank term loan facility of 300m and drawings under the syndicated bank revolving credit facility.
m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings There have been no breaches of covenants during the year ended 30 April 2016 in relation to the above loans and borrowings.
Fixed-rate 179 439 618 Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows: Floating-rate 110 33 22 165 179 549 33 22 783 2016 2015 Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts m m Floating-rate 24 44 3 11 82 Expiring between two and five years 500 649 Net borrowings at 30 April 2015 155 505 30 11 701 At 30 April 2016, 75% of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps, were denominated in euros in order to hedge the underlying assets of the Groups European operations 30 April 2015: 70%.
Interest rates on floating-rate borrowings are based on London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR, Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR or base rates.
FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES 2016 2015 Present Present Future value of Future value minimum minimum minimum of minimum lease lease lease lease payments Interest payments payments Interest payments m m m m m m Less than one year 5 5 1 1 Between one and five years 14 1 13 3 3 More than five years 2 2 2 2 Finance lease liabilities 21 1 20 6 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 dssmith.
com 128 Financial Statements 128 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives.
A summary of the Groups key financial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the Financial Review and Principal Risk sections of the Strategic Report.
The derivative financial instruments set out in this note have been entered into in line with the Groups risk management objectives.
The Groups treasury policy prohibits entering into speculative transactions.
A CARRYING AMOUNTS AND FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Set out below is the accounting classification of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and liabilities: 2016 2015 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 134 134 95 95 Available for sale other investments 3 3 44 Loans and receivables 699 699 553 553 Derivative financial instruments 57 57 37 37 Total financial assets 893 893 689 689 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1,126 1,126 932 932 Bank and other loans 421 421 368 368 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 817 876 409 500 Finance lease liabilities 20 20 6 6 Bank overdrafts 19 19 13 13 Derivative financial instruments 56 56 31 31 Total financial liabilities 2,459 2,518 1,759 1,850 The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arms-length basis.
For financial instruments carried at fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists.
The Group uses forward prices for valuing forward foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market yield curves to value note purchase agreements, the medium-term note, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative financial instruments are shown at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, only the portions of the note purchase agreements which form part of an effective fair value hedge are carried at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The majority of the Groups medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt are in effective cash flow and net investment hedges and are therefore held at amortised cost.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities which bear floating rates of interest are estimated to be equivalent to their book values.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires the classification of fair value measurements using the fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the assessments.
All of the Groups financial instruments are Level 2 financial instruments in accordance with the fair value hierarchy, where inputs are observable for the asset and liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 129 128 Financial Statements Financial Statements 129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The Groups activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business B DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS objectives.
A summary of the Groups key financial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity contracts, to manage the Financial Review and Principal Risk sections of the Strategic Report.
risks associated with the Groups underlying business activities and the financing of these activities.
Derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments are carried at their fair value.
The assets and liabilities of the Group at 30 April in respect of derivative financial instruments are as follows: Assets Liabilities Net A CARRYING AMOUNTS AND FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Set out below is the accounting classification of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and liabilities: m m m m m m 2016 2015 Derivatives held to: Carrying Carrying Manage the interest rate and currency exposures on business amount Fair value amount Fair value activities, borrowings and net investments 25 21 6 4 19 17 m m m m Derivative financial instruments included in net debt 25 21 6 4 19 17 Financial assets Derivatives held to hedge future transactions Cash and cash equivalents 134 134 95 95 Energy costs 32 16 50 27 18 11 Available for sale other investments 3 3 44 Total derivative financial instruments 57 37 56 31 1 6 Loans and receivables 699 699 553 553 Derivative financial instruments 57 57 37 37 Current 40 13 47 18 7 5 Total financial assets 893 893 689 689 Non-current 17 24 9 13 8 11 Financial liabilities 57 37 56 31 1 6 Trade and other payables 1,126 1,126 932 932 Bank and other loans 421 421 368 368 C CASH FLOW, FAIR VALUE AND NET INVESTMENT HEDGES Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 817 876 409 500 I CASH FLOW HEDGING RESERVE MOVEMENTS Finance lease liabilities 20 20 6 6 The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year.
Bank overdrafts 19 19 13 13 2016 2015 Derivative financial instruments 56 56 31 31 m m Total financial liabilities 2,459 2,518 1,759 1,850 At 1 May 27 31 Unrealised fair value gain loss on designated cash flow hedges The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arms-length basis.
For financial instruments Cross-currency and interest rate swaps 4 3 carried at fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists.
The Group uses forward prices Commodity contracts 22 22 for valuing forward foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market Loss recycled from equity to the income statement yield curves to value note purchase agreements, the medium-term note, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative Commodity contracts 16 23 financial instruments are shown at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
At 30 April 29 27 Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, only the portions of the note purchase agreements which form part The losses recycled to the income statement from the cash flow hedging reserve during the year are reflected in the following items in the of an effective fair value hedge are carried at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The majority of the Groups income statement: medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt are in effective cash flow and net investment hedges and are therefore held at amortised cost.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities which bear floating rates of interest are estimated to be equivalent to their 2016 2015 book values.
m m Revenue IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires the classification of fair value measurements using the fair value hierarchy that reflects Cost of sales 18 23 the significance of the inputs used in making the assessments.
Total loss recycled from equity to the income statement during the year 18 23 All of the Groups financial instruments are Level 2 financial instruments in accordance with the fair value hierarchy, where inputs are II FAIR VALUE HEDGES observable for the asset and liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
At 30 April 2016, the Group held interest rate and foreign exchange swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and foreign exchange risk on fixed rate debt payable by the Group.
The receive leg of the swap contracts is identical in all critical aspects to the terms of the underlying debt and therefore the hedging is treated as highly effective.
The pre-tax loss on hedging derivative instruments taken to the income statement during the year was 1m 2014 15: gain of 5m offset by a pre-tax gain on the fair value of the debt of 1m 2014 15: loss of 5m.
III HEDGES OF NET INVESTMENTS IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS The Group holds cross-currency interest rate swap contracts as hedges of long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The pre-tax loss on the hedges recognised in equity during the year was 21m 2014 15: gain of 30m.
This loss is matched by a similar gain in equity on the retranslation of the hedged foreign subsidiarys net assets resulting in a net gain of nil 2014 15: net gain of nil treated as hedge ineffectiveness in the income statement.
com 130 Financial Statements 130 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED D RISK IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT I CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group defines its managed capital as equity, as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, and net debt see note 18.
2016 2015 m m Net debt 1,099 651 Total equity 1,140 1,018 Managed capital 2,239 1,669 There have been no changes to the components of managed capital during the year.
Managed capital is different from capital employed defined as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital debtors creditors, provisions and assets liabilities held for sale.
Managed capital relates to our sources of funding, whereas return on average capital employed is our measure of the level of return being generated by the asset base.
The Group funds its operations from the following sources of capital: operating cash flow, borrowings, shareholders equity and, where appropriate, disposals of non-core businesses.
The Groups objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing flexibility in short and medium-term funding so as to accommodate significant investments or acquisitions.
The Group also aims to maintain a strong balance sheet and to provide continuity of financing by having a range of maturities and borrowing from a variety of sources.
The Groups overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed, as described elsewhere in this note.
The Groups treasury strategy is controlled through the Balance Sheet Committee which meets regularly and includes the Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Treasurer and the Group Head of Tax.
The Group Treasury function operates in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board and controlled by the Group Treasurer.
The function arranges funding for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements strategies for financial risk management.
II MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuate because of a change in market prices.
The Group is exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.
INTEREST RATE RISK The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as borrowings are arranged at fixed interest rates exposing it to fair value risk and floating interest rates exposing it to future cash flow risk.
The risk is managed by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating-rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap contracts which modify the interest payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
At 30 April 2016, 66% of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings were at fixed rates of interest 30 April 2015: 79%.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact on profit and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates in all currencies in which the Group had variable-rate borrowings at 30 April 2016.
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all variable-rate external interest-bearing loans and cash deposits have been increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of the Groups interest rate derivatives.
Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments only affect the Groups income statement.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 131 130 Financial Statements Financial Statements 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED D RISK IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT D RISK IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED I CAPITAL MANAGEMENT II MARKET RISK CONTINUED The Group defines its managed capital as equity, as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, and net debt The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
Impact Impact 2016 2015 Impact on on total Impact on on total m m profit equity profit equity Net debt 1,099 651 m m m m Total equity 1,140 1,018 Increase in market interest rates by 100 basis points 6 6 5 5 Managed capital 2,239 1,669 Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest rate amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
At 30 April 2016, losses of 13m 30 April 2015: losses of 17m net of tax are deferred in There have been no changes to the components of managed capital during the year.
Managed capital is different from capital employed defined as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital debtors creditors, provisions and equity in respect of cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
These will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will be during the period to 2022. assets liabilities held for sale.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK The Group funds its operations from the following sources of capital: operating cash flow, borrowings, shareholders equity and, where FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK ON INVESTMENTS appropriate, disposals of non-core businesses.
The Groups objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in Group entities, the functional currencies of which differ capital whilst providing flexibility in short and medium-term funding so as to accommodate significant investments or acquisitions.
The from the Groups presentational currency, sterling.
The Group partly hedges this exposure through borrowings denominated in foreign Group also aims to maintain a strong balance sheet and to provide continuity of financing by having a range of maturities and borrowing currencies and through cross-currency swap contracts.
Gains and losses for hedges of net investments are recognised in equity.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK ON BORROWINGS The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group hedges this exposure through The Groups overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed, as described elsewhere in this note.
The Groups treasury strategy is controlled cross-currency swaps designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
through the Balance Sheet Committee which meets regularly and includes the Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK ON TRANSACTIONS Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Treasurer and the Group Head of Tax.
The Group Treasury function operates Foreign currency transaction risk arises where a business unit makes product sales or purchases in a currency other than its functional in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board and controlled by the Group Treasurer.
The function arranges funding currency.
Part of this risk is hedged using foreign exchange contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements strategies for financial risk management.
At 30 April 2016, losses net of tax deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges were nil 30 April 2015: nil.
The The Groups main currency exposure is to the euro and the following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Group is exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.
2016 2015 INTEREST RATE RISK Average Closing Average Closing The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as borrowings are arranged at fixed interest rates exposing it to fair value risk and floating euro 1.340 1.272 1.290 1.368 interest rates exposing it to future cash flow risk.
The risk is managed by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating-rate borrowings and The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Groups results of a 10% increase and decrease in the sterling exchange rate by the use of interest rate swap contracts which modify the interest payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments.
The Groups against all other currencies representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
analysis is restricted to financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and excludes the impact of financial instruments At 30 April 2016, 66% of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings were at fixed rates of interest 30 April 2015: 79%.
The designated as net investment or fair value hedges.
sensitivity analysis below shows the impact on profit and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates representing Net investment and fair value hedges are excluded as the impact of the foreign exchange movements on these are offset by equal and managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates in all currencies in which the Group had variable-rate opposite movements in the hedged items.
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all variable-rate external interest-bearing loans and cash deposits have been increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the 2016 2015 effect of the Groups interest rate derivatives.
Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments only affect the Groups Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total income statement.
profit equity profit equity m m m m 10% strengthening of sterling 12 6 10% weakening of sterling 15 7 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 dssmith.
com 132 Financial Statements 132 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED D RISK IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED COMMODITY RISK The Groups main commodity exposures are to changes in gas and electricity prices.
This commodity price risk is managed by a combination of physical supply agreements and derivative instruments.
At 30 April 2016, losses of 16m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39 30 April 2015: losses of 10m.
These will be recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will occur within three years.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase in these prices, which is managements assessment of the reasonably possible change, on average, over any given year.
A decrease of 10% in these prices would produce an opposite effect on equity.
As all of the Groups commodity financial instruments achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39, there is no impact on profit for either year.
2016 2015 Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total profit equity profit equity m m m m 10% increase in electricity prices 1 1 10% increase in gas prices 11 13 III CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing financial loss to the Group.
In the current economic environment, the Group has placed increased emphasis on the management of credit risk.
The carrying amount of financial assets at 30 April 2016 was 893m and is analysed in note 21 A.
This represents the maximum credit risk exposure.
Credit risk on financial instruments held with financial institutions is assessed and managed by reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned to that counterparty by Standard & Poors and Moodys credit rating agencies.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
See note 15 for information on credit risk with respect to trade receivables.
IV LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
At 30 April 2016, the Group had 500m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 30 April 2015: 649m.
The Group mitigates its refinancing risk by raising its debt requirements from a number of different sources with a range of maturities.
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities including the effect of cross-currency and interest rate swaps.
Contractual repayments 1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2016 m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1,126 1,118 8 Bank and other loans 425 115 310 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 823 65 162 596 Finance lease liabilities 21 5 14 2 Bank overdrafts 19 19 Interest payments on borrowings 148 27 90 31 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 2,562 1,349 584 629 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 133 132 Financial Statements Financial Statements 133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED D RISK IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED D RISK IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Contractual repayments COMMODITY RISK 1 year 15 More than The Groups main commodity exposures are to changes in gas and electricity prices.
This commodity price risk is managed by a combination Total or less years 5 years of physical supply agreements and derivative instruments.
At 30 April 2016, losses of 16m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of At 30 April 2015 m m m m cash flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39 30 April 2015: losses of 10m.
These will be recycled to the income statement in the period Non-derivative financial liabilities in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will occur within three years.
Trade and other payables 932 927 5 Bank and other loans 372 372 The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase in these prices, which is managements assessment of the reasonably Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 409 165 244 possible change, on average, over any given year.
As all of Finance lease liabilities 6 2 3 1 the Groups commodity financial instruments achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39, there is no impact on profit for either year.
Bank overdrafts 13 13 The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
Interest payments on borrowings 103 21 59 23 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 1,835 963 604 268 2016 2015 Impact Impact Refer to note 29 for an analysis of the Groups future operating lease payments and to note 30 for a summary of the Groups capital Impact on on total Impact on on total profit equity profit equity commitments.
m m m m The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of derivative financial instruments excluding interest 10% increase in electricity prices 1 1 payments and receipts.
Where the payable and receivable legs of these derivatives are denominated in foreign currencies, the contractual 10% increase in gas prices 11 13 payments or receipts have been calculated based on exchange rates prevailing at the respective year-ends.
III CREDIT RISK Where applicable, interest and foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date are assumed to remain constant over the future Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing contractual maturities.
financial loss to the Group.
This represents the maximum credit Contractual payments receipts risk exposure.
1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years Credit risk on financial instruments held with financial institutions is assessed and managed by reference to the long-term credit ratings At 30 April 2016 m m m m assigned to that counterparty by Standard & Poors and Moodys credit rating agencies.
There are no significant concentrations of Derivative financial liabilities credit risk.
Energy derivatives 18 13 5 Interest rate and currency swaps: See note 15 for information on credit risk with respect to trade receivables.
Payments 601 138 144 319 IV LIQUIDITY RISK Receipts 631 146 151 334 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities Total net derivative financial assets liabilities 12 5 2 15 as they fall due.
At 30 April 2016, the Group Contractual payments receipts had 500m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 30 April 2015: 649m.
The Group mitigates its refinancing risk by raising its debt 1 year 15 More than requirements from a number of different sources with a range of maturities.
Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2015 m m m m The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities including the effect of cross-currency Derivative financial liabilities and interest rate swaps.
Energy derivatives 12 8 4 Contractual repayments Interest rate and currency swaps: 1 year 15 More than Payments 574 40 197 337 Total or less years 5 years Receipts 606 44 213 349 At 30 April 2016 m m m m Total net derivative financial assets liabilities 20 4 12 12 Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1,126 1,118 8 Bank and other loans 425 115 310 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 823 65 162 596 Finance lease liabilities 21 5 14 2 Bank overdrafts 19 19 Interest payments on borrowings 148 27 90 31 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 2,562 1,349 584 629 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 dssmith.
com 134 Financial Statements 134 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ANALYSIS OF MOVEMENTS IN RECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES DURING THE YEAR Property, plant and equipment and Employee benefits Tax intangible assets including pensions losses Other Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m m m m m At 1 May 131 155 54 48 23 10 9 18 63 79 Acquired disposed 28 2 5 1 22 2 Credit charge for the year 13 18 1 2 10 13 3 11 21 18 Recognised directly in equity 4 8 7 21 11 13 Currency translation 12 8 2 1 1 5 8 13 At 30 April 158 131 53 54 39 23 17 9 83 63 At 30 April 2016, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill: except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
RECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax liabilities 141 121 Deferred tax assets 58 58 Net deferred tax 83 63 The deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses primarily relates to the UK and is expected to be utilised over the next five years.
The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of 9m 30 April 2015: 9m.
These losses do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these benefits.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 276m 30 April 2015: 286m relating to unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at 30 April 2016 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdiction in which these subsidiaries operate.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 135 134 Financial Statements Financial Statements 135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 23.
PROVISIONS Restructuring Other Total ANALYSIS OF MOVEMENTS IN RECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES DURING THE YEAR m m m Property, plant and At 1 May 2015 15 26 41 equipment and Employee benefits Tax Charged to income 50 1 51 intangible assets including pensions losses Other Total Credited to income 1 1 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m m m m m Utilised 49 1 50 At 1 May 131 155 54 48 23 10 9 18 63 79 Currency translation 6 6 Acquired disposed 28 2 5 1 22 2 At 30 April 2016 22 19 41 Credit charge for the year 13 18 1 2 10 13 3 11 21 18 Recognised directly in equity 4 8 7 21 11 13 Non-current 1 4 5 Currency translation 12 8 2 1 1 5 8 13 Current 21 15 36 At 30 April 158 131 53 54 39 23 17 9 83 63 22 19 41 At 30 April 2016, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences: The restructuring provision includes amounts associated with the closures, restructuring and integration costs described in note 4.
Other provisions mainly relate to site restorations and to provisions for vacant leaseholds.
The timing of the utilisation of these provisions except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill: is uncertain, except where the associated costs are contractual, in which case the provision is utilised over the time period specified in except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, the contract.
affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the 24.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES reversal of temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that temporary differences will not reverse in the SHARE CAPITAL foreseeable future.
Number of shares 2016 2015 2016 2015 RECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES millions millions m m Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each: deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 945 942 94 94 2016 2015 During the year ended 30 April 2016, 2,784,230 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued as a result of exercises of employee m m share options.
The net movement in share capital and share premium is disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Deferred tax liabilities 141 121 Deferred tax assets 58 58 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at Net deferred tax 83 63 meetings of the Company.
In respect of the Companys shares that are held by the Group, all rights are suspended until those shares are reissued.
The deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses primarily relates to the UK and is expected to be utilised over the next five years.
TRANSLATION RESERVE The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of 9m 30 April 2015: 9m.
These losses do not expire under The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future operations and the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these benefits.
HEDGING RESERVE No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 276m 30 April 2015: 286m relating to unremitted earnings of The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at 30 April 2016 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend SHARE PREMIUM withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdiction in which these subsidiaries operate.
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
OWN SHARES The reserve for the Companys own shares comprises the cost of the Companys shares held by the Group.
The Group operates a General Employee Benefit Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the requirements of the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan.
At 30 April 2016, the Trust held 1.6m shares 30 April 2015: 0.1m shares.
The market value of the shares at 30 April 2016 was 4.4m 30 April 2015: 0.3m.
Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the Trust have been waived.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS The Group has various put options in relation to subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
The Group records a liability at the net present value of the expected future payments, with a corresponding entry against non-controlling interests in respect of the non-controlling shareholders put option, measured at fair value.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes recorded within finance costs through the income statement and then transferred out of retained earnings into non-controlling interests.
com 136 Financial Statements 136 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Total UK Overseas 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Balance sheet m m m m m m Present value of post-retirement obligations 1,142 1,197 1,006 1,063 136 134 Fair value of plan assets Equities multi-strategy 237 568 229 560 8 8 Debt instruments 137 410 124 388 13 22 Derivatives 427 427 Insurance contracts 6 6 Real estate 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 24 12 3 6 21 6 Other 130 6 130 6 957 1,002 913 954 44 48 Net post-retirement plan deficit 185 195 93 109 92 86 Other employee benefit liabilities 3 5 3 5 Total employee benefit liabilities 188 200 93 109 95 91 Related deferred tax asset 43 48 17 22 26 26 Net employee benefit liabilities 145 152 76 87 69 65 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT SCHEMES At 30 April 2016, the Group operated a number of employee benefit arrangements for the benefit of its employees throughout the world.
The plans are provided through both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements and their legal status and control vary depending on the conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
Pension scheme trustees and representatives of the Group work with those managing the employee benefit arrangements to monitor the effects on the arrangements of changes in financial markets and the impact of uncertainty in assumption, and to develop strategies that could mitigate the risks to which these employee benefit schemes expose the Group.
UK SCHEMES The DS Smith Group Pension Scheme the Group Scheme is a UK funded final salary defined benefit scheme providing pensions and lump sum benefits to members and dependants.
The Group Scheme closed to future accrual from 30 April 2011 with pensions calculated based on pensionable salaries up to the point of closure or the date of leaving the Group Scheme, if earlier.
The Group Scheme has a normal retirement age of 65 although some members are able to take their benefits earlier than this.
Increases to pensions are affected by changes in the rate of inflation for the majority of members.
The Group Scheme is governed by a Trustee Company DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited, which is comprised of a Board of Trustee Directors the Trustee Board and is independent of the Group.
The Trustee Board is responsible for managing the operation, funding and investment strategy of the Group Scheme.
UK legislation requires the Trustee Board to carry out actuarial funding valuations at least every three years and to target full funding over an appropriate period of time, taking into account the current circumstances of the Group Scheme and the Group on a basis that prudently reflects the risk to which the Group Scheme is exposed the Technical Provisions basis.
The most recent funding valuation was carried out as at 30 April 2013, following which a deficit recovery plan was agreed with the Trustee Board on 18 July 2014.
This recovery plan agreed that the Group would remove the deficit by paying annual contributions, starting at 15.7m in the year ended 30 April 2015 and increasing by approximately 2% per annum, for a period of 8 years and 9 months, such that the final contribution is made by 31 January 2023.
The next funding valuation is being carried out as at 30 April 2016.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 137 136 Financial Statements Financial Statements 137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED Total UK Overseas UK SCHEMES CONTINUED 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 The Trustee Board and the Group have in place a secondary Long-Term Funding Target the LTFT, in addition to the statutory funding Balance sheet m m m m m m requirement, the purpose of which is to achieve material additional security for the Group Schemes members.
The objective of the LTFT Present value of post-retirement obligations 1,142 1,197 1,006 1,063 136 134 is for the Group Scheme to be funded to a level by 30 April 2035 that does not rely on contributions from the Group.
In March 2016, a new investment strategy was designed and introduced with the aim to significantly reduce risk whilst maintaining Fair value of plan assets the existing level of expected return.
To achieve this, the Group Schemes actual exposure to equity assets was reduced and the revised Equities multi-strategy 237 568 229 560 8 8 strategy aims to more closely align movements in the Group Schemes assets to that of its liabilities.
To do this, it has looked to hedge its Debt instruments 137 410 124 388 13 22 inflation and interest rate risk exposure.
Through the use of derivatives it has managed to maintain a similar level of overall return but with Derivatives 427 427 lower expected variability, despite the reduction in equity exposure.
To help the Trustee Board to monitor, review and assess investment Insurance contracts 6 6 matters, the Investment and Funding Committee the IFC, which consists of representatives from the Trustee Board and the Group, Real estate 2 2 meets on a quarterly basis throughout the year.
Cash and cash equivalents 24 12 3 6 21 6 Other 130 6 130 6 The Group Scheme exposes the Group to risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and investment risk.
957 1,002 913 954 44 48 As the Group Schemes obligation is to provide lifetime pension benefits to members upon retirement, increases in life expectancy will Net post-retirement plan deficit 185 195 93 109 92 86 result in an increase in the Group Schemes liabilities.
Other assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation are also uncertain.
Other employee benefit liabilities 3 5 3 5 The largest defined contribution arrangement operated by the Group is in the UK.
The UK defined contribution scheme is a trust-based Total employee benefit liabilities 188 200 93 109 95 91 arrangement offering members a range of investments.
All assets are held independently from the Group.
The Group also operates a Related deferred tax asset 43 48 17 22 26 26 small unfunded arrangement in the UK.
Net employee benefit liabilities 145 152 76 87 69 65 OVERSEAS SCHEMES EMPLOYEE BENEFIT SCHEMES The countries where the Group operates the most significant defined benefit post-retirement arrangements are: At 30 April 2016, the Group operated a number of employee benefit arrangements for the benefit of its employees throughout the world.
The plans are provided through both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements and their legal status and control vary France various mandatory retirement indemnities, post-retirement medical plans and jubilee arrangements benefits paid to employees after completion of a certain number of years of service the majority of which are determined by the applicable Collective depending on the conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
Bargaining Agreement: Pension scheme trustees and representatives of the Group work with those managing the employee benefit arrangements to monitor the Italy mandatory end-of-service lump sum benefits in respect of pre-2007 service: effects on the arrangements of changes in financial markets and the impact of uncertainty in assumption, and to develop strategies that Germany jubilee arrangements and non-contributory defined benefit pension schemes: and could mitigate the risks to which these employee benefit schemes expose the Group.
Netherlands transitional arrangements on closure of defined benefit scheme.
UK SCHEMES The DS Smith Group Pension Scheme the Group Scheme is a UK funded final salary defined benefit scheme providing pensions and lump In general, local trustees or similar bodies manage the post-retirement and medical plans in accordance with local regulations.
sum benefits to members and dependants.
The Group Scheme closed to future accrual from 30 April 2011 with pensions calculated based Other employee benefits relate to pre-retirement benefits in Germany.
on pensionable salaries up to the point of closure or the date of leaving the Group Scheme, if earlier.
The Group Scheme has a normal Overseas schemes expose the Group to risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk, investment risk, life retirement age of 65 although some members are able to take their benefits earlier than this.
Increases to pensions are affected by expectancy risk and healthcare cost risk.
Actions taken by the local regulator, or changes to legislation, could result in stronger local changes in the rate of inflation for the majority of members.
funding requirements for pension schemes, which could affect the Groups future cash flow.
The Group Scheme is governed by a Trustee Company DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited, which is comprised of a Board of Trustee Directors MOVEMENTS IN THE LIABILITY FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS OBLIGATIONS RECOGNISED IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF the Trustee Board and is independent of the Group.
The Trustee Board is responsible for managing the operation, funding and investment FINANCIAL POSITION strategy of the Group Scheme.
2016 2015 m m UK legislation requires the Trustee Board to carry out actuarial funding valuations at least every three years and to target full funding over Schemes liabilities at 1 May 1,202 1,059 an appropriate period of time, taking into account the current circumstances of the Group Scheme and the Group on a basis that prudently Acquisitions 9 reflects the risk to which the Group Scheme is exposed the Technical Provisions basis.
The most recent funding valuation was carried out Interest cost 38 43 as at 30 April 2013, following which a deficit recovery plan was agreed with the Trustee Board on 18 July 2014.
This recovery plan agreed Service cost recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 6 4 that the Group would remove the deficit by paying annual contributions, starting at 15.7m in the year ended 30 April 2015 and increasing by approximately 2% per annum, for a period of 8 years and 9 months, such that the final contribution is made by 31 January 2023.
The Member contributions 1 Settlement curtailment 2 2 next funding valuation is being carried out as at 30 April 2016.
Pension payments 45 40 Unfunded benefits paid 7 6 Actuarial gains losses financial assumptions 46 142 Actuarial gains experience 3 2 Actuarial gains losses demographic 10 6 Currency translation 8 12 Reclassification 5 9 Schemes liabilities at 30 April 1,145 1,202 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 dssmith.
com 138 Financial Statements 138 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED MOVEMENTS IN THE FAIR VALUE OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS ASSETS RECOGNISED IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 2016 2015 m m Schemes assets at 1 May 1,002 908 Employer contributions 17 17 Member contributions 1 Settlement curtailment 2 Interest income 33 39 Actuarial losses gains 48 81 Pension payments 45 40 Currency translation 3 2 Reclassification 5 Schemes assets at 30 April 957 1,002 DURATIONS AND EXPECTED PAYMENT PROFILE The following table provides information on the distribution of the timing of expected benefit payments for the Group Scheme: Within 5 6 to 10 11 to 20 21 to 30 31 to 40 41 to 50 Over 50 years years years years years years years At 30 April 2016 m m m m m m m Projected benefit payments 196 231 530 456 307 153 55 The weighted average duration for the Group Scheme is 18 years.
The Group made agreed contributions of 16m to the Group Scheme in 2015 16 2014 15: 16m.
A charge over certain assets of the Group has been made as security for certain unfunded arrangements.
The Groups current best estimate of contributions expected to be made to the Group Scheme in the year ending 30 April 2017 is approximately 16m.
SIGNIFICANT ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS Principal actuarial assumptions for the Group Scheme are as follows: 2016 2015 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.5% 3.5% Inflation 1.8% 2.1% Pre-retirement pension increases 1.8% 1.9% Future pension increases for pre 30 April 2005 service 1.9% 2.2% Future pension increases for post 30 April 2005 service 1.6% 1.8% For other overseas arrangements, the weighted average actuarial assumptions are a discount rate of 1.5% 30 April 2015: 1.2% and an inflation rate of 1.5% 30 April 2015: 1.4%.
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice and in accordance with the relevant standard mortality tables in each country.
For the Group Scheme at 30 April 2016, the mortality base table used is S1NMA S1NFA year of birth with a 1 year age rating, with CMI 2015 projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity improvement.
At 30 April 2015 the mortality base table used was S1NMA S1NFA year of birth with a 1 year age rating, with CMI 2014 projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity improvement.
As part of the Group Scheme actuarial valuation exercise the projected life expectancies were as follows: 2016 2015 Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 Member currently aged 65 21.3 23.7 21.5 23.9 Member currently aged 45 23.0 25.6 23.1 25.7 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 139 138 Financial Statements Financial Statements 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED MOVEMENTS IN THE FAIR VALUE OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS ASSETS RECOGNISED IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS FINANCIAL POSITION The sensitivity of the liabilities in the Group Scheme to each significant actuarial assumption is summarised in the following table, showing 2016 2015 the impact on the defined benefit obligation if each assumption is altered by the amount specified in isolation, whilst assuming that all m m other variables remain the same.
In practice, this approach is not necessarily realistic since some assumptions are related.
This sensitivity Schemes assets at 1 May 1,002 908 analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability, the measurement of which Employer contributions 17 17 depends on a number of factors including the fair value of plan assets.
Member contributions 1 Increase in Settlement curtailment 2 pension liability Interest income 33 39 m Actuarial losses gains 48 81 0.5% decrease in discount rate 85 Pension payments 45 40 0.5% increase in inflation 58 Currency translation 3 2 1 year increase in life expectancy 29 Reclassification 5 EXPENSE RECOGNISED IN THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Schemes assets at 30 April 957 1,002 Total DURATIONS AND EXPECTED PAYMENT PROFILE 2016 2015 m m The following table provides information on the distribution of the timing of expected benefit payments for the Group Scheme: Post-retirement benefits current service cost 6 3 Within 5 6 to 10 11 to 20 21 to 30 31 to 40 41 to 50 Over 50 Other employee benefit liabilities current service cost 1 years years years years years years years At 30 April 2016 Total service cost 6 4 m m m m m m m Projected benefit payments 196 231 530 456 307 153 55 Net interest cost on net pension liability 5 4 Pension Protection Fund levy 1 2 The weighted average duration for the Group Scheme is 18 years.
Employment benefit net finance expense 6 6 The Group made agreed contributions of 16m to the Group Scheme in 2015 16 2014 15: 16m.
A charge over certain assets of the Total expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 12 10 Group has been made as security for certain unfunded arrangements.
The Groups current best estimate of contributions expected to ITEMS RECOGNISED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME EXPENSE be made to the Group Scheme in the year ending 30 April 2017 is approximately 16m.
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation effect of change in financial assumptions 59 146 SIGNIFICANT ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in employment benefit net finance expense 48 81 Principal actuarial assumptions for the Group Scheme are as follows: Total gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income expense 11 65 2016 2015 26.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.5% 3.5% The Groups share-based payment arrangements are as follows: Inflation 1.8% 2.1% Pre-retirement pension increases 1.8% 1.9% i A Performance Share Plan PSP.
Awards under the PSP normally become exercisable after three years subject to remaining in service Future pension increases for pre 30 April 2005 service 1.9% 2.2% and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
Awards Future pension increases for post 30 April 2005 service 1.6% 1.8% have been made under the PSP annually since 2008, originally based on the following performance measures, in the proportions shown below: For other overseas arrangements, the weighted average actuarial assumptions are a discount rate of 1.5% 30 April 2015: 1.2% and an inflation rate of 1.5% 30 April 2015: 1.4%.
i. the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared to the constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the FTSE 250: Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice and in accordance with the relevant standard ii.
average adjusted earnings per share EPS : and mortality tables in each country.
For the Group Scheme at 30 April 2016, the mortality base table used is S1NMA S1NFA year of birth with a 1 year age rating, with CMI 2015 projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity iii.
average adjusted return on average capital employed ROACE.
At 30 April 2015 the mortality base table used was S1NMA S1NFA year of birth with a 1 year age rating, with CMI 2014 Awards between 2010 and 2014 are subject to three performance measures: projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity improvement.
As part of the Group Scheme actuarial valuation exercise the projected life expectancies were as follows: i.
50% of each award based on a TSR component: 2016 2015 ii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and Male Female Male Female iii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE.
Life expectancy at age 65 Member currently aged 65 21.3 23.7 21.5 23.9 Awards made in 2015 are subject to three performance measures: Member currently aged 45 23.0 25.6 23.1 25.7 i.
33.3% of each award based on a TSR component: ii.
33.3% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and iii.
33.3% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE.
The 2010, 2011 and 2012 awards have vested, but have not yet been fully exercised.
com 140 Financial Statements 140 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED ii A Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP is operated for Executive Directors and, from 2012 13, for senior executives.
Shares awarded under the Plan will vest automatically if the Director or senior executive is still employed by the Company three years after the grant of the award.
The 2012 award has vested, but has not yet been fully exercised.
iii A Share Matching Plan SMP is operated for Executive Directors and senior executives with the first award made in 2012 13.
The award will vest after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
The performance conditions of the award are based 50% on average adjusted EPS and 50% on average adjusted ROACE.
No further awards under this Plan will be made subsequent to the 2014 15 award granted in July 2014.
iv A Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP is operated for selected senior managers with the first award made in 2013 14.
v An international Sharesave Plan was introduced in January 2014 with a further invitation being made in January 2016.
All employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries were eligible to participate in this Plan.
Under this HMRC approved Plan, options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to a maximum of 250 or local currency equivalent across all open invitations per month over a period of three years at a discount of up to 20% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc ordinary share on the three dealing days prior to invitation.
Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed.
In common with most plans of this type there are no performance conditions applicable to options granted under this Plan.
The provisions of this Plan are subject to minor country specific variances.
A standard US Stock Purchase Plan, which received shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, was also introduced in January 2014 and a subsequent invitation was made in 2016.
US employees of the Group are eligible to participate in this Plan.
Options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to $405 per month over a period of two years at a discount of up to 15% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc ordinary share on the day before grant.
Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of two years has elapsed.
Full details of the awards described in i, ii, iii and v are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 77 to 96.
Options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements at 30 April 2016 were: Options outstanding Options exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number Option price contract life exercise Number exercise of shares range p years price p exercisable price p Performance Share Plan 6,205,877 Nil 1.0 Nil 814,682 Nil Deferred Share Bonus Plan 1,451,290 Nil 1.1 Nil 219,917 Nil Share Matching Plan 836,696 Nil 0.7 Nil 90,704 Nil Sharesave Plan 9,268,985 269.0 302.0 1.7 280.4 Nil Nil Options outstanding Options exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Option price contract life exercise Value exercise Value range p years price p exercisable price p Long-Term Incentive Plan 4,721,790 Nil 1.4 Nil Nil Nil Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 141 140 Financial Statements Financial Statements 141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Shares awarded The effect on earnings per share of potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements is shown in note 8. under the Plan will vest automatically if the Director or senior executive is still employed by the Company three years after the grant Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: of the award.
Performance Deferred Share Share Matching The 2012 award has vested, but has not yet been fully exercised.
Share Plan Bonus Plan Plan Weighted Weighted Weighted iii A Share Matching Plan SMP is operated for Executive Directors and senior executives with the first award made in 2012 13. average average average The award will vest after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2016 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
The performance conditions of the award are based 50% on At 1 May 2015 Nil 6,841 Nil 1,490 Nil 1,320 average adjusted EPS and 50% on average adjusted ROACE.
Granted Nil 1,783 Nil 482 Nil Exercised Nil 1,793 Nil 419 Nil 371 The 2012 award has vested, but has not yet been fully exercised.
Lapsed Nil 625 Nil 102 Nil 112 At 30 April 2016 Nil 6,206 Nil 1,451 Nil 837 iv A Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP is operated for selected senior managers with the first award made in 2013 14.
The award will vest after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial Exercisable at 30 April 2016 Nil 815 Nil 220 Nil 91 years commencing with the year of grant.
Sharesave Long-Term Plan Incentive Plan v An international Sharesave Plan was introduced in January 2014 with a further invitation being made in January 2016.
All employees Weighted Weighted of the Company and participating subsidiaries were eligible to participate in this Plan.
Under this HMRC approved Plan, options are average average granted to participants who have contracted to save up to a maximum of 250 or local currency equivalent across all open invitations exercise Options exercise Options 2016 continued price p 000s price p 000s per month over a period of three years at a discount of up to 20% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc ordinary share on the three dealing days prior to invitation.
In At 1 May 2015 269.0 6,832 Nil 3,118 common with most plans of this type there are no performance conditions applicable to options granted under this Plan.
The provisions Granted 302.0 3,225 Nil 1,604 of this Plan are subject to minor country specific variances.
A standard US Stock Purchase Plan, which received shareholder approval Exercised 269.0 203 Nil at the 2014 AGM, was also introduced in January 2014 and a subsequent invitation was made in 2016.
US employees of the Group are Lapsed 270.5 585 Nil eligible to participate in this Plan.
Options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to $405 per month over a period At 30 April 2016 280.4 9,269 Nil 4,722 of two years at a discount of up to 15% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc ordinary share on the day before Exercisable at 30 April 2016 Nil Nil grant.
Performance Substitute Share Deferred Share Share Plan Bonus Award Bonus Plan Options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements at 30 April 2016 were: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Options outstanding Options exercisable exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options Weighted 2015 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s average Weighted Weighted At 1 May 2014 Nil 7,164 Nil 116 Nil 1,244 remaining average average Number Option price contract life exercise Number exercise Granted Nil 2,221 Nil Nil 552 of shares range p years price p exercisable price p Exercised Nil 2,443 Nil 116 Nil 306 Performance Share Plan 6,205,877 Nil 1.0 Nil 814,682 Nil Lapsed Nil 101 Nil Nil Deferred Share Bonus Plan 1,451,290 Nil 1.1 Nil 219,917 Nil At 30 April 2015 Nil 6,841 Nil Nil 1,490 Share Matching Plan 836,696 Nil 0.7 Nil 90,704 Nil Exercisable at 30 April 2015 Nil 336 Nil Nil Sharesave Plan 9,268,985 269.0 302.0 1.7 280.4 Nil Nil Options outstanding Options exercisable Share Matching Sharesave Long-Term Term Weighted Plan Plan Incentive Plan average Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted remaining average average average average average Option price contract life exercise Value exercise exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options Value range p years price p exercisable price p 2015 continued price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s Long-Term Incentive Plan 4,721,790 Nil 1.4 Nil Nil Nil At 1 May 2014 Nil 877 263.2 7,962 Nil 1,558 Granted Nil 443 Nil Nil 1,560 Exercised Nil 130.6 305 Nil Lapsed Nil 263.2 825 Nil At 30 April 2015 Nil 1,320 269.0 6,832 Nil 3,118 Exercisable at 30 April 2015 Nil 269.0 Nil Annual Report & Accounts 2016 dssmith.
com 142 Financial Statements 142 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT EXPENSE CONTINUED The average share price of the Company during the financial year was 386.4 pence 2014 15: 306.2 pence.
The fair value of awards granted in the period relates to the PSP and DSBP schemes.
The fair value of the PSP award granted during the year, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was 5.4m.
The significant inputs into the model were: a share price of 382.9p for the PSP at the grant date: the exercise prices shown above: an expected initial volatility of the share price of 26.5% and long-term volatility of 28.6%: the scheme life disclosed above: an annual risk-free interest rate of 1.06% and an expected dividend yield of nil.
The volatility of share price returns measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of average weekly share prices from 1 January 1970.
The total charge for the year relating to share-based payments recognised as personnel expenses was 6m 2014 15: 5m.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 2016 2015 Continuing operations m m Profit for the year 167 156 Adjustments for: Pre-tax integration costs and other exceptional items 92 31 Amortisation of intangible assets and acquisitions and disposals 37 55 Cash outflow for exceptional items 77 49 Depreciation 127 117 Profit on sale of non-current assets 12 8 Share of loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 1 7 Employment benefit net finance expense 6 6 Share-based payment expense 6 5 Finance income 1 3 Finance costs 43 39 Other non-cash items including other deposits 2 7 Income tax expense 34 44 Change in provisions 18 15 Change in employee benefits 19 16 Cash generation before working capital movement 388 362 Changes in: Inventories 25 13 Trade and other receivables 33 65 Trade and other payables 48 49 Working capital movement 56 101 Cash generated from continuing operations 444 463 Includes gains on the sale of surplus property assets of 10m 2014 15: 6m.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 143 142 Financial Statements Financial Statements 143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT 2016 2015 The average share price of the Company during the financial year was 386.4 pence 2014 15: 306.2 pence.
m m The fair value of awards granted in the period relates to the PSP and DSBP schemes.
Continuing operations Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 379 335 The fair value of the PSP award granted during the year, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was 5.4m.
The significant Depreciation 127 117 inputs into the model were: a share price of 382.9p for the PSP at the grant date: the exercise prices shown above: an expected initial Adjusted EBITDA 506 452 volatility of the share price of 26.5% and long-term volatility of 28.6%: the scheme life disclosed above: an annual risk-free interest rate Working capital movement 56 101 of 1.06% and an expected dividend yield of nil.
The volatility of share price returns measured as the standard deviation of expected share Change in provisions 18 15 price returns is based on statistical analysis of average weekly share prices from 1 January 1970.
Change in employee benefits 19 16 The total charge for the year relating to share-based payments recognised as personnel expenses was 6m 2014 15: 5m.
Other 5 4 Cash generated from operations before exceptional cash items 520 518 27.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Capital expenditure 229 167 2016 2015 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other investments 28 18 Continuing operations m m Tax paid 49 28 Profit for the year 167 156 Net interest paid 32 34 Adjustments for: Free cash flow 238 307 Pre-tax integration costs and other exceptional items 92 31 Cash outflow for exceptional items 77 49 Amortisation of intangible assets and acquisitions and disposals 37 55 Dividends paid 108 94 Cash outflow for exceptional items 77 49 Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 313 28 Depreciation 127 117 Divestment of subsidiary and equity accounted businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 21 18 Profit on sale of non-current assets 12 8 Net cash flow 239 154 Share of loss of equity accounted investments, net of tax 1 7 Proceeds from issue of share capital 1 Employment benefit net finance expense 6 6 Loans and borrowings acquired 120 30 Share-based payment expense 6 5 Reclassification 9 Finance income 1 3 Net movement on debt 358 115 Finance costs 43 39 Foreign exchange, fair value and other non-cash movements note 18 90 61 Other non-cash items including other deposits 2 7 Net debt movement continuing operations 448 176 Income tax expense 34 44 Opening net debt 651 827 Change in provisions 18 15 Closing net debt 1,099 651 Change in employee benefits 19 16 Cash generation before working capital movement 388 362 29.
OPERATING LEASES Changes in: Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Inventories 25 13 Trade and other receivables 33 65 2016 2015 Trade and other payables 48 49 m m Less than one year 27 27 Working capital movement 56 101 Between one and five years 53 45 Cash generated from continuing operations 444 463 More than five years 15 11 Includes gains on the sale of surplus property assets of 10m 2014 15: 6m.
95 83 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, machines, vehicles and office equipment.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES At 30 April 2016, the Group had committed to incur capital expenditure of 26m 30 April 2015: 3m.
The Group is not subject to a material litigation, but has a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of business on behalf of trading subsidiaries including, inter alia, intellectual property disputes and regulatory enquiries in areas such as health and safety, environmental, and anti-trust.
No losses are anticipated to arise on these contingent liabilities.
As a result of previous acquisitions, various contingent liabilities were identified and included within provisions, as required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Whilst it is difficult to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of these claims, the Directors best estimate has been updated and included in the closing provision balance at 30 April 2016.
com 144 Financial Statements 144 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS A ACQUISITION OF DUROPACK On 31 May 2015, the Group acquired the Duropack business.
The acquisition was effected by the purchase of equity of the Duropack business for 305m on a cash, debt and, to the extent legally possible and commercially practicable, pension free basis.
The transaction was subject to customary post-completion adjustments.
Duropack, a recycled corrugated board packaging business, has market-leading positions across south eastern Europe, holding the number one or two position in many of the geographies in which it operates.
It is well invested with high quality assets and operates a short paper, long fibre model similar to that of the Group.
The Group expects that this acquisition will improve its position in higher growth south eastern European geographies, further strengthening pan-European capabilities to our existing customer base in addition to providing access to new customers.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for the Duropack business and provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Carrying values before Provisional acquisition fair values m m Intangible assets 2 44 Property, plant and equipment 95 97 Other non-current assets 3 1 Assets held for sale 1 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 5 5 Inventories 22 20 Trade and other receivables 53 49 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 70 73 Employee benefits 6 6 Cash and cash equivalents 15 15 Trade and other payables 29 33 Other non-current liabilities 2 1 Provisions 1 3 Total identifiable net assets acquired 87 106 Non-controlling interest acquired 4 Goodwill 51 Total consideration 153 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 153 Net cash flow arising on acquisition Cash consideration 153 Bank break fees paid 3 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 15 Total cash outflow 141 A detailed exercise has been undertaken to assess the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the use of third party experts where appropriate.
The fair value of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment has been assessed by reference to work performed by an independent valuation specialist.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition relate to customer relationships.
If new information obtained within one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date identifies adjustments to the above amounts, or any additional provisions that existed at the acquisition date, then the acquisition accounting will be revised.
Deferred tax is recognised on the temporary timing differences created by the fair value adjustments.
The trade and other receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of 52m.
At the acquisition date, it is estimated that contractual cash flows of 3m will not be collected.
Goodwill of 51m arising on the acquisition of Duropack which is not expected to be tax deductible includes anticipated synergies from integrating Duropack into the Group, and the skills and technical talent of the Duropack workforce.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 145 144 Financial Statements Financial Statements 145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS CONTINUED A ACQUISITION OF DUROPACK B ACQUISITION OF LANTERO On 31 May 2015, the Group acquired the Duropack business.
The acquisition was effected by the purchase of equity of the Duropack On 31 July 2015, the Group acquired the corrugated activities of Grupo Lantero, including several operations in which DS Smith previously business for 305m on a cash, debt and, to the extent legally possible and commercially practicable, pension free basis.
The transaction held an equity accounted minority.
was subject to customary post-completion adjustments.
The business is a well-invested Iberian corrugated producer with a strong focus in the FMCG sector, operating seven sites across Spain.
Duropack, a recycled corrugated board packaging business, has market-leading positions across south eastern Europe, holding the number This acquisition significantly strengthens the Groups operations in Spain, an important and growing market for corrugated packaging.
one or two position in many of the geographies in which it operates.
It is well invested with high quality assets and operates a short paper, This acquisition increases the Groups offering to pan-European customers in this large and growing market.
The acquisition was effected long fibre model similar to that of the Group.
by the purchase of equity, and the total consideration, including the assumption of debt, was 190m.
The Group expects that this acquisition will improve its position in higher growth south eastern European geographies, further The following table summarises the consideration paid for the Lantero business and provisional fair value of assets acquired and strengthening pan-European capabilities to our existing customer base in addition to providing access to new customers.
Carrying The following table summarises the consideration paid for the Duropack business and provisional fair value of assets acquired and values before Provisional liabilities assumed.
acquisition fair values m m Carrying values before Provisional Intangible assets 1 41 acquisition fair values Property, plant and equipment 69 79 m m Net deferred tax assets liabilities 1 5 Intangible assets 2 44 Inventories 10 10 Property, plant and equipment 95 97 Trade and other receivables 65 65 Other non-current assets 3 1 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 34 34 Assets held for sale 1 Cash and cash equivalents 4 4 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 5 5 Trade and other payables 49 50 Inventories 22 20 Provisions 2 Trade and other receivables 53 49 Total identifiable net assets acquired 67 108 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 70 73 Less fair value of pre-existing interest in Lantero 10 Employee benefits 6 6 Goodwill 4 Cash and cash equivalents 15 15 Total consideration 102 Trade and other payables 29 33 Satisfied by: Other non-current liabilities 2 1 Cash consideration 102 Provisions 1 3 Total identifiable net assets acquired 87 106 Net cash flow arising on acquisition Non-controlling interest acquired 4 Cash consideration 102 Goodwill 51 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 Total consideration 153 Total cash outflow 98 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 153 A detailed exercise has been undertaken to assess the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the use of third party experts where appropriate.
The fair value of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment has been assessed by Net cash flow arising on acquisition reference to work performed by an independent valuation specialist.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition relate Cash consideration 153 to customer relationships.
Bank break fees paid 3 If new information obtained within one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition Cash and cash equivalents acquired 15 date identifies adjustments to the above amounts, or any additional provisions that existed at the acquisition date, then the acquisition Total cash outflow 141 accounting will be revised.
A detailed exercise has been undertaken to assess the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the use of third party experts Deferred tax is recognised on the temporary timing differences created by the fair value adjustments.
The fair value of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment has been assessed by reference to work performed The trade and other receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of 67m.
At the acquisition date, it is estimated that contractual by an independent valuation specialist.
cash flows of 2m will not be collected.
If new information obtained within one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date The remeasurement to fair value of the Groups existing 25% interests in certain Lantero Group entities resulted in a gain of 10m.
identifies adjustments to the above amounts, or any additional provisions that existed at the acquisition date, then the acquisition accounting will be revised.
This gain has been included in exceptional items note 4.
Goodwill of 4m arising on the acquisition of Lantero which is not expected to be tax deductible includes anticipated synergies from integrating Lantero into the Group, and the skills and technical talent of the Lantero workforce.
com 146 Financial Statements 146 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS CONTINUED C 2015 16 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS During the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group acquired Duropack see A above and Lantero see B above.
In the year ended 30 April 2016, Duropack and Lantero contributed combined revenue of 300m and operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items of 26m to the Groups results.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 May 2015, estimated revenue and operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items for the combined entity would have been 4,122m and 382m respectively.
In addition to the acquisitions detailed above, the Group also made various other business acquisitions and disposals, which are not considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
These include the disposal of StePac for US$31m, the acquisition of the Greek corrugated packaging business of Cukurova Group with a simultaneous sale of the Groups minority shareholding in Cukurova Groups Turkish corrugated paper and packaging entities to the Cukurova Group, the acquisition of the Milas packaging business of DasaMilas Ambalaj, and the acquisition of a specialist high-quality packaging producer, TRM Packaging, in the UK.
D 2014 15 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS For various business combinations completed in the year ended 30 April 2015, certain fair values assigned to the net assets at the dates of acquisition were provisional and, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Group has adjusted the fair values attributable to these acquisitions during the year ended 30 April 2016, resulting in a net increase in goodwill of 3m.
Neither the acquisitions nor disposals during the year ended 30 April 2015 were considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
E ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS The Group incurred acquisition related costs of 9m 2014 15: 4m.
In 2015 16 these primarily related to the acquisition of the Duropack and Lantero Groups, the Greek corrugated packaging business of Cukurova Group and Milas Packaging, as well as other deal costs relating to reviewing potential acquisitions.
These costs have been included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement within exceptional items.
RELATED PARTIES IDENTITY OF RELATED PARTIES In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions with certain of its subsidiaries and equity accounted investments.
The key management personnel of the Company comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and non-Executive Directors.
The compensation of key management personnel can be found in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Certain key management also participate in the Groups share-based incentive programme note 26.
Included within the share-based payment expense is a charge of 2m 2014 15: 1m relating to key management.
Transactions with pension trustees are disclosed in note 25.
OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 2016 2015 m m Sales to equity accounted investees 2 3 Purchases from equity accounted investees 1 6 Amounts due from equity accounted investees 2 Advances to non-controlling interest 2 3 33.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On 21 June 2016, the Group reached agreement to purchase Gopaca, a corrugated producer in Portugal.
This is subject to competition clearance and is expected in calendar Q3 2016.
On 22 June 2016, the Group purchased Creo, a UK display, packaging and design business.
The two acquisitions are not material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
There are no further subsequent events after the reporting date which require disclosure.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 147 146 Financial Statements Financial Statements 147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
DS SMITH GROUP COMPANIES C 2015 16 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS The Groups ultimate parent company is DS Smith Plc.
During the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group acquired Duropack see A above and Lantero see B above.
Group companies are grouped by the countries in which they are incorporated or registered.
Unless otherwise noted, the undertakings In the year ended 30 April 2016, Duropack and Lantero contributed combined revenue of 300m and operating profit before amortisation below are wholly owned and consolidated by DS Smith and the share capital held comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by and exceptional items of 26m to the Groups results.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 May 2015, estimated revenue and operating Group subsidiaries.
Principal companies are identified in bold.
profit before amortisation and exceptional items for the combined entity would have been 4,122m and 382m respectively.
Fully owned subsidiaries DS Smith France S. A. S. Rapak GmbH DS Smith Htre Blanc SNC Gibraltar In addition to the acquisitions detailed above, the Group also made various other business acquisitions and disposals, which are not Australia considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
These include the disposal of StePac for US$31m, the acquisition of the Total Marketing Support Pacific Pty Ltd DS Smith Packaging Anjou S. A. S. DS Smith Finco IRE Limited DS Smith Packaging Atlantique S. A. S. Greece Greek corrugated packaging business of Cukurova Group with a simultaneous sale of the Groups minority shareholding in Cukurova Austria DS Smith Packaging Auneuil S. A. S. DS Smith Cretan Hellas S. A.
Groups Turkish corrugated paper and packaging entities to the Cukurova Group, the acquisition of the Milas packaging business of ARO Holding GmbH DS Smith Packaging Bretagne S. A. S. U. DS Smith Hellas S. A. DS Smith Austria Holdings GmbH DasaMilas Ambalaj, and the acquisition of a specialist high-quality packaging producer, TRM Packaging, in the UK.
DS Smith Packaging Austria GmbH DS Smith Packaging C. E. R. A. Hong Kong D 2014 15 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS DS Smith Packaging Consumer S. A. S. The Less Packaging Company Asia Limited DS Smith Packaging South East GmbH For various business combinations completed in the year ended 30 April 2015, certain fair values assigned to the net assets at the dates of DS Smith Packaging Contoire Hamel S. A. S. U. Hungary Sulipo Zweite  GmbH acquisition were provisional and, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Group has adjusted the fair values attributable to Wirth Verpackung GmbH DS Smith Packaging Corrugated Services S. A. S. DS Smith Packaging Fzesabony Kft these acquisitions during the year ended 30 April 2016, resulting in a net increase in goodwill of 3m.
Neither the acquisitions nor disposals DS Smith Packaging Display and Services S. A. S. DS Smith Packaging Hungary Kft Belgium during the year ended 30 April 2015 were considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
DS Smith Packaging Fegersheim S. A. S. India D. W. Plastics N. V. DS Smith Packaging Belgium NV DS Smith Packaging France S. A. S. DS Smith Products & Services India Private Limited E ACQUISITION RELATED COSTS DS Smith Packaging Kaypac S. A. S. The Less Packaging Company India Private Limited DS Smith Packaging Marketing NV The Group incurred acquisition related costs of 9m 2014 15: 4m.
In 2015 16 these primarily related to the acquisition of the Duropack DS Smith Packaging Larousse S. A. S. Ireland Bosnia and Lantero Groups, the Greek corrugated packaging business of Cukurova Group and Milas Packaging, as well as other deal costs relating DS Smith Packaging Mehun CIM S. A. S. David S. Smith Ireland Unlimited Company DS Smith Recycling Bosnia d. o. o. to reviewing potential acquisitions.
These costs have been included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement Duropack Sarajevo d. o. o. DS Smith Packaging Nord-Est S. A. S. DS Smith Packaging Ireland Limited within exceptional items.
DS Smith Packaging Normandie Ondul S. A. S. U. Italy Bulgaria 3 DS Smith Packaging Normandie S. A. S. DS Smith Holding Italia SpA DS Smith Bulgaria S. A.
RELATED PARTIES DS Smith Packaging Bulgaria Ltd. DS Smith Packaging Premium SA DS Smith Packaging Italia SpA IDENTITY OF RELATED PARTIES DS Smith Packaging Services S. A. S. DS Smith Paper Italia S. r. l. Rapak EAD In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions with certain of its subsidiaries and equity DS Smith Packaging Sud Est S. A. S. U. Italmaceri Srl China accounted investments.
6 DS Smith Shanghai Trading Ltd DS Smith Packaging Sud Ouest S. A. S. U. Scatolificio GABO Srl The key management personnel of the Company comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and non-Executive Directors.
The Croatia DS Smith Packaging Systems S. A. S. U. Tecnocarta Srl 4 compensation of key management personnel can be found in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Certain key management also participate DS Smith Packaging Velin S. A. S. U. Toscana Ondulati SPA Belie Energetika d. o. o.
8 in the Groups share-based incentive programme note 26.
Included within the share-based payment expense is a charge of 2m DS Smith Packaging Vervins S. A. S. Latvia Bilokalnik-IPA d. d. 2014 15: 1m relating to key management.
DS Smith Belie Croatia d. o. o. DS Smith Paper Kaysersberg S. A. S. SIA DS Smith Packaging Latvia DS Smith Perche SNC Lithuania DS Smith Plastics Karlovac d. o. o.
DS Smith Plastics France S. A. S. UAB DS Smith Packaging Lithuania DS Smith Unijapapir Croatia d. o. o.
OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Duropack Karton d. o. o. DS Smith Recycling France S. A. S. Luxembourg 5 2016 2015 DS Smith Rivatex S. A. S. DS Smith Luxembourg S.. r. l. Hrvatski Radio Vapovtina d. o. o. m m Otor Lease S. A. S. U. DS Smith Perch Luxembourg S.. r. l. Cyprus Sales to equity accounted investees 2 3 11 Aerozone Limited Rowlandson France S. A. S. DS Smith Re S. A.
Purchases from equity accounted investees 1 6 Socit Rouennaise fide Participations SA Macedonia the Former Yugoslav Republic of Czech Republic 7 Amounts due from equity accounted investees 2 Tecnicartn France S. A. S. DS Smith AD Skopje DS Smith Packaging Czech Republic s. r. o.
Advances to non-controlling interest 2 3 Germany Malaysia DS Smith Triss s. r. o.
9 Lovobal s. r. o. Bretschneider Verpackungen GmbH Total Marketing Support 36 Malaysia Sdn.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Delta Packaging Services GmbH Morocco Denmark DS Smith CREA Display GmbH DS Smith Maroc S. a. r. l. On 21 June 2016, the Group reached agreement to purchase Gopaca, a corrugated producer in Portugal.
This is subject to competition DS Smith Packaging Denmark A S Estonia DS Smith Hamburg Display GmbH Tecnicartn Tnger S. A. R. L. AU clearance and is expected in calendar Q3 2016.
DS Smith Packaging Arenshausen Mivepa GmbH Netherlands DS Smith Packaging Estonia A. S. The two acquisitions are not material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
DS Smith Packaging Arnstadt GmbH David S. Smith Netherlands B. V. Finland DS Smith Packaging Baltic Holding Oy DS Smith Packaging Beteiligungen GmbH DS Smith Holdings B. V. There are no further subsequent events after the reporting date which require disclosure.
DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung DS Smith Baars B. V. DS Smith Packaging Finland Oy DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung & Co KG DS Smith fide Hoop Holding B. V. DS Smith Packaging Pakkausjaloste Oy DS Smith Paper Deutschland GmbH DS Smith Hellas Netherlands B. V. Eastpac Oy France DS Smith Pre-Press Services GmbH DS Smith Italy B. V. DS Smith Recycling Deutschland GmbH DS Smith Packaging Almelo B. V. DS Smith Chouanard S. A. S. DS Smith Rhein Display GmbH DS Smith Packaging Barneveld B. V. DS Smith Ducaplast S. A. S. DS Smith Finance SNC DS Smith Stange B. V. & Co. KG DS Smith Transport Services GmbH DS Smith Wirth Verpackungen GmbH Annual Report & Accounts 2016 dssmith.
com 148 Financial Statements 148 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
DS SMITH GROUP COMPANIES CONTINUED Fully owned subsidiaries continued Switzerland Netherlands continued Multigraphics Holdings Limited DS Smith Packaging Belita B. V. DS Smith Packaging Switzerland AG Multigraphics Limited DS Smith Packaging Holding B. V. Thailand Multigraphics Services Limited DS Smith Packaging International B. V. DS Smith Rapak Thailand Limited Pavidda Paper Limited DS Smith Packaging Netherlands B. V. Turkey Priory Packaging Limited DS Smith Recycling Benelux B. V. DS Smith Ambalaj A.. rapak psi Limited DS Smith Recycling Holding B. V. UK Reed & Smith Limited A.
A. Griggs and Company Limited DS Smith Salm B. V. SRP New Thames Limited DS Smith Tilburg C. V. Abbey Corrugated Limited St. Regis Holdings plc DS Smith Toppositie B. V. Ashton Corrugated St. Regis International Limited Ashton Corrugated Southern Limited New Zealand St. Regis Kemsley Limited Rapak Asia Pacific Limited Avonbank Paper Disposal Limited St. Regis Packaging Scotland Limited Poland Biber Paper Converting Limited St. Regis Paper Company Limited Calara Holding Limited DS Smith Packaging sp.
The Brand Compliance Company Limited DS Smith Polska sp.
z o. o. Conew Limited The Less Packaging Company Limited Portugal Corrugated Products Limited The Wansbrough Paper Company Limited Tecnicartn Portugal Unipessoal LDA D. W. Plastics UK Limited TheBannerPeople.
Com Limited David S Smith Pension Contributions Limited Romania Tillotsons Corrugated Cases Limited DS Smith Bucharest S. R. L. David S. Smith Nominees Limited Total Marketing Support Global Limited DS Smith Packaging Romania S. R. L. DS Smith UK Limited Total Marketing Support Limited DS Smith Business Services Limited Russia Treforest Mill plc David S. Smith Vostok DS Smith Corrugated Packaging Limited TRM Packaging Limited Serbia DS Smith Display Holding Limited TRM Trustees Limited DS Smith Dormant Eight Limited DS Smith Inos Papir Servis d. o. o. W. Rowlandson & Company Limited DS Smith Dormant Five Limited DS Smith Packaging d. o. o. Kruevac Waddington & Duval Limited Papir Servis DP d. o. o. DS Smith Dormant Seven Limited USA Slovakia DS Smith Euro Finance Limited David S. Smith America, Inc. 1 DS Smith Finco Limited DS Smith Packaging Slovensko s. r. o. David S. Smith Holdings America, Inc. DS Smith Slovakia s. r. o. DS Smith Haddox Limited DS Smith USA Corporation 2 1 DS Smith Turpak Obaly a. s. DS Smith Holdings Limited DSS Rapak, Inc. DS Smith International Limited Slovenia Rapak, LLC DS Smith Packaging d. o. o. Rakek DS Smith Italy Limited The Less Packaging Company, Inc. Duropack d. o. o. DS Smith Logistics Limited Associate entities South Africa DS Smith Packaging Limited Netherlands 13 TMS 360 SA PTY Ltd DS Smith Paper Limited Industriewater Eerbeek B. V. 11 Spain DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited Stort Doonweg B. V. DS Smith Andorra S. A. U. DS Smith Perch Limited Ukraine 12 DS Smith Plastics Limited Bertako S. L. U. Rubizhanskiy Kartonno-Tarniy Kombinat DS Smith Carton Plastico s. a. DS Smith Recycling UK Limited Serbia 11 DS Smith Packaging Alcala S. L. U. DS Smith Saver Plus Trustees Limited Papir Pet d. o. o. DS Smith Sudbrook Limited DS Smith Packaging Cartogal S. L. U.
6 1 directly held by DS Smith Plc DS Smith Packaging Dicesa S. A. DS Smith Supplementary Life Cover Scheme Limited 2 98.89% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 DS Smith Packaging Flak S. L. DS Smith Ukraine Limited 3 99.7% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 DSS Eastern Europe Limited DS Smith Packaging Galicia SA 4 92% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 DS Smith Packaging Holding S. L. U. DSS Poznan Limited DS Smith Packaging Madrid S. L. DSSH No.
1 Limited 5 87.5% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 10 DS Smith Packaging Penedes S. A. U. First4Boxes Limited 6 80% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 Grovehurst Energy Limited DS Smith Packaging TCT S. A.
7 78.22% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 Tecnicartn, S. L. JDS Holding 8 75.9% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 Sweden Miljoint Limited 9 51% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 DS Smith Packaging Sweden AB 10 50.1% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 DS Smith Packaging Sweden Holding AB 11 50% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 12 49.6% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 13 37.5% ownership interest at 30 April 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016
