Accounting Policies Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on Basis of preparation an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are The Group financial statements consolidate those of Dunelm recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together any future periods affected.
The Company financial statements on pages 91 to 115 present information about the Company The key estimates and judgements used in the financial as a separate entity and not about its Group.
statements are as follows: The Group and its subsidiaries are domiciled, and are Inventory provisions incorporated as limited companies, in the UK.
The Group provides against the carrying value of the The Group financial statements have been prepared and inventories held where it is anticipated that net realisable value NRV will be below cost.
NRV is calculated as the expected approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations selling price less any cost to sell the goods.
Future price reductions in turn are assumed to be in line with the Groups Committee IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to standard approach to clearing discontinued and slow-moving inventory and are applied to such proportion of inventory as companies reporting under IFRS and these are presented on pages 91 to 115. deemed appropriate given the level of cover in relation to recent sales history, on a line by line basis.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in Basis of consolidation these Group financial statements.
Subsidiaries The annual financial statements are prepared under the Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
An historical cost convention except for financial assets and investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, financial liabilities, which have been stated at fair value.
The to variable returns from its involvement with the investee financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling, rounded and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to the nearest hundred thousand.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date Going concern that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with Transactions eliminated on consolidation long standing relationships with a number of key suppliers and an established reputation in the retail sector across the Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or UK.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial Having reassessed the principal risks, the Directors consider it statements.
Consistent accounting policies have been appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in adopted across the group.
Revenue Further information regarding the Groups business activities, Revenue is generated from the sale of homewares through together with the factors likely to affect its future development, the Groups stores and website, and small amounts of related performance and position is set out in the Strategic Report services such as the Dunelm at home consultants.
Revenue and Business Review on pages 3 to 34.
The financial position therefore represents the proceeds from sales of goods and of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing related services, excluding sales between Group companies facilities are described in the Chief Financial Officers review and is after deducting returns, discounts given and VAT.
In addition note 16 to the Annual Report Revenue is recognised when risk and reward passes to the and Accounts includes the Groups objectives, policies customer, which is predominantly at the point of sale.
The and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk exceptions to this are for custom-made products, where management objectives: and its exposures to credit risk and revenue is recognised at the point that the goods are liquidity risk.
collected, gift vouchers, where revenue is recognised when the vouchers are redeemed and web sales, where revenue is Use of estimates and judgements recognised at the point of delivery.
Revenue is settled in cash The presentation of the annual financial statements in at the point of sale.
conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions Foreign currencies that affect the application of policies and reported amounts Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Resulting exchange under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these gains or losses are recognised in the income statement for the estimates.
indd 96 12 10 2016 09:55:24 Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have Intangible assets different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items These comprise software development and implementation of property, plant and equipment.
costs and brands and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below.
Costs incurred in developing the Depreciation Groups own brands are expensed as incurred.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an Separately acquired brands are shown at historical cost.
Brands have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated item of property, plant and equipment to write down the cost to its estimated residual value.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of brands over their estimated estimated useful lives are as follows: useful lives.
freehold buildings 50 years Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on leasehold improvements over the period of the lease plant and machinery 4 years the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their fixtures and fittings 3 to 5 years estimated useful lives.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its Development costs that are directly attributable to the design recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater and testing of identifiable and unique software products than its estimated recoverable amount.
controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: Trade and other receivables z it is technically feasible to complete the software product so Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair that it will be available for use: value and then carried at amortised cost net of impairment provisions.
z management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it: Inventories z there is an ability to use or sell the software product: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable z it can be demonstrated how the software product will value.
Cost is derived using the average cost method and generate probable future economic benefits: includes costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their z adequate technical, financial and other resources to present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the complete the development and to use or sell the software estimated selling price less cost to sell in the ordinary course product are available: and of business.
Provisions are made for obsolete, slow-moving or z the expenditure attributable to the software product during discontinued stock and for stock losses.
its development can be reliably measured.
Cash and cash equivalents Other development expenditures that do not meet Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and these criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred.
All cash equivalents have an original maturity of three Development costs previously recognised as an expense are months or less.
not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets Trade and other payables are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Trade and payables are recognised initially at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Amortisation effective interest rate.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
These are Bank borrowings and borrowing costs as follows: Interest-bearing bank loans are initially recorded at their fair software development and licences 3 years value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Transaction trademarks and brands 5 to 15 years costs incurred are amortised over the term of the loan.
Borrowings are classed as current liabilities unless the Group has Property, plant and equipment an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at Owned assets least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses.
Derivative financial instruments Cost includes the original purchased price of the asset and the Derivative financial instruments used are forward foreign costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition exchange contracts and structured foreign exchange for intended use.
These are measured at fair value.
The fair values are Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 97 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-back.
indd 97 12 10 2016 09:55:24 financials Accounting Policies CONTINUED determined by reference to the market prices available from when the expected benefit to be derived by the Group from the market on which the instruments involved are traded.
a contract is lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups treasury policy.
These are A dilapidations provision is recognised when there is an instruments that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows expectation of future obligations relating to the maintenance that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a of leasehold properties arising from events such as lease highly probable forecasted transaction.
For cash flow hedges the proportion of the gain or loss Operating leases on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment and effective hedge, as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: motor vehicles.
Where a significant portion of the risks and Recognition and Measurement, is recognised in equity, rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor, these leases directly in the hedge reserve with any ineffective portion are classified as operating leases.
recognised in the income statement.
Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the and periodically throughout their duration to assess continuing income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of effectiveness.
The gains or losses that are recognised in equity the lease.
are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the income statement.
Expenses Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value derivative Property leases financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised Lease incentives received are recognised in the income in the income statement statement evenly over the full term of the lease.
Where leases for land and buildings provide for fixed rent Impairment review dates and amounts, the Group financial statements The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than account for such reviews by recognising, on a straight-line inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each basis, the total implicit minimum lease payments over the nonbalance sheet date to determine whether there is any cancellable period of the lease term.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Financing income expense Financing income expense comprises interest payable on The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value and value borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash interest receivable on funds invested and foreign exchange flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax gains and losses.
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time-value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an Retirement benefits asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, The Group operates a defined contribution pension plan using the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating a third-party provider.
Obligations for the contributions to this unit to which the asset belongs.
plan are recognised as an expense in the income statement as An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying incurred.
amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Share-based payment transactions income statement.
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services Share capital from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital services received in exchange for the grant of the options is treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity is determined by reference to the fair value of the options attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares granted: are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received net of any directly z including any market performance conditions for example, attributable incremental transactions costs and the related an entitys share price : income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the z excluding the impact of any service and non-market Companys equity holders.
performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the Provisions entity over a specified time period : and A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group z including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for has a current legal or constructive obligation as a result of example, the requirement for employees to save.
a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
A provision for onerous contracts, including property leases, is recognised dunelm.
indd 98 12 10 2016 09:55:24 Non-market performance and service conditions are included Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when in assumptions about the number of options that are expected there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income period, which is the period over which all of the specified taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide the balances on a net basis.
services in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the New standards and interpretations expense during the period between service commencement No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective period and grant date.
for the first time for the period beginning on or after 5 July At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its 2015 have had a material impact on the Group or Parent estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest Company.
based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises At the balance sheet date there are a number of new the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the standards and amendments to existing standards in issue income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
None of these is expected to have a When the options are exercised, the Company either issues significant effect on the financial statements of the Group or new shares, or uses treasury shares purchased for this purpose.
Parent Company, except the following, set out below: For issued new shares, the proceeds received net of any IFRS 9, Financial instruments, which is effective for periods directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share beginning on or after 1 January 2018, replaces IAS 39 and capital nominal value and share premium.
addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of The social security contributions payable in connection with financial assets and financial liabilities.
the grant of the share options is considered an integral part IFRS 16, Leases addresses the definition of a lease, of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cashrecognition and measurement of leases and establishes settled transaction.
principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the leasing activities of both lessees and Dividends lessors.
A key change arising from IFRS 16 is that most Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which operating leases will be accounted for on balance sheet for they are approved such that the Company is obligated to pay lessees.
The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases, and related the dividend.
Interim dividends are recorded when paid.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application is Taxation permitted, subject to EU endorsement and the entity adopting Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers at the same deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except time.
The full impact of IFRS 16 has not yet been assessed.
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be recognised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be recognised.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 99 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-back.
