Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial the Corporate Governance Report, confirm that, to the best of statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial z the Group financial statements, which have been prepared statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting profit of the Group: and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under z the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the company law the Directors must not approve the financial development and performance of the business and the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and position of the Group, together with a description of the fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In Disclosure of information to auditors preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: In accordance with Section 418, the Directors report shall include a statement, in the case of each Director in office at the z select suitable accounting policies and then apply them date the Directors report is approved, that: consistently: a. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit z make judgements and accounting estimates that are information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: reasonable and prudent: and z state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the b. he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have European Union have been followed, subject to any taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware material departures disclosed and explained in the financial of any relevant audit information and to establish that the statements: Companys auditors are aware of that information.
z prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
com Stock code: DNLM 84 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-middle.
indd 84 12 10 2016 09:56:54 Financials Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 85 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-back.
