Parent Company Accounting Policies Non-market performance and service conditions are included Basis of preparation in assumptions about the number of options that are expected The Company financial statements have been prepared and to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting approved by the Directors in accordance with International period, which is the period over which all of the specified Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
IFRSs and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant The financial statements of the Company are prepared date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the expense during the period between service commencement Companies Act 2006, applicable accounting standards and period and grant date.
specifically in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises expectation that the Company has adequate resources to the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in When the options are exercised, the Company either issues preparing the financial statements.
new shares, or uses treasury shares purchased for this purpose.
For issued new shares, the proceeds received net of any Investments directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at the capital nominal value and share premium.
adjusted cost of the investment.
IFRS 2 requires the Parent Company to recognise an increase in the cost of its investment The social security contributions payable in connection with in a subsidiary which has issued share options in the Parent the grant of the share options is considered an integral part Companys shares to its employees.
of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cashsettled transaction.
Current assets Dividends Trade and other receivables Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair they are approved such that the Company is obligated to pay value and then carried at amortised cost net of impairment the dividend.
Taxation Share capital Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the sold or reissued, any consideration received net of any directly taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or attributable incremental transaction costs and the related substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with income tax effects is included in equity attributable to the any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the Share-based payments carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting The Company operates one equity-settled, share-based purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
compensation plan, under which the entity receives services from A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is employees as consideration for equity instruments options of probable that future taxable profits will be available against the Company.
The fair value of the employee services received which the asset can be recognised.
Deferred tax assets are in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by related tax benefit will be recognised.
reference to the fair value of the options granted: z including any market performance conditions for example, New standards and interpretations an entitys share price : No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective z excluding the impact of any service and non-market for the first time for the period beginning on or after 5 July performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, 2015 have had a material impact on the Parent Company.
sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the At the balance sheet date there are a number of new standards entity over a specified time period : and and amendments to existing standards in issue but not yet z including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for effective.
None of these is expected to have a significant effect example, the requirement for employees to save.
on the financial statements of the Company.
