Strategic report Governance Accounts Notes to the company accounts a Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Company accounts are the same as those set out in note 1 to the consolidated accounts with the addition of the following.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Where subsidiary undertakings incur charges for share-based payments in respect of share options and awards granted by the Company, a capital contribution in the same amount is recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to shareholders equity.
b Income statement and statement of total comprehensive income In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
The Companys profit for the year was 307 million 2015: 221 million.
Included in this amount are dividends received of 259 million 2015: 199 million, which are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
The Company recognised no other income or expenses in either the current or prior year, other than the profit for each year.
The Company has eight employees at 30 September 2016 2015: eight, however one employee left the Companys employment on 1 October 2016.
These employees are the Non-Executive Directors of easyJet plc: their remuneration is paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
The Executive Directors of easyJet plc are employed and paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
Details of Directors' remuneration are disclosed in note 4 to the consolidated accounts and in the Directors' remuneration report on pages 60 to 75. c Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings were as follows: 2016 2015 million million At 1 October 878 309 Capital contributions to subsidiaries 19 18 Allotment and issue of shares by subsidiaries 551 At 30 September 897 878 A full list of Group companies are detailed below.
Percentage of ordinary shares Country of incorporation Principal activity held easyJet Airline Company Limited England and Wales Airline operator 100 easyJet Switzerland S. A. Switzerland Airline operator 49 Dawn Licensing Holdings Limited Malta Holding company 100 Dawn Licensing Limited Malta Graphic design 100 1 easyJet Sterling Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100 1 easyJet Leasing Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100 1 Although these companies are Cayman Islands incorporated they have always been, and continue to be, UK tax resident.
The Company has a 49% interest in easyJet Switzerland S. A. with an option to acquire the remaining 51%.
The option is automatically extended for a further year on a rolling basis, unless the option is terminated by written agreement prior to the automatic renewal date.
easyJet Switzerland S. A. is a subsidiary on the basis that the Company exercises a dominant influence over the undertaking.
A non-controlling interest has not been reflected in the consolidated accounts on the basis that holders of the remaining 51% of the shares have no entitlement to any dividends from that holding and the Company has an option to acquire those shares for a predetermined minimal consideration.
d Financial instruments On 9 February 2016, easyJet plc issued a 500 million Eurobond under the 3,000 million Euro Medium Term Programme guaranteed by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
At the same time the Company entered into cross-currency interest rate swaps to convert the entire 500 million fixed rate Eurobond to a Sterling floating rate exposure.
For further details please refer to note 21 of the consolidated accounts.
e Borrowings Current Non-current Total million million million At 30 September 2016 Eurobond 435 435 For further details please see the disclosures shown in note 14 to the consolidated accounts.
com 117 Notes to the company accounts continued f Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash used by operations 2016 2015 million million Profit for the year 307 221 Adjustments for: Finance and other similar income 16 15 Unrealised foreign exchange differences 45 12 Tax charge 12 5 Dividends received 259 199 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 1 Changes in working capital: Increase in amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 50 35 Increase in derivative financial instruments 3 54 35 g Guarantees and contingent liabilities The Company has given a formal undertaking to the Civil Aviation Authority to guarantee the payment and discharge of all liabilities of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The guarantee is required for that company to maintain its operating licence under Regulation 3 of the Licensing of Air Carriers Regulations 1992.
The Company has issued a guarantee in favour of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in relation to the processing of credit card transactions, and also in respect of hedging transactions carried out according to treasury policy.
The Company has guaranteed the contractual obligations of easyJet Airline Company Limited and easyJet Leasing Limited, both subsidiary undertakings, in respect of its contractual obligations to Airbus SAS in respect of the supply of Airbus 320 family aircraft.
The Company has guaranteed the repayment of borrowings that financed the acquisition of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has also guaranteed the payment obligations for the lease of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has guaranteed certain letters of credit issued on behalf of subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has guaranteed the contractual obligations of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in respect of a $500 million revolving credit facility.
The revolving credit facility was agreed during the year ended 30 September 2015, for a minimum of five years, and was undrawn at 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015.
The facility is due to mature in February 2021.
No amount is recognised on the Company statement of financial position in respect to any of these guarantees as it is not probable that there will be an outflow of resources.
h Related party transactions Transactions with subsidiary undertakings, which principally relate to the provision of funding within the Group, are carried out on an arm's length basis.
Outstanding balances are placed on intercompany accounts with no specified credit period, are unsecured, and bear market rates of interest.
On 9 February 2016 easyJet plc provided easyJet Airline Company Limited with a loan of 379 million.
The loan is interest bearing, with an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin.
The loan is repayable within five working days of a written demand of repayment.
At the same time easyJet plc entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap with easyJet Airline Company Limited, to convert 500 million with a fixed interest rate of 1.75% per annum to 379 million at a variable rate of LIBOR plus a margin, for a period consistent with the underlying loan.
On 18 October 2016 easyJet plc provided easyJet Airline Company Limited with a loan of 500 million.
The loan is interest bearing, with a fixed interest rate of 1.125%.
For full details of transactions and arrangements with easyJets largest shareholder, see note 26 of the consolidated accounts.
118 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
