Glossary Adjusted capital employed Capital employed plus seven times operating lease costs incurred in the year.
Adjusted net cash debt Net cash debt less seven times operating lease costs incurred in the year.
Aircraft dry Payments to lessors under dry leasing arrangements relate solely to the provision of an aircraft.
Payments to lessors under wet leasing arrangements relate to the provision of wet leasing aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance.
Aircraft owned leased at end of year Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over one months duration at the end of the period.
Available seat kilometres ASK Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
Average adjusted The average of opening and closing capital employed.
capital employed Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
Capital employed Shareholders equity less net cash debt.
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat kilometres.
Cost per seat Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by seats flown.
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, aircraft dry leasing costs, and profit or loss on disposal of aircraft held for sale.
Gearing Adjusted net cash debt divided by the sum of shareholders equity and adjusted net cash debt.
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
Net cash debt Total cash less borrowings.
Cash includes money market deposits but excludes restricted cash.
Normalised operating profit after tax Reported operating profit adjusted for one-third of operating lease costs incurred in the year, less tax at the prevailing UK corporation tax rate at the end of the financial year.
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Passengers Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprises seats sold to passengers including no-shows, seats provided for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for business travel.
Profit before tax per seat Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
Revenue The sum of seat revenue and non-seat revenue.
Revenue passenger Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres those passengers were flown.
kilometres RPK Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Revenue per seat Revenue divided by seats flown.
ROCE Return on capital employed.
ROCE excluding lease adjustments Operating profit, less tax at the prevailing UK corporation tax rate at the end of the financial year, divided by average capital employed.
ROCE including lease adjustments Normalised operating profit after tax divided by average adjusted capital employed.
Seats flown Seats available for passengers.
120 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 WED LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE WHO HAS HELPED TO PRODUCE THIS REPORT: Paul Ablin, Charlotte Allin, Adle Anderson, Michael Barker, Meena Bhatia-Ahir, Maxwell Bruce, Gail Butler, Phil Chastell, Rob Denham, Peter Duffy, AndrewFindlay, James Fisher, Matt Garner, Bill Gosbee, Pallavi Ghosh, MichaelHargitay, Mike Hirst, Stuart Knapp, Mark Johnston, Sarah Kayser, NickKennedy, MonikaKuznik, Brian Madiyiko, Carolyn McCall DBE, Jo Merchant, Tom Minion, Paul Moore, Stuart Morgan, Kyla Mullins, Matthew Newman, EmmaPapworth, Mark Ramsden, Mary Robertson, Zarina Sabir, Ben Souter, IanSoutherland, Hayley Thomas, Claire Walker, Geoff Want, Charlotte Warner, Charles Whitehouse and all of our employees across thenetwork.
Annual report and accounts 2016 Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF www.
