34 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual financial report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors of the Company each confirm to the best of their knowledge, that: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company taken as a whole: and this annual financial report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors consider that this annual financial report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Jim Pettigrew Chairman Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors 25 May 2016 Electronic Publication The annual financial report is published on www.
co. uk edinburgh which is the Companys section of the Managers website maintained by the Companys Manager.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
