THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 61 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark An index against which performance is compared.
For the Company this is the FTSE All-Share Index.
Discount Premium The amount by which the share price of an investment trust is lower higher than the net asset value per share.
The discount premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value of the share.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the current share price.
Gearing The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings that a company has invested, with debt at par.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if a companys investments were to rise or fall.
A positive percentage indicates the extent to which shareholders funds are geared: a nil gearing percentage, or nil, shows a company is ungeared.
A negative percentage indicates that a company is not fully invested.
There are several methods of calculating gearing and the following has been used in this report: Gross Gearing This reflects the amount of gross borrowings in use by a company and takes no account of any cash balances.
It is based on gross borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Gearing This reflects the amount of net borrowings invested, ie borrowings less cash and investments in money market funds.
It is based on net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Leverage Leverage, for the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, is not synonymous with gearing as defined above.
In addition to borrowings, it encompasses anything that increases the Companys exposure, including foreign currency and exposure gained through derivatives.
Leverage expresses the Companys exposure as a ratio of the Companys net asset value.
Two methods of calculating such exposure are set out in the AIFMD, gross and commitment.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the aggregate of all the Companys exposures other than cash balances held in base currency and without any offsetting.
The commitment method takes into account hedging and other netting arrangements designed to limit risk, offsetting them against the underlying exposure.
Net Asset Value NAV Also described as shareholders funds, the net asset value is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities include current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value per share is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Ongoing Charges Ratio This is calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC as follows: the annualised ongoing charges, including those charged to capital but excluding interest, incurred by the Company, expressed as a percentage of the average undiluted net asset value at market value reported in the period.
Return The return generated in a period from the investments.
Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding any income returns.
Total Return reflects the aggregate of capital and income returns in the period.
The NAV total return reflects capital changes in the NAV and dividends paid in the period.
Share Price Total Return The share price total return reflects the change in the share price with dividends reinvested in the period, and is also known as total shareholder return.
62 ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE DISCLOSURE Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, the Directive The Company falls within the definition of an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the Directive and, as such, is required to have or be an authorised AIFM.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML was authorised as an AIFM, and appointed by the Company effective from 22 July 2014.
Amongst other things, regulations implementing AIFMD require certain information to be provided to prospective investors.
This information can be found in the Companys section of the Managers website www.
co. uk edinburgh in a downloadable document entitled AIFMD Investor Information.
There have been no material changes to this information in the year to 31 March 2016 or up to the date of this report.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the Directive will be disclosed through a primary information provider.
In addition, the Directive requires information in relation to the Companys leverage both gross and commitment see Glossary on page 61 and the remuneration of the Companys AIFM IFML to be made available to investors.
Accordingly: the leverage calculated for the Company at its year end was 112.6% for both gross and commitment 2015: both 110.3%.
The limits the AIFM has set for the Company remain unchanged at 250% and 200%, respectively: the AIFM remuneration policy is available from the Companys company secretary, on request see contact details on page 60 : and the AIFM remuneration paid for the year to 31 December 2015 is set out below.
AIFM Remuneration The AIFM remuneration paid is based on the latest financial year of the AIFM, which was to 31 December 2015.
IFML does not employ any staff directly.
All staff involved in the AIF related activities of IFML are employed and paid by Invesco UK Limited or other entities in the Invesco Limited Group.
Remuneration for staff involved in AIF related activities has been apportioned based on the average assets under management of 3,759 million for the nine AIFs managed by IFML during the reporting period.
The aggregate total remuneration apportioned to IFMLs AIF related activities for performance year 2015 is 6,899,615, of which 3,634,486 is fixed remuneration and 3,265,129 is variable remuneration.
The number of beneficiaries is 40.
IFML has identified individuals considered to have a material impact on the risk profile of IFML or the AIFs it manages AIFMD Code Staff, including Board members of IFML, senior management, heads of control functions and other risk takers whose professional activities can exert material influence on IFMLs risk profile or on an AIF it manages.
The aggregate total remuneration paid to the AIFMD Code Staff of IFML for AIF related activities is 1,257,880 of which 368,220 is paid to senior management and 889,660 is paid to other AIFMD Code Staff.
The total remuneration for AIFMD Code Staff excludes remuneration for staff employed by delegates.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 63 The Manager of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is Invesco Fund Managers Limited.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with assets under management of $783.7 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Assets under Management as at 30 April 2016.
INVESTMENT COMPANIES MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities and fixed interest securities The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc a diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and government bonds.
The Company seeks to balance the Invests primarily in UK securities with the long-term objective attraction of high-yield securities with the need for protection of of achieving: capital and to manage volatility.
The Company uses repo 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share in excess of financing to enhance returns.
the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity 2. growth in dividends per share in excess of the rate of UK Portfolio inflation.
Aims to generate income from a variety of fixed income The Company has a debenture stock in issue and, in addition, instruments combined with a high degree of security.
Income may use bank borrowings.
will reduce during periods of very low interest rates.
City Merchants High Yield Trust Limited Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Portfolio A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the UK income instruments combined.
The Company may use bank equity market.
The portfolio may use bank borrowings.
Keystone Investment Trust plc Invesco Income Growth Trust plc Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of Aims to produce income and capital growth superior to that capital mainly from UK investments.
The Company has two of the UK stock market and dividends paid quarterly that, over debenture stocks in issue.
time, grow at above the rate of inflation.
The Company may Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc use bank borrowings.
Aims to generate capital growth and real growth in dividends Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income Limited over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to listed mainly in the UK and fixed interest markets.
The provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst Company has secured loan stock in issue and, in addition, seeking to maximise total return through investing, primarily in may use bank borrowings.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys of small to medium sized UK quoted companies.
The shareholders primarily by investment in a broad cross-section Company may use bank borrowings.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to provide an attractive and growing level of income Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in return and capital appreciation over the long term, excess of the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index, total return, in predominantly through investment in a diversified portfolio of sterling terms.
The Company may use bank borrowings.
Investing for Total Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Balanced Risk Portfolio Aims to provide shareholders with an attractive total return in The portfolio is constructed so as to balance risk, is long-only, using transparently-priced exchange-traded futures contracts differing economic and inflationary environments and with low correlation to equity and bond market indices by gaining and other derivative instruments to gain such exposure and to provide leverage.
exposure to three asset classes: debt securities, equities and commodities.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of four investment policies and objectives, each UK Equity Portfolio intended to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from Global Equity Income Portfolio segregated portfolios, with the ability to switch between Managed Liquidity Portfolio them, four times a year, free from capital gains tax liability.
Balanced Risk Portfolio Dividends are paid quarterly, apart from Balanced Risk which will not normally pay dividends.
Please contact our Client Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
co. uk investmenttrusts Linkway Financial Printers Typeset & Printed in London UK 16561
