THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Managers Website are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Information relating to the Company can be found on the Companys section of the Savings Plan and ISA Managers website, which is located at www.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is a member of the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings The contents of websites referred to in this Scheme and the Invesco Perpetual Investment document, or accessible from links within those Trust ISA.
Shares in this Company can be websites, are not incorporated in to, nor do they purchased and sold via these two schemes.
form part of this annual financial report.
Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Financial Calendar Scheme In addition, the Company publishes information The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings according to the following calendar: Scheme allows an investor to make monthly purchases from as little as 20 per month or Announcements through lump sum investments of 500 or Annual financial report May June above in the shares of the Company in a Half-yearly financial report November straightforward and low cost way.
Dividend Payable Timetable 1st interim November Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA 2nd interim February The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA allows 3rd interim May investments up to the ISA limit.
For the tax year Final July 2016 17 this is 15,240.
Investors can also Debenture Stock choose to make lump sum investments from Interest payable on September and 500, or regular investments from as little as 3 7 4% 2022 March 20 per month.
Annual General Meeting July For full details of these Invesco Perpetual Year End 31 March investment schemes contact Invesco Perpetuals Client Services Team free on Location of Annual General Meeting 0800 085 8677.
The one hundred and twenty seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Net Asset Value NAV Publication the Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, The NAV of the Companys ordinary shares is Princes Street, Edinburgh on14 July 2016 at calculated by the Manager on a daily basis and is 11.00 am.
notified to the Stock Exchange on the next business day.
It is published daily in the The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, will make a newspapers detailed below.
presentation about the Company after the AGM.
Share Price Listings The price of your shares can be found in the Financial Times, Daily Telegraph, The Times and The Scotsman.
In addition, share price information can be found using the EDIN ticker code and on the Companys section of the Managers website of www.
