Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group and Company financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the currently serving Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 32 to 34 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The Group and Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: and The Directors Report contained in this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Lindsley Ruth David Egan Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information Where this document contains forward-looking statements, these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
These statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
The Group cautions investors that a number of factors, including matters referred to in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 25 and 26 of this Annual Report.
