Objective and Investment Policy Electra has been quoted on the London Stock Exchange since 1976.
Electra is managed as an HM Revenue and Customs approved investment trust and invests primarily in the private equity mid-market.
The business and affairs of Electra are managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Epiris, an independent private equity fund manager with over 25 years experience in the mid-market.
Electras objective is to achieve a rate of return on equity of between 10-15% per year over the long-term by investing in a portfolio of private equity assets.
Epiris aims to achieve this target rate of return on behalf of Electra by utilising a flexible investment strategy and: exploiting a track record of successful private equity investment: utilising the proven skills of its management team with a strong record of deal flow generation and long-term presence in the private equity market: targeting private equity opportunities including direct investment, fund investments and secondary buyouts of portfolios and funds so that the perceived risks associated with such investments are justified by expected returns: investing in a number of value creating transactions with a balanced risk profile across a broad range of investment sectors through a variety of financial instruments: and actively managing its capital position and levels of gearing in light of prevailing economic conditions.
The investment focus is principally on Western Europe, with the majority of investments made in the United Kingdom where Epiris has historically been most active.
There is an emphasis on areas where Epiris has specific knowledge and expertise.
In circumstances where Epiris feels that there is merit in gaining exposure to countries and sectors outside its network and expertise, consideration is given to investing in specific funds managed by third parties or co-investing with private equity managers with whom it has developed a relationship.
Epiris attempts to mitigate risk through portfolio diversification.
Investments will therefore be made across a broad range of sectors and industries.
At the time of investment, not more than 15% of Electras total assets will typically be invested in any single investment.
If Electra acquires a portfolio of companies in a single transaction, this limitation shall be applied individually to each of the underlying companies purchased and not to the portfolio as a whole.
Electra has a policy to maintain total gearing below 40% of its total assets.
Electra has a policy to return to shareholders a targeted 3% of NAV per annum, by way of cash dividend or share buybacks.
Any shares bought back under this policy will be cancelled.
116 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016
