Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD Article 23 Supplemental Disclosure As Electra Private Equity Plc the Company or Electra and its alternative investment fund manager, Epiris Managers LLP the AIFM or the Manager are each domiciled in the United Kingdom, the FCA Handbook rules require that, among other things, the AIFM makes available the following information to existing shareholders of Electra, in order to supplement the information provided to them before they invested, pursuant to Article 23 of Directive 2011 61 EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on Alternative Investment Fund Managers and its implementing measures the AIFMD and to notify them of any material change to information previously provided.
In cases where the AIFM has determined that the requisite information is already set forth in the Annual Report or in any other source document which existing shareholders have access to or may request, this supplemental disclosure contains information with respect to the relevant source materials.
In cases where the AIFM has determined that the requisite information has not been provided to existing shareholders, this supplemental contains additional disclosure items.
Investment Policy, Leverage and Liquidity AIFMD 23 1 a b h The investment strategy and objective of Electra, the types of asset it may invest in and the investment techniques it may employ, associated risks and any investment restrictions are laid out in the Objective and Investment Policy, Strategic Report and The Managers Report sections of the Companys 30 September 2016 Annual Report.
For information about the circumstances in which the Company may use leverage, the types of sources permitted and the associated risks and any restrictions on the use of leverage and any collateral and asset re-use arrangements, shareholders are directed to the disclosures contained in the Objective and Investment Policy and the Strategic Report of the Companys 30 September 2016 Annual Report as well as specific AIFMD related disclosures further below.
Under the UK Listing Authority listing rules to which the Company is subject it needs the prior approval of its shareholders to make a material change to its Investment Policy.
Since the Company is closed-ended without redemption rights, liquidity risk management is limited to the liquidity required to meet the Companys obligations in relation to its financing arrangements and on its ability to meet calls on unfunded liabilities to third party funds and other investments.
The Manager utilises various risk assessment methods to measure the risk of portfolio illiquidity to meet the Companys obligations.
This measurement enables the provision of management information to the Manager and the Board of the Company to enable these risks to be monitored and managed.
Legal Relationship with Investors AIFMD 23 1 c The Company is a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
The constitutional document of the Company is its articles of association Articles which may only be amended by way of a special resolution of its shareholders.
Upon the purchase of shares, an investor becomes a shareholder of the Company.
A shareholders liability to the Company will be limited to the amount uncalled on their shares.
The Company has one class of share, namely ordinary shares, with standard rights as to voting, dividends and payment on winding-up and no special rights and obligations attaching to them.
Transfers to US persons are restricted but otherwise, there are no material restrictions on transfers of shares.
No redemption rights attach to the ordinary shares in the Company.
As the Company is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, it may not be possible for a shareholder located outside that jurisdiction to effect service of process within the local jurisdiction in which that shareholder resides upon the Company.
All or a substantial portion of the assets of the Company may be located outside a local jurisdiction in which a shareholder resides and as a result, it may not be possible to satisfy a judgement against the Company in such local jurisdiction or to enforce a judgement obtained in the local jurisdictions courts against the Company.
152 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 AIFM and its Delegates AIFMD 23 1 d, e and f The Manager is a limited liability partnership with its registered office at Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB and which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FRN 455358.
It has been appointed by the Company to manage the Company under a management agreement dated 12 October 2006 as amended on 11 July 2014 to facilitate compliance with AIFMD regulations and as further amended to facilitate Electras Review of Capital Structure, Distribution Policy and Management Fees on 10 February 2015 the Management Agreement.
On 26 May 2016, the Board of the Company announced an interim update on the review of the Companys investment strategy and policy and its structure which was announced on 25 January 2016 with the objective of maximising long-term shareholder value the Review.
As part of this, the Board announced that, in order to provide the Board with the flexibility to put in place any potential changes as an outcome of the Review without any undue delay, it had served notice of termination of the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement MIG and the related limited partnership agreement under which management of the Companys operations and investments is wholly outsourced to the Manager.
The Board stated that it continued to explore a range of options including retaining the services of the Manager as investment manager under a mutually acceptable agreement.
The MIG provides for a notice period of 12 months the Notice Period during which time the Manager has continued to provide the same administrative and investment management services as previously, although there have been some constraints on the rate of new investments.
On 14 October 2016, the Board announced that termination of the contracts with the Manager would become effective on 31 May 2017 and that the Board would return control of all executive and investment functions to the Board with the migration to a corporate structure and related consolidated financial reporting.
The Manager is responsible for portfolio management and risk management and monitoring of the assets of the Company and has full discretionary authority over the acquisition and disposition of the Companys assets, with power to give guarantees and undertake other transactions on behalf of the Company subject to the provisions of the Management Agreement.
The Manager is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the AIFMD.
The Managers duties under the Management Agreement are owed to the Company as a whole rather than directly to the shareholders, whether individually or in groups.
The Board of Electra is responsible under the Management Agreement for representing the Company in its dealings with the Manager.
In accordance with the Management Agreement, the liability of the Manager and any officer, partner or employee of them or any of their Associates or Nominated Director Indemnified Persons is limited and subject to certain limitations they are entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company.
The Manager maintains appropriate additional own funds to meet its obligations under AIFMD, including in relation to professional indemnity risks.
In addition the Manager holds professional indemnity insurance.
The Manager has not delegated the performance of any of its functions.
Depositary and its Delegates AIFMD 23 1 d and f IPES Depositary UK Limited the Depositary has been appointed as the Depositary of the Company under a Depositary Agreement agreed in accordance with AIFMD requirements.
The Depositary is a company incorporated in England registered number 08749704 whose registered office is at 9th Floor, No 1 Minster Court, Mincing Lane, London EC3R 7AA.
It is authorised to act as a Depositary by the FCA FRN 610203.
The Depositary is responsible for safekeeping of the Companys investments, including holding in custody those investments which are required to be held in custody and verifying ownership on the basis of evidence provided by the AIFM and keeping records of the Companys other investments, and for cash monitoring.
The Depositarys duties under the Depositary Agreement are owed to the Company as a whole and not directly to shareholders, whether individually or in groups.
Most of the investments of the Company are not of a kind required to be held in custody by the Depositary.
The Depositary has appointed a custodian, RBC Investor Services Trust, in respect of the holding of custody assets belonging to the Company.
The Depositary has contractually discharged itself of liability in respect of the assets held by RBC Investor Services Trust.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 153 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Independent Auditors AIFMD 23 1 d The independent auditors of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2016 were  LLP.
During the year to 30 September 2016 the Company put the audit contract out to tender and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board agreed to appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Companys accounts with effect from the audit of the Companys accounts for the year ending 30 September 2017, subject to approval by the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 March 2017.
The Auditors duties are owed to the Company as a whole.
They have a statutory responsibility to report to the members of the Company as a whole in relation to the truth and fairness of the Companys state of affairs and profit or loss.
Valuation AIFMD 23 1 g The Manager values the assets of the Company in accordance with the provisions set out in the Principles of Valuation of Investments as set out on pages 103 to 104 of the Notes to the Financial Statements in the 30 September 2016 Annual Report of the Company.
The Valuations Committee of the Company adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process as set out on page 142 of the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
Fees and Expenses AIFMD 23 1 i Under the terms of the Management Agreement with the Company, the Managers annual priority profit share is set at 1.5% per annum on the gross value of the Companys investment portfolio, except that there is no fee payable on cash and the annual priority profit share on Non-Core Listed and Primary Fund Investments is 1% per annum.
The terms of the Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager are that the agreement may be terminated by either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
Since the Company has terminated the Management Agreement, the Manager is entitled to receive additional compensation equivalent to 12 months priority profit share determined by reference to the previous 12 months priority profit share.
As part of the Board Review which was announced in February 2015, it was agreed that by way of a transitional arrangement, on 12 months notice being given up to and including 31 May 2017, compensation payable to the Manager under the termination provisions would be calculated on the basis of the fee structure existing prior to 1 April 2015.
These arrangements will apply up to the date of termination at 31 May 2017.
In addition the Company operates carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of the Manager and details of these schemes are contained in Notes 21 and 22 of the Notes to the Financial Statements in the 30 September 2016 Annual Report of the Company.
The finance costs in respect of the Companys multi-currency revolving credit facility, Convertible Bond costs and Zero Dividend Preference Share costs are contained in Note 7 of the Notes to the Financial Statements in the 30 September 2016 Annual Report of the Company.
In addition the Company incurs costs in the form of depositary fees, custodian fees, bank fees and charges, marketing fees, auditors fees, lawyers fees and other fees.
Given the nature of all these fees and expenses it is not possible to provide a maximum fee payable.
Fair Treatment of Investors and Preferential Treatment AIFMD 23 1 j No preferential rights have been granted to any existing shareholder.
The Manager and the Board of the Company are committed to ensuring that all shareholders are treated fairly and in accordance with UK Company Law.
They have not and will not enter into any arrangement with one shareholder which could result in any overall material disadvantage to the other shareholders.
Issue and Redemption of Shareholder Interests in the Company AIFMD 23 1 l The Fund is closed-ended and does not provide for redemption or repurchase of the interests of ordinary shareholders at their request.
154 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Reporting and Performance AIFMD 23 1 k, 23 1 m and 23 1 n The historic performance of the Company, to the extent available, has been disclosed to shareholders in the Companys Annual Reports, the latest of which covers the year to 30 September 2016 and which will be sent to shareholders.
The latest NAV of the Company is published in the latest Annual or Half Yearly report.
Prime Broker AIFMD 23 1 o The Company does not have a prime broker.
Method of Making Ongoing Periodic Disclosures AIFMD 23 1 p, 23 4, 23 5 Information about the Companys risk profile and risk management, total leverage and any material change to the arrangements for managing the Companys liquidity, the proportion of assets if any subject to special arrangements arising from liquidity, the maximum permitted leverage or the grant of rights of re-use of collateral or guarantees in relation to leverage will be provided in the Companys Annual Reports.
Risk Profile and Risk Management AIFMD 23 4 c The appointment of the Manager as the AIFM of the Company under the AIFMD means that it is responsible for risk management and the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks facing the Company in accordance with the requirements of the AIFMD.
The Board of the Company keeps the Managers performance of these responsibilities under review as part of its overall responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal controls.
The principal risks of the Company are set out in the Strategic Report and in Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The Managers risk management system incorporates regular review of these risks and the establishment of appropriate risk limits and internal control processes to mitigate the risks.
The sensitivity of the Company to relevant risks is further detailed in Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The risk limits currently put in place for the Company by the Manager are in relation to the parameters for diversity of investment set out in the Objective and Investment Policy, for Credit Risk set out in Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements and the limits on the Companys leverage set out below.
These risk limits have not been exceeded in the year ended 30 September 2016 and the Manager does not currently consider it likely they will be exceeded.
Restrictions on the Use of Leverage and Maximum Leverage AIFMD 23 5 As specified in the Objective and Investment Policy in the Companys 30 September 2016 Annual Report, the Company has a policy to maintain total gearing below 40% of its total assets and the Manager oversees the use of leverage to ensure that the use of borrowing and derivatives is consistent with this requirement.
The Company does not have any asset re-use arrangements in relation to collateral and has not granted any guarantees.
In the course of the year ended 30 September 2016 the Companys multi-currency revolving credit facility was cancelled and the Company exercised its right to a mandatory conversion of all the outstanding Convertible Bonds in issue into new ordinary shares of the Company.
In addition on 12 August 2016 a general meeting of Electra Private Equity Investments Plc was held at which a special resolution was passed to wind up Electra Private Equity Investments Plc voluntarily.
On 19 August 2016 the Final Capital Entitlement was paid in full to those ZDP Shareholders on the ZDP Share register at 6.00pm on 11 August 2016.
The ZDP Shares were cancelled from trading on the London Stock Exchange on 19 August 2016.
Under AIFMD the Company is required to calculate leverage under the two methodologies specified by the Directive, the Gross Method and the Commitment Method, the difference being that the Commitment Method allows certain exposures to be offset or netted.
Leverage is calculated using gross assets, with various adjustments, divided by net assets.
The Manager has currently set a limit of 230% on the use of leverage based on the Gross Method and a limit of 230% on the use of leverage based on the Commitment Method which the Manager considers consistent with the gearing limit set out in the Objective and Investment Policy as at 30 September 2016.
The Companys leverage calculated at 30 September 2016 under the methods stipulated by AIFMD was 86% under the Gross Method and 118% under the Commitment Method.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 155 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Photobox Group Personalised products and gifts 156 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016
