Directors report continued himself from reading the relevant papers and absent himself from Events after the balance sheet date participating in relevant discussions.
No other Directors were in receipt On 10 February 2017 the Group announced its intention to acquire of a con ict authorisation from the Board during the year.
SummitReheis, a global leader in the fast growing anti-perspirant actives market with operations in the US, Europe and Asia, for Other information consideration of $360 million.
Details of the proposed acquisition Information about financial risk management and exposure to and its nancing are included in note 30 to the Consolidated financial market risks are set out in note 21 to the financial financial statements.
By order of the Board Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held on Tuesday 25 April 2017.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document sent toshareholders.
Wai Wong Company Secretary 1 March 2017 Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a andthe financial statements in accordance with applicable law going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless the corporate and financial information included on the Companys they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the affairs of the Company and of the pro t or loss of the Company for preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ that period.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors Responsibility statement are required to: We con rm that to the best of our knowledge: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the consistently.
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation and prudent.
State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been The Strategic report includes a fair review of the development followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and and performance of the business and the position of the explained in the financial statements.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will and uncertainties that they face.
The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the In preparing the Group financial statements, International information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: performance, business model and strategy.
Properly select and apply accounting policies.
By order of the Board Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c Ralph Hewins requirements in IFRSs are insuf cient to enable users to CFO understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 1 March 2017 and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
62 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016
