FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU in accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 adopted IFRS and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its individual company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 : these are presented on pages 134 to 145.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are stated at fair value and retirement benefit obligations which are valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The preparation of financial statements that conform with adopted IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
For the purposes of these financial statements Essentra or the Group means Essentra plc the Company and its subsidiaries.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
On 25 August 2016, Essentra entered into a sale and purchase agreement with Filtration Group to dispose of the Groups entire operations in Porous Technologies.
The transaction is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2017.
The results of Porous Technologies are presented as results from a discontinued operation in the consolidated income statement, and the comparative information has been re-presented accordingly.
The assets and liabilities of Porous Technologies have also been presented as held for sale on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2016.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements are detailed below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
Information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 15 to 16.
In addition, note 18 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances and borrowings are detailed in note 21.
The Directors have prepared plans and forecasts for a period of at least twelve months from the date of signing these financial statements.
Based on these, and taking into consideration the risks detailed in note 18, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code.
Changes in accounting policies In the current financial year, Essentra adopted the following pronouncements: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation: These amendments clarify that the ratio of revenue generated to total revenue expected to be generated cannot be used to depreciate PPE and can only be used to amortise intangibles in very limited circumstances Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative: These amendments clarify that an entity should use professional judgement in determining what information should be disclosed in the financial statements, and the location and order of presentation in financial disclosures Amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Interests in Joint Operations 93 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES A.
Basis of preparation continued The adoption of these amendments did not have an impact on the Group in relation to measurement, recognition and presentation.
Other than these, the accounting policies and presentation in this set of financial statements are consistent with those applied in the prior years.
The following standards or interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15, IFRS 9 and IFRS 16, and does not currently expect the adoption of the other standards or interpretations to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers, and provides a more structured approach to measurement and recognition of revenue.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting, and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
IFRS 16 Leases eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and introduces a single lessee accounting model under which a lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value, and depreciation of lease assets separately from interest on lease liabilities in the income statement.
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative require disclosure of information about changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including cash flows and non-cash changes.
As Essentra provides disclosure on reconciliation of individual elements of net debt, these amendments are not expected to have a significant impact.
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses clarify how to account for deferred tax assets related to debt instruments measured at fair value.
Narrow-scope amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions provide guidance on accounting for the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled sharebased payments, share-based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations and modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment that changes the classification of the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Considerations addresses the exchange rates to be used for advance consideration paid or received in a foreign currency.
Amendments to IAS 40 Transfer of Investment Property clarify the accounting requirements on transfers to or from investment property.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Essentra.
Control exists when Essentra is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM C. Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling functional currency of the parent company.
i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting criteria apply see policy for financial instruments.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening balances of overseas entities are taken to other comprehensive income, as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are effective.
Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 are included in retained earnings.
D. Financial instruments In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, interest bearing loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities excluding derivatives are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge accounting relationship.
See note 14 for separate disclosure of hedge types.
Derivatives are measured initially at fair value.
Subsequent measurement in the financial statements depends on the classification of the derivative as follows: i Fair value hedges Where a derivative is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a monetary asset or liability, any gain or loss on the derivative is recognised in the income statement.
ii Cash flow hedges Where a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, the change in fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that it is effective and any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Where the underlying transaction results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial carrying value of the asset.
iii Hedges of net investment in foreign operations The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is deemed effective is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
E. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Previously revalued properties were treated as being held at deemed cost upon transition to adopted IFRS.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or other assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES E. Property, plant and equipment continued Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives on a straight line basis at the following annual rates: Freehold land Not depreciated Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 720% Fixtures, fittings and equipment 1033% The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
F. Leases Rentals associated with operating leases are expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are amortised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
G. Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
For acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the assets given in consideration and the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
Since 1 January 2010, the Group has expensed costs attributable to acquisitions in the income statement.
Given their one-off nature, these costs are generally presented within exceptional operating items.
ii Research and development Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
iii Other intangible assets An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value to the extent it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets principally relate to customer relationships, which are valued using discounted cash flows based on historical customer attrition rates, and developed technology, which is valued using an income approach.
The cost of intangible assets is amortised through the income statement on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic life.
Other intangible assets which are not acquired through a business combination non-acquired intangible assets are recognised at cost to the extent it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably, and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic life.
H. Impairment All assets are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill and intangible assets are tested annually.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, and is recognised in the income statement.
Value in use is estimated based on future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value.
For work-in-progress and finished goods, cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour cost and overheads.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed term investments whose maturities are three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand form an integral part of Essentras cash management and are included as part of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
K. Loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially measured at cost which is equal to fair value at inception and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in the income statement over the term of the borrowings.
L. Trade and other receivables The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows less impairment losses.
M. Trade and other payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
N. Catalogue costs The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues are expensed to the income statement when access is received to those goods.
Income tax Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled, using the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet dates.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
P. Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net of expected warranty claims when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES P. Revenue continued A significant proportion of the Groups businesses sell goods on an ex-works basis, where the Group as a seller makes its goods ready for collection at its premises on an agreed upon sales date and the buyer incurs all transportation and handling costs and bears the risks for bringing the goods to their chosen destination.
The Group operates non ex-works terms with customers in some of its businesses, and in these businesses, revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
These terms include some consignment stock agreements, where revenue is recognised when the customer removes the goods from consignment stock.
Finance income and expense Finance income and expense is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
R. Segment reporting A segment is identified on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Group Management Committee refer to Corporate Governance Report in order to allocate resources to the segment and assess its performance.
S. Pensions i Defined contribution schemes Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit schemes The significant pension schemes in Europe and the US have been accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of Essentras obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Net interest on defined benefit assets is presented within finance income, and net interest on defined benefit liabilities is presented within finance expense.
Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost including curtailments and gains and losses on settlement.
The value of a net pension asset is limited to the amount that may be recovered either through reduced contributions or agreed refunds from the scheme.
T. Share-based payments Essentra operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans.
A charge is made in the income statement based on the fair value of option awards using the Monte Carlo or binomial valuation models and relevant quoted share price information with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant and vesting date of the options.
The amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest with the exception of options that fail to vest because market conditions are not met.
U. One-off items in the consolidated income statement The exceptional operating items below are separated from other items by virtue of their size and incidence considered for each operating segment.
They are shown as a separate line item within operating profit on the face of the income statement in order for the reader to obtain a clearer understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance.
These items exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets which are also presented separately in the income statement.
i Transaction costs relating to acquisitions and disposals of businesses In 2016 and 2015, Essentra incurred one-off costs such as professional fees as a result of acquisitions including transactions that did not complete in 2015 refer to note 23.
In addition, costs incurred in the current year in relation to the disposal of Porous Technologies which are presented as discontinued operations are also included in this category refer to note 23.
98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM U. One-off items in the consolidated income statement continued ii Acquisition integration and restructuring costs Costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses and restructuring associated with acquisitions.
iii Other exceptional items In 2016, this represented impairment loss on certain assets of the Health & Personal Care Packaging strategic business unit, further costs arising from the closure of the Filters site in Jarrow, offset by the net release of property provisions on disposal of properties, and an adjustment on contingent deferred considerations on a prior acquisition.
In 2015, this represented the costs associated with the closure of the Filters site in Jarrow, offset by a release in respect of warranty obligations for the disposal of Globalpack, an entity disposed of in 2007, and an adjustment on contingent deferred considerations on prior acquisitions.
V. Investment in own shares The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share option plans are treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings.
The cost of shares held directly treasury shares are also deducted from retained earnings.
W. Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate can be made of the outflow of resources that will be required to settle the obligation.
The outflow is the present value of managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
Government grants Government grants are recognised when it is reasonable to expect that the grants will be received and that all related conditions will be met, usually on submission of a valid claim for payment.
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are included within the carrying amount of the related property, plant and equipment, and are released to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets.
Grants of a revenue nature are credited to profit or loss so as to match them with the expenditure to which they relate.
Net debt Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest bearing loans and borrowings.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company final dividend or paid interim dividend.
Assets and disposal groups held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, are classified as held-for-sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use.
Such assets, or disposal groups, are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale and subsequent gains and losses on remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss.
A disposal group qualifies as discontinued operation if it is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and: Represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or Is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations in the income statement.
