Strategic Report Governance Financials Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
General information esure Group plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
Its registered office is The Observatory, Reigate, Surrey, RH2 0SG.
The nature of the Groups operations is the writing of general insurance for private cars and homes.
The Companys principal activity is that of a holding company.
All of the Companys subsidiaries are located in the United Kingdom, except for esure S. L. U. which is incorporated in Spain.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements present the esure Group plc group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, comprising the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows and related notes, as well as the comparatives.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
At a General Meeting on 1 November 2016, the Companys shareholders approved the demerger of Gocompare.
com and on 3 November 2016 the demerger was completed.
Under IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRS 5 there is no impact on the prior year financial statements as a result of this demerger other than a change in the presentation of the results and the cash flows of the Gocompare.
com business to discontinued operations.
There is no impact on the prior year statement of financial position.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
As detailed in the Strategic Report on page 24, the Directors have assessed the Groups prospects and viability for the three year period to 31 December 2019.
Based on this robust assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months.
These consolidated financial statements have been presented in Sterling and rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
Throughout these consolidated financial statements any amounts which are less than 0.05m are shown by 0.0, whereas a dash - represents that no balance exists.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial assets and land and buildings that are measured at fair value at the reporting date.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
New and amended accounting standards adopted with no significant impact on the Group The Group has applied the following standards and amendments for the first time for its annual reporting period commencing 1 January 2016: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current or prior periods.
New and amended accounting standards that have been issued but are not yet effective The following standards have been issued and are effective for accounting periods ending on or after 31 December 2016 and are expected to have an impact on the Group financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The new standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard includes requirements for recognition and measurement, impairment, derecognition of financial instruments and general hedge accounting.
The Groups current analysis is that this will not have a material impact on our results with the key changes for the Group being around terminology.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The new standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard specifies how and when an IFRS reporter will recognise revenue as well as requiring such entities to provide users of financial statements with more informative, relevant disclosures.
The standard provides a single, principles based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
The Groups current analysis is that this will not have a material impact on our results.
IFRS 16 Leases The new standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
This is in contrast to the current standard which differentiates between operating and finance leases.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the different possible transitional approaches.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 81 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 2.
Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiary companies are consolidated using the acquisition method.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtained control, and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases.
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, any intra-group balances, unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group trading are eliminated.
Where accounting policies used in individual financial statements of a subsidiary company differ from Group policies, adjustments are made to bring these policies in line with Group policies.
Joint ventures Prior to the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary shares of Gocompare on 31 March 2015, the Groups interest in Gocompare was classified under IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements as a joint venture.
A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group recognises the cost of the investments which, together with the Groups share of the joint ventures post-acquisition changes to shareholders funds, is included in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income is stated after appropriate adjustments to align the accounting policies of the joint venture with those of the Group.
In addition, adjustments are made for the amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets recognised on acquisition and to eliminate unrealised profits relating to commission charged to esure Group plc by the joint venture.
Carrying values are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indications exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying value.
Impairment losses are recognised through the income statement.
Impairment may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve and credited through the income statement.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of non-controlling interest in the acquiree, plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree.
Any gain arising from the difference between the fair value of the Groups pre-existing equity interest and its carrying value is recorded as a deemed disposal gain in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Goodwill is recognised at the date of acquisition as the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any deferred tax asset or liability recognised as part of the business combination according to the requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Where the excess is negative a gain is recognised in the income statement at the date of acquisition.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition date.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed in the income statement when incurred.
Revenue Gross written premiums Gross written premiums, being the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered into during the accounting period, excluding taxes or duties based on premiums, are recognised on the date which the policy commences.
Gross written premiums include any adjustments arising in the accounting period for premiums receivable in respect of business written in prior accounting periods.
Unearned premiums The proportion of gross written premiums that are to be earned in the accounting period after the balance sheet date are deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
Premiums earned are computed separately for each insurance contract and are recognised as revenue using the daily pro rata method, which is consistent with the incidence of risk assumed over the coverage period of the related policy.
Reinsurance premiums ceded Reinsurance premiums are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insured contracts issued by the Group and the specific terms of each reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpired portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
Unearned reinsurance premiums ceded Unearned reinsurance premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting date.
Unearned reinsurance premiums are deferred over the term of the underlying direct insurance policies for risks-attaching contracts and over the term of the reinsurance contract for losses-occurring contracts.
82 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 2.
Accounting policies continued Revenue Other income Other income comprises sales of non-underwritten additional insurance products to Motor and Home insurance customers: policy administration fees: fees generated from the appointment of firms used during the claims process and car hire suppliers.
Revenue earned on the sale of additional services includes both brokerage fees and commission, where the Group has a continuing relationship with the customer, and introducer fees where the Group does not have a continuing relationship with the customer.
Revenue relating to insurance broking is brought into account when the policy placement has been completed and confirmed.
Where the Group has an obligation to provide future services to the customer an element of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the cost of fulfilling the associated contractual obligation plus a reasonable profit margin.
Deferred revenue is credited to the income statement over the period matching the Groups obligations to provide those services.
Where the Group has no contractual obligation to provide future services, the revenue is recognised immediately.
In certain circumstances, where the revenue cannot be reliably measured at the contract or policy inception date, broking fees and commission are recognised on a periodic basis when the consideration becomes due.
Rebates of commissions and fees relating to the return of premiums for additional insurance products and services are recognised at the point the return is due.
Administration fees and referral fees from credit hire are recognised in the period in which the related services are provided.
Investment income and instalment interest Investment income comprises interest and dividend income and net gains both realised and unrealised on financial assets classified at fair value through profit or loss, including derivative financial instruments.
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
For listed securities, this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend.
Interest income including interest received from policyholders who pay by instalment on assets classified as loans and receivables or as available for sale is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instruments initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
Investment income also includes rental income.
Rental income represents income arising from operating leases and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Government grants Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as other income as fees for additional services over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as deferred income and released to the income statement in equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset.
Claims and expenses recognition Gross claims incurred and claims handling expenses Gross claims include all claims incurred during the year, whether reported or not, less recoveries, together with related internal and external handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims, and any adjustment to claims outstanding from previous years.
Reinsurance claims Reinsurance claims are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insurance contracts issued by the Group and the specific terms of the reinsurance contract.
Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest paid which is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated by using the effective interest rate method.
Accrued interest is included within the carrying value of the interest bearing financial liability.
Taxation Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Current tax assets and liabilities also include adjustments in respect of tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 83 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 2.
Accounting policies continued Taxation continued Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income is recognised in equity or other comprehensive income and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
It is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is recovered, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to a business combination e. g. fair value adjustments for brands and customer relationships in which case the deferred tax is included as part of the assets and liabilities assumed for the purposes of calculating goodwill.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is also recognised outside the income statement, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate at the reporting date.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in profit or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is recognised on business combinations and the acquisition of joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on business combinations is presented in intangible assets.
For joint ventures, goodwill is not separately presented but is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Negative goodwill is recognised in the Group income statement at the date of acquisition.
Positive goodwill is not amortised.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of the cash generating unit or units to which the goodwill is allocated exceeds its recoverable amount.
A recognised impairment loss is not reversed.
Goodwill attributed to an investment in a joint venture accounted under the equity method is not tested for impairment separately.
The entire carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment only if there is objective evidence of impairment.
A recognised impairment loss may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve.
Software Purchased software is recognised as an intangible asset, with the carrying value being reviewed at every reporting date for evidence of impairment and the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed.
Amortisation of software begins when it is available for use, i. e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
The cost of purchased software is amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the intangible asset.
This has been set between two and seven years.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Costs associated with the development of software for internal use are capitalised only if the software is technically feasible for sale or use on completion and the Group has both the intent and sufficient resources to complete the development.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if the cost of the asset can be reliably measured, will generate future economic benefits and there is an ability to use or sell the asset.
The cost of internally generated software is amortised over the expected useful life of the intangible asset on a straightline basis.
The expected useful life is between three and five years.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives.
For intangible assets that are recognised as part of business combinations, the Group makes an assessment of the fair value of the identified intangible assets acquired in the business combination.
Intangible assets other than those arising as part of business combinations are recognised as long as it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The Group holds no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill.
The carrying value of intangible assets with finite useful lives is reviewed at every reporting date for evidence of impairment with the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed and credited through the income statement.
84 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 2.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets continued The economic lives and amortisation methods of acquired intangible assets, other than software, are as follows: Insurer customer relationships 5 to 6 years, based on the pattern of consumption of the benefits Gocompare.
com customer relationships 2 years, on a straight-line basis Insurer brands 8 to 10 years, on a straight-line basis Gocompare.
com brand 5 years, on a straight-line basis Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprises land and buildings occupied by the Group and fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware.
Land and buildings are stated at their revalued amount, which is the fair value, less subsequent depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at cost less depreciation and accumulated impairment.
Replacement or major inspection costs are capitalised when incurred if it is possible that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use, i. e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to write off the cost less residual values of the assets over their economic lives, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
The economic lives are as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment between 3 and 8 years Freehold buildings 100 years The assets residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no further future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year in which the asset is derecognised.
Impairment and revaluation of property, plant and equipment Carrying values are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset, less costs to sell and the assets value in use.
Revaluations of land and buildings are undertaken annually, with more frequent revaluations occurring where an assessment is made that the carrying amount may differ materially from its fair value.
Where a revaluation occurs, any accumulated depreciation at the time of the revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in other comprehensive income, unless they offset previous decreases of the same asset that have been charged to the income statement, in which case the increase is also charged to the income statement.
Similarly, decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset that have been credited to a revaluation surplus are recorded directly in other comprehensive income as a reduction in the revaluation surplus: other decreases are charged to the income statement.
Financial assets Classification Financial assets falling within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are designated classified as at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and receivables, available-for-sale AFS or held for trading.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
The Group does not classify any financial assets as held to maturity financial assets.
The Groups financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, other debtors and quoted and unquoted financial investments including derivatives.
Insurance receivables are also presented as financial assets.
Initial recognition of financial assets The Group designates on initial recognition its financial assets held for investment purposes at FVTPL or AFS with the exception of derivatives, which are classified as held for trading.
All other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
For those financial investments designated at FVTPL or AFS, this is in accordance with the Groups documented investment strategy.
Information relating to these investments is provided internally to the Groups Directors and key managers on a fair value basis.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 85 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets continued The Groups financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, plus any directly attributable transaction costs, with the exception of financial assets at FVTPL for which directly attributable transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
If the Group determines that the fair value of a financial asset on initial recognition differs from its transaction price, but the fair value measurement is not evidenced by a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, then this difference is deferred and is subsequently recognised as investment income only to the extent that there is a change in factor including time that would result in a market participant taking the data into account when setting a price for the financial asset.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at the trade date.
Subsequent measurement Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised through profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income.
AFS financial assets are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss other than impairments and foreign currency movements recognised through other comprehensive income and accumulated in the available for sale reserve.
Interest income is recognised as investment income through the statement of comprehensive income and is calculated based on amortised cost using the effective interest rate.
When available for sale financial assets are derecognised, the gain or loss accumulated in the available for sale reserve is reclassified to profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses using the effective interest rate method.
Financial assets Impairment of financial assets Objective evidence of impairment may include default on cash flows from the asset and reporting financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost The Group assesses at each reporting date whether any financial assets held at amortised cost are impaired.
Financial assets are impaired where there is evidence that one or more events occurring after the initial recognition of the asset may lead to a reduction in the estimated future cash flows arising from the asset.
Impairment losses on financial assets classified as loans and receivables are calculated as the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses and any reversals of impairments are recognised through the income statement.
Available for sale financial assets Assets classified as available for sale are initially recognised at fair value with subsequent fair value gains or losses other than impairments and foreign currency movements recognised through other comprehensive income and accumulated in the available for sale reserve.
Interest income is recognised as investment income through the income statement and is calculated based on amortised cost using the effective interest rate.
If the financial asset is sold, unrealised gains or losses recognised in other reserves will be recognised in the income statement under investment income.
Impairment losses on available for sale financial assets are recognised by reclassifying the losses accumulated in the available for sale reserve to the income statement.
The amount reclassified is the difference between the value on initial recognition and the current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement.
If the fair value of an impaired available for sale financial asset subsequently increases, then the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement to the extent that it offsets impairment losses previously recognised: otherwise, it is recognised in the available for sale reserve.
Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if, and only if, the Group has a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and it intends to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by any accounting standard or interpretation.
Reinsurance The Group cedes insurance risk in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its potential losses from accepting insurance risk.
Reinsurance assets represent amounts expected to be recovered from reinsurers in respect of claims incurred under the related insurance contracts and are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims under the related insurance contracts.
86 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 2.
Accounting policies continued Reinsurance continued Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date or more frequently when an indication of impairment arises during the reporting period.
Impairment occurs when there is objective evidence as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset that the Group may not receive all outstanding amounts due under the terms of the contract and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Any impairment loss is recorded in the income statement.
Insurance receivables Insurance receivables are recognised when contracts are entered into and are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Subsequent to initial recognition, insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses, using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of insurance receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with the impairment loss recorded in the income statement.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise all commission and other direct and indirect acquisition costs arising from the conclusion of insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the proportion of acquisition costs incurred that corresponds to the unearned premiums provision at the reporting date, and are deferred to the extent that these costs are recoverable out of future premiums.
All other acquisition costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, DAC assets are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are earned.
DAC assets are derecognised when the obligations under the related insurance contracts are either transferred or settled.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or less that are held to meet short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
Insurance contract liabilities Provision for unearned premiums The provision for unearned premiums represents the portion of premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have not yet expired at the reporting date.
The provision is recognised when the contracts are entered into and premiums are charged, and is released as earned premium in the income statement over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service provided under the contract.
Liability adequacy test At each reporting date the Group reviews its unexpired risk and performs a liability adequacy test to determine whether the estimated cost of future claims and deferred acquisition costs exceeds the provision for unearned premiums.
This calculation uses current estimates of future contractual cash flows after taking account of the investment return expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant technical provision.
If these estimates show that the carrying amount of the unearned premium is inadequate, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement and a corresponding provision for unexpired risk is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Outstanding claims provision The provision for claims outstanding comprises provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date including related claims handling expenses, whether reported or not.
Anticipated reinsurance recoveries and salvage and subrogation recoveries are disclosed separately as assets.
Insurance payables Insurance payables are recognised when due and measured initially at the fair value of the consideration received.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities falling within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as derivatives held for trading, or other financial liabilities.
The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The Groups other financial liabilities include other payables and borrowings.
Insurance payables are also presented as other financial liabilities.
Initial recognition All financial liabilities are measured initially at fair value less, in the case of other financial liabilities, directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any fees or costs that are an integral part of effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts.
The amortisation is included in finance costs in the income statement.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 87 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial liabilities continued Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification, is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives Derivatives are measured at fair value both initially and subsequent to initial recognition.
All changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are presented as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Hedge accounting The Group does not currently designate any derivatives as hedging instruments.
Share Capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other assets to holders of the financial instruments.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to a provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Employee benefits pensions The Group contributes to a defined contribution scheme for its employees.
The contributions payable to this scheme are charged to the income statement in the accounting period to which they relate.
Leases Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as the related income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned i. e. when virtually certain.
Group as a lessee operating leases Leases which do not transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased items are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments, including the effects of any lease incentives, are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the grant date at the fair value of the equity instruments excluding the effect of non-market vesting conditions but including the effect of market vesting conditions.
Fair value is not subsequently remeasured.
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity, based on the best estimate of the number of awards which will ultimately vest unconditionally with employees.
The estimate of the number of awards expected to vest excluding the effect of market vesting conditions is revised at each reporting date, with any consequential changes to the charge recognised in the income statement.
Where equity-settled share-based payments are modified, any incremental fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over the revised vesting period.
Discontinued operations Under IFRS 5, following the demerger, Gocompare.
com plc represents a discontinued operation and the post-tax profit or loss, including direct transaction costs, is presented as a single amount on the face of the statement of comprehensive income in both current and prior year.
The demerger is a distribution of non-cash assets to the owners and, as such, falls under IFRIC 17.
A fair value uplift, being the difference between the book value and the fair value at the date of distribution, of 213.6m is therefore seen on demerger, this is based on the market capitalisation at the date of demerger note 12.
88 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 3.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates: however the consolidated financial statements presented are based on conditions that existed at the balance sheet date.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Insurance contract liabilities Estimates have to be made both for the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting date and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred but not reported IBNR at the reporting date.
It can take a significant period of time before ultimate claims cost can be established with certainty for some types of claims.
The ultimate cost of outstanding claims is estimated by carrying out standard actuarial projections in line with the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries Technical Actuarial Standards.
These techniques use past claims information and development patterns of these claims to project the expected future claims cost both for notified and non-notified claims.
Similar judgements, estimates and assumptions are employed in the assessment of adequacy of provisions for unearned premium and hence whether there is a requirement for an unexpired risk provision.
Please refer to note 20 for additional details.
Segmental information The Group makes decisions on customer acquisition and retention based on contribution.
In addition to the underwriting contribution from Motor and Home, a diversified suite of additional insurance products and services provide opportunities to deliver enhanced customer contributions.
Operating segments The Group has four operating segments as described below.
These segments are also the Groups reportable segments and represent the manner in which the business is regularly reported to the Groups executive and Board of Directors.
Motor underwriting This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Groups Motor insurance underwriting activities inclusive of additional insurance products underwritten by the Group.
Home underwriting This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Groups Home insurance underwriting activities.
Non-underwritten additional services This segment represents the revenue and expenses relating to sales of third-party additional insurance products to Motor and Home insurance customers: policy administration fees: instalment interest income: fees generated from the appointment of firms used during the claims process and car hire suppliers.
Investments This segment represents income from investments to manage liabilities under insurance contracts and generate return for shareholders.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 89 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 4.
Segmental information continued Segmental revenues, expenses and other information An analysis of the Groups results by reportable segment is shown below: Year ended 31 December 2016 Nonunderwritten Continuing Motor Home additional operations underwriting underwriting services Investments Total m m m m m Gross written premiums 563.7 91.3 655.0 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 470.6 84.3 554.9 Investment income 18.1 18.1 Instalment interest income 37.6 37.6 Other income 36.9 36.9 Total income 470.6 84.3 74.5 18.1 647.5 Net incurred claims 356.4 55.6 412.0 Claims handling costs 19.5 3.6 23.1 Insurance expenses 85.8 27.5 113.3 Other operating expenses 14.5 14.5 Total expenses 461.7 86.7 14.5 562.9 Trading profit loss 8.9 2.4 60.0 18.1 84.6 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.3 Non-trading costs 0.9 Finance costs 8.7 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 72.7 Tax expense 13.2 Profit after taxation from continuing operations 59.5 Net expense ratio 22.4% 36.9% 24.6% Net loss ratio 75.7% 66.0% 74.2% Combined operating ratio 98.1% 102.9% 98.8% The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2016 was 2.08 million.
The Group generated a trading profit of 24.5m 2015: 20.2m on its discontinued operation Gocompare.
com prior to the demerger on 3 November 2016.
An analysis of the discontinued operation is presented in Note 12.
90 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 4.
Segmental information continued Segmental revenues, expenses and other information An analysis of the Groups results by reportable segment is shown below: Year ended 31 December 2015 Nonunderwritten Continuing Motor Home additional operations underwriting underwriting services Investments Total m m m m m Gross written premiums 461.0 89.3 550.3 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 413.0 82.6 495.6 Investment income 6.1 6.1 Instalment interest income 30.2 30.2 Other income 38.1 38.1 Total income 413.0 82.6 68.3 6.1 570.0 Net incurred claims 315.1 51.4 366.5 Claims handling costs 18.0 3.1 21.1 Insurance expenses 73.2 23.9 97.1 Other operating expenses 13.2 13.2 Total expenses 406.3 78.4 13.2 497.9 Trading profit 6.7 4.2 55.1 6.1 72.1 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.3 Non-trading costs 0.2 Finance costs 8.7 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 60.9 Tax expense 11.0 Profit after taxation from continuing operations 49.9 Net expense ratio 22.1% 32.7% 23.8% Net loss ratio 76.3% 62.2% 74.0% Combined operating ratio 98.4% 94.9% 97.8% The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2015 was 1.99 million.
There are no other material components of income and expense or non-cash items.
Trading profit from continuing operations, being earnings before interest, tax, non-trading expenses and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, is managements measure of the overall profitability of the Groups operating activities.
The Groups segmental trading profit, comprising Motor underwriting, Home underwriting, Non-underwritten additional services and Investments is 84.6m 2015: 72.1m.
The Groups profit in respect of continuing operations after tax is 59.5m 2015: 49.9m.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 0.9m in 2016 of which 0.4m related to share-based payments in respect of the long service and one-off awards disclosed in note 27 and 0.2m related to stamp duty and legal fees in respect of the new Manchester lease.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 0.2m in 2015, however this comprised of a charge in relation to share-based payments in respect of the long service and one-off awards disclosed in note 27 of 1.5m, which was offset by a 1.3m upwards revaluation of the Groups land and buildings.
Segmental profit drivers Motor and Home underwriting The performance of the Motor and Home underwriting segments is measured by reference to a number of performance metrics, including in-force policies and the combined operating ratio.
Profitability of segmental underwriting activities is measured by reference to the net loss ratio, being net incurred claims as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Motor underwriting net loss ratio was 75.7% 2015: 76.3% and the Home underwriting net loss ratio was 66.0% 2015: 62.2%.
The overall profitability of the Groups underwriting activities is measured by reference to the combined operating ratio, being the net expense ratio net insurance expenses plus claims handling costs as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance plus the net loss ratio.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the net expense ratio was 24.6% 2015: 23.8% giving a combined operating ratio of 98.8% 2015: 97.8%.
In order to get a holistic view of the contribution from Motor and Home underwriting it is also necessary to consider the impact of Non-underwritten additional services and Investments.
All Motor and Home underwriting income is generated in the UK.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 91 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 4.
Segmental information continued Segmental revenues, expenses and other information continued Additional services The performance of additional services inclusive of underwritten additional insurance products that are reported within the Motor underwriting segment, is measured by reference to revenue per in-force policy IFP on a rolling 12 month basis: at 31 December 2016, revenue per IFP was 51.07 2015: 51.70.
Investments The performance of investments is measured by reference to gross investment return on invested assets.
In addition, the Group received income from its investment in IMe Law Limited.
Statement of financial position The assets and liabilities of the Group are reported on an aggregated consolidated basis.
They are not allocated to reportable segments and are reported on the same basis as disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position on page 78.
Earned premiums, net of reinsurance Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Gross written premiums 655.0 550.3 Change in unearned premium provision 57.0 17.9 Premium revenue arising from insurance contracts issued 598.0 532.4 Written premiums, ceded to reinsurers 47.8 37.8 Change in unearned premium provision 4.7 1.0 43.1 36.8 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 554.9 495.6 6.
Investment income and instalment interest Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Interest income on financial investments 13.4 13.1 Interest income on cash deposits 0.2 0.4 Investment expenses 3.5 3.3 Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 25.8 1.2 Gains losses on financial investments 33.5 3.3 Rental income 0.3 0.4 Total investment return 18.1 6.1 Instalment interest 37.6 30.2 Total investment return and instalment interest 55.7 36.3 Total interest income calculated using the effective interest rate method comprises interest income on cash deposits and instalment interest.
Other income Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Fees for additional services 36.9 38.1 Total other income 36.9 38.1 92 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 8.
Employee benefit expense Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries 51.9 47.8 Social security costs 5.6 4.8 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 2.5 2.2 Equity settled share-based payment expenses note 27 2.6 2.2 Total employee benefit expense 62.6 57.0 The average number of employees, including Directors, during each period was: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Operations 1,212 1,193 Support 411 412 Total average number of employees 1,623 1,605 9.
Directors remuneration Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Emoluments 2.9 2.3 Vested share awards 0.4 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 0.1 0.1 Total Directors remuneration 3.4 2.4 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Remuneration of the highest paid Director Emoluments 1.1 0.7 Vested share awards 0.2 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 0.1 0.0 Total remuneration of the highest paid Director 1.4 0.7 Directors emoluments do not include the value of any share options granted to Directors.
Full disclosure of the awards are provided in note 27.
Retirement benefits were accruing to 2 Directors 2015: 2 in respect of defined contribution pension schemes.
Insurance and other operating expenses Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Acquisition of insurance contracts 75.4 52.2 Change in deferred acquisition costs 12.5 2.7 Administration 50.4 42.2 Insurance expenses 113.3 97.1 Other operating expenses 17.7 15.7 During the year ended 31 December 2016, a reclassification of 0.1m is included within other operating expenses in relation to a revaluation of the Groups land and buildings 2015: 1.3m credit.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 93 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 11.
Profit after tax Profit after tax is stated after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Employee benefit expense note 8 62.6 57.0 Depreciation and revaluation of property, plant and equipment note 19 3.9 0.1 Amortisation of intangible assets note 18 15.6 13.6 Operating lease payments 3.3 3.7 Government grant income 0.2 0.2 Auditors remuneration from continuing and discontinued operations: Fees for audit services Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the company 0.3 0.2 Total audit fees 0.4 0.3 Fees for non-audit services Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.0 Tax compliance services 0.0 0.0 Tax advisory fees 0.1 0.0 Corporate finance services in relation to the demerger of Gocompare.
com 1.4 All other services 0.0 0.0 Total non-audit fees 1.6 0.1 Total Group auditor remuneration 2.0 0.4 Amortisation arises on software, acquired brands and customer relationships.
Amortisation charged is recorded within insurance expenses and other operating expenses.
In 2016, non-audit fees were principally related to the reporting accountant role for the Groups demerger of Gocompare.
com and related work including tax advice specific to the demerger and a review of the accounting treatment proposed by management.
Acquisition and demerger of Gocompare.
com On 31 March 2015, the Group acquired the outstanding 50% of the ordinary shares of Gocompare.
Following the acquisition, the Group owned 100% of the ordinary share capital of Gocompare.
com and controlled 100% of the voting rights.
On 7 June 2016 the Board announced a strategic review which concluded that a demerger should be pursued.
On 3 November 2016, the demerger was completed and the shares in Gocompare.
com were admitted to the premium segment of the Official List and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
com is an internet based price comparison website for financial and non-financial products.
Consideration transferred In 2015, the Group paid 96.2m in cash for the outstanding 50% of the ordinary share capital of Gocompare.
com, being the 95.0m committed to as at 31 December 2014 and 1.2m arising as a result of the adjustment mechanism described in the Groups 2014 annual report and accounts.
In line with the requirements of IFRS 3, the Groups existing 50% interest in Gocompare.
com was remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date, with the resulting gain of 63.8m recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as a joint venture deemed disposal gain.
This treatment effectively considers that the Groups existing interest is sold immediately prior to the acquisition at its fair value, and subsequently repurchased at the same value at the acquisition date.
The fair value of the Groups existing interest immediately prior to the acquisition has been estimated to be equal to the fair value of consideration offered by the Group for the other 50% of Gocompare.
The table below summarises the acquisition date fair values of each major class of consideration transferred: m Cash 96.2 Fair value of existing interest in Gocompare 96.2 Total reported consideration 192.4 94 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 12.
com continued Consideration transferred continued Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed The following table summarises the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair values at the date of acquisition: Fair value at IFRS book Fair value the acquisition values adjustments date m m m Assets Gocompare.
com customer relationships 10.2 10.2 Software 1.2 1.2 Intangible assets 1.2 51.1 52.3 Property, plant and equipment 1.4 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 21.1 21.1 Other assets 14.0 14.0 Total assets 37.7 51.1 88.8 Liabilities Other liabilities 13.9 10.2 24.1 Total liabilities 13.9 10.2 24.1 Net assets 23.8 40.9 64.7 Goodwill 127.7 Total reported consideration 192.4 Measurement of fair values Identifiable intangible assets at the acquisition date include fair values of 40.9m for the Gocompare.
com brand and 10.2m for the Gocompare.
com customer relationships with a related deferred tax liability recognised of 10.2m for these intangible assets.
The brand and customer relationships were valued according to the relief-from-royalty method and the multi-period excess earnings method respectively.
The relief-from-royalty method considers the notional present value of estimated royalty payments that would be payable were the Gocompare.
com brand to be licensed from a third party owner.
A royalty rate of 10% of revenue was used for the Gocompare.
com brand based on comparable royalty rates in the market place, applied to the brands estimated useful economic life of five years.
The multi-period excess earnings method considers the present value of net cash flows expected to be generated by Gocompare.
com customer relationships over their estimated useful economic life of two years, by excluding from Gocompare.
com total forecast cash flows any estimated cash flows relating to other contributory assets.
For all other assets the IFRS book values were considered to approximate fair value.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition of 127.7m relates to future value derived from the Group having gained control of Gocompare.
com, planned strategic developments and other intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition under IFRS 3.
No goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Impact on reported revenue and profit after tax Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2015, assuming that the same joint venture deemed disposal gain and fair value adjustments that arose at the date of acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2015, the adjustments to the Groups income, profit after tax and trading profit for the year ended 31 December 2015 would have been as follows: Increase in other income of 29.0m to 151.2m for the year ended 31 December 2015 following inclusion of revenue relating to Gocompare.
com: Increase in profit after tax of 0.5m to 122.4m for the year ended 31 December 2015, including 3.3m of additional other operating expenses relating to amortisation of acquired intangibles: and Increase in consolidated trading profit of 3.4m to 95.7m for the year ended 31 December 2015. esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 95 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 12.
com continued Dividends received from the joint venture Prior to the acquisition, the Group received dividends from Gocompare.
Demerger The demerger was effected by the Group making an interim in-specie distribution of Gocompare.
Following approval of the demerger by shareholders, but before the approval of the demerger dividend by the Board, Gocompare.
com plc drew down debt of 75m under a term loan facility and paid a cash dividend to the Group of 73.3m.
com has been presented as a discontinued operation with all income and expenses shown as a single line in the statement of comprehensive income.
The demerger is considered a distribution of non-cash assets to owners and, as such, falls under IFRIC 17 which requires a revaluation to fair value.
A non-cash gain of 213.6m, based on the fair value of the assets at demerger based on the market valuation on the date of demerger, is therefore recorded in the statement of comprehensive income.
There is no impact on the prior year financial statements as a result of this demerger other than a change in the presentation of the results in the statement of comprehensive income and the cash flows of the Gocompare.
com business to discontinued operations the notes reflect the transfer of individual line items to discontinued operations.
The following tables summarise the performance of Gocompare.
com from 1 January 2016 to the demerger on 3 November 2016 and for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Period ended Year ended 3 Nov 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Investment return 0.0 0.2 Fees for additional services 113.1 84.1 Total income 113.1 84.3 Other operating expenses 88.6 67.6 Share of joint venture profit 3.5 Trading profit 24.5 20.2 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 11.1 10.4 Fees associated with the demerger of Gocompare.
com 14.5 Non-cash demerger gain Joint venture deemed disposal gain 213.6 63.8 Share of joint venture tax 0.5 Profit before tax 212.5 73.1 Taxation expense 2.8 1.1 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 209.7 72.0 The following table analyses the cash flows relating to the discontinued operation included in the consolidated cash flow statement from 1 January to the demerger on 3 November 2016 and for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Period ended Year ended 3 Nov 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Net cash generated from operating activities 26.8 18.6 Net cash used by investing activities 1.1 1.1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 25.7 17.5 All statement of financial position items are, post demerger, derecognised from the statement of financial position with the net assets at demerger being shown as a single movement in the statement of changes in equity of 301.8m being the valuation of the distribution to shareholders.
The non-cash gain of 213.6m is recorded as an increase in goodwill and intangible assets immediately prior to demerger.
96 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 12.
com continued Demerger continued The following schedule details the assets and liabilities of the demerged group 3 Nov 2016 m Assets Goodwill and intangible assets 372.0 Property, plant and equipment 1.4 Other receivables 21.2 Cash and cash equivalents 17.4 Total assets 412.0 Liabilities Other payables 29.2 Current tax liabilities 2.2 Deferred tax liabilities 5.7 Borrowings 73.1 Total liabilities 110.2 Net assets 301.8 The average number of employees, including Directors, during each period was: Period ended 31 March to 3 Nov 2016 31 Dec 2015 Price comparison 139 129 13.
Finance costs Finance costs in each period represents the total interest expense calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Interest expense on 10 year subordinated notes see note 19 8.7 8.7 Total finance costs 8.7 8.7 14.
Taxation Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Current taxes on income for the reporting period 13.9 11.0 Tax adjustment relating to income for prior periods 0.2 0.2 Total current tax 13.7 10.8 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.2 0.2 Effect of change in tax rate 0.3 0.0 Total deferred tax credit charge 0.5 0.2 Taxation expense 13.2 11.0 The tax rate used for the calculations is the Corporation Tax rate of 20.00% 2015: 20.25% payable by the corporate entities in the UK on taxable profits under tax law in that jurisdiction.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 97 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 14.
Taxation continued The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Continuing operations Profit before taxation 72.7 60.9 Taxation calculated at 20.00% 2015: 20.25% 14.5 12.3 Effect of expenses that are not deductible 0.3 0.2 Adjustments in relation to the current tax of prior years 0.2 0.2 Non-taxable income 0.8 0.9 Change in tax rate 0.6 0.0 Taxation expense 13.2 11.0 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Tax recognised directly in equity m m Deferred tax credit charge recognised directly in equity 0.3 0.1 Total tax recognised directly in equity 0.3 0.1 The deferred tax recognised directly in equity relates to deferred tax arising on share-based payments where the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense recognised.
In 2016 there is also deferred tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income that relates to AFS investments.
Factors affecting the tax charge for future periods A reduction in the standard rate of Corporation Tax from 21% to 20% was effective from 1 April 2015.
There will be further reductions in the rate of Corporation Tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 17% from 1 April 2020.
These changes were substantively enacted at the year end date and have been taken into account in the calculation of the deferred tax liability.
Dividends A 2016 interim dividend per share of 3.0p 12.5m was declared by the Board of Directors in August 2016 2015: interim dividend per share of 4.2p, 17.5m.
Subsequent to the year end, a 2016 final dividend per share of 10.5p 43.9m was declared by the Board of Directors 2015: final dividend per share of 7.3p, 30.3m.
Earnings per share Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group and the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
A calculation is also shown based on the earnings from continuing operations attributable to the owners of the Group.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group by the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period adjusted for any dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
Share issues during the year are set out in note 26.
The difference between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year, being 2,009,742 2015: 1,202,953, relates to the dilutive potential of the share-based payment arrangements.
Details of share awards are set out in note 27.
98 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 16.
Earnings per share continued Diluted continued Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Profit after taxation 269.2 121.9 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million basic 416.6 415.5 Unadjusted earnings per share basic pence 64.6 29.3 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million diluted 418.6 416.7 Unadjusted earnings per share diluted pence 64.3 29.3 Continuing operations earnings per share Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Profit from continuing operations, net of tax 59.5 49.9 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million basic 416.6 415.5 Earnings per share from continuing operations basic pence 14.3 12.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million diluted 418.6 416.7 Earnings per share from continuing operations diluted pence 14.2 12.0 Discontinued operations earnings per share Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 209.7 72.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million basic 416.6 415.5 Earnings per share from continuing operations basic pence 50.3 17.3 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million diluted 418.6 416.7 Earnings per share from continuing operations diluted pence 50.1 17.3 Underlying earnings per share In 2016, as a result of the demerger of Gocompare.
com plc the Group recognised costs relating to the transaction and a non-cash gain on demerger and, in 2015, as a result of the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the share capital of Gocompare.
com on 31 March 2015, the Group recognised a joint venture deemed disposal gain and amortisation relating to the intangible assets arising on the application of IFRS 3.
In order to reflect better the Groups performance for the period and its dividend paying capacity, an additional underlying earnings per share calculation is presented below.
The reported profit after tax for each period is adjusted for the Groups non-cash gain on demerger under IFRIC 17 31 December 2016: 213.6m: 31 December 2015: nil, the joint venture deemed disposal gain 31 December 2016: nil: 31 December 2015: 63.8m, the costs relating to the demerger 31 December 2016: 14.5m: 31 December 2015: nil and amortisation of acquired intangibles, from continuing and discontinued operations, net of the deferred tax credit associated with the amortisation 31 December 2016: 10.4m: 31 December 2015: 10.1m.
The number of shares is set at the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the reporting date.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Profit after taxation 269.2 121.9 Adjustments net of taxation 188.7 53.7 Underlying profit after tax 80.5 68.2 Number of shares million basic 417.9 416.9 Underlying earnings per share basic pence 19.3 16.4 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 99 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 17.
Goodwill and intangible assets Acquired Customer Goodwill Software brands relationships Total m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2015 7.5 24.2 11.3 43.0 Acquisition of Gocompare.
Included in acquired brands and customer relationships were the Gocompare.
com brand and the Gocompare.
com customer relationships recognised on application of IFRS 3 to the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary share capital of Gocompare.
com brand had an estimated fair value at the date of acquisition of 40.9m and was being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life of five years.
com customer relationships had an estimated fair value at the date of acquisition of 10.2m and were being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life of two years.
The other acquired brands and customer relationship intangible assets represent the Sheilas Wheels and esure brands and customer relationships acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition of esure Holdings Limited in February 2010.
These assets were fair valued at the date of acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3.
The brands are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives of between eight and ten years.
The customer relationships are being amortised on a reducing balance basis over their estimated useful economic lives of between five and six years.
Impairment testing on intangible assets The Group tests intangible assets with finite useful lives for impairment where there are indicators that their carrying value may be impaired.
There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported for any intangible assets with finite useful lives and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
Goodwill In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, goodwill arising on the acquisition of Gocompare.
com was tested annually for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill was allocated with its recoverable amount, which represented the higher of its estimated fair value and value in use.
An impairment loss would have been recognised had the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Up until the time of the demerger of Gocompare.
com the recoverable amount of the Gocompare.
com cash generating unit was based on its value in use, which is determined using cash flow projections derived from financial plans approved by the Board covering a three year period.
They reflect the Boards expectations of revenue, earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA growth, capital expenditure, working capital and operating cash flows, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance.
Cash flows beyond the three year period were extrapolated using perpetuity growth rates.
A growth rate of 3% was applied to extrapolate the cash flows into perpetuity.
Growth was reviewed and held at 3% so as not to exceed the long-term expected growth rate of the country and industry Gocompare.
com operates in, in accordance with IAS 36.
The pre-tax discount rate used was 13%.
The Directors were comfortable that a reasonable change in the underlying assumptions would not have indicated an impairment.
100 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 18.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost As at 1 January 2015 11.6 20.5 32.1 Acquisition of Gocompare.
com note 12 1.4 1.4 Additions in the year 6.6 6.6 Revaluation of land and buildings 1.3 1.3 As at 31 December 2015 12.9 28.5 41.4 Additions in the year 0.0 3.4 3.4 Demerger of Gocompare.
com note 12 2.3 2.3 Disposals in the year 1.5 1.5 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.0 0.0 As at 31 December 2016 12.9 28.1 41.0 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 January 2015 5.4 5.4 Depreciation for the year 0.1 1.2 1.3 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2015 6.6 6.6 Depreciation for the year 0.1 3.9 4.0 Demerger of Gocompare.
com note 12 0.9 0.9 Disposals in the year 1.1 1.1 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2016 8.5 8.5 Carrying amount As at 31 December 2015 12.9 21.9 34.8 As at 31 December 2016 12.9 19.6 32.5 Included in property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2015 was 18.8m relating to computer hardware assets that were not yet available for use in the manner intended by management.
These assets are now being used by the business and depreciation is being charged accordingly.
Owner-occupied properties are stated at their revalued amounts, as assessed by qualified external valuers annually, all with recent relevant experience.
These values are assessed in accordance with the relevant parts of the current RICS Valuation Standards in the UK Red Book.
More frequent revaluations are performed by management to assess that the carrying amount does not materially differ from its fair value.
This assessment, on the basis of existing use value and in accordance with UK Valuation Standard 1.3, is the estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction, after proper marketing wherein the parties had acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion, assuming that the buyer is granted vacant possession of all parts of the property required by the business and disregarding potential alternative uses and any other characteristics of the property that would cause its market value to differ from that needed to replace the remaining service potential at least cost.
The valuation assessment adopts market-based evidence and is in line with guidance from the International Valuation Standards Committee and the requirements of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
Independent valuations were performed as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
If land and buildings were not stated at their revalued amounts, and were instead held under the cost model, land and buildings would have a carrying value at 31 December 2016 of 11.8m 31 December 2015: 11.9m.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 101 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 19.
Financial assets As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Financial investments designated at FVTPL: Shares and other variable yield securities and units in unit trusts 39.3 39.3 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 394.5 497.9 Deposits with credit institutions 209.3 188.8 Financial investments held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Financial investments at FVTPL 643.2 726.1 AFS financial assets: Debt securities and other fixed income securities 192.6 Shares in unquoted equity investments 3.2 2.4 Loans and receivables: Insurance and other receivables note 21 198.2 174.1 Cash and cash equivalents note 23 25.5 31.9 Total financial assets 1,062.7 934.5 Financial investments are held to support the Groups insurance activities and may be required to be realised in order to meet the obligations arising out of those activities at any time.
Available for sale financial assets AFS In 2016, in order to refine and enhance asset and liability matching for capital management purposes, the Group has designated some financial investments as available for sale.
Any movements in the fair value of these assets is accounted for in Other Comprehensive Income, reducing the volatility in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Derivative financial instruments, at fair value through profit or loss To eliminate as far as possible the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the value of investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling, the Group has purchased forward currency contracts.
The Group also uses government bond futures as a mechanism to adjust investment portfolio duration.
The Groups exposure to currency risk is set out in note 19.3 a iii.
Financial liabilities As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Financial liabilities held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 1.6 3.3 Other financial liabilities: Borrowings see below 122.8 122.6 Insurance and other payables note 24 17.1 15.2 Total financial liabilities 141.5 141.1 As at As at 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 m m Borrowings 10 year Subordinated Notes 122.8 122.6 Total borrowings 122.8 122.6 Derivative financial instruments are due within one year.
Subordinated Notes 125m 10 year Subordinated Notes were issued by esure Group plc on 19 December 2014 at the rate of 6.75% per annum, with payments made biannually.
The carrying amount of the 10 year Subordinated Notes approximates their fair value.
The nominal 125m Subordinated Notes have a maturity date of 19 December 2024.
The Notes are direct, unsecured and subordinated obligations of the Group, ranking pari passu and without preference amongst themselves, and will, in the event of the winding-up of the Group or in the event of an administrator of the Group being appointed and giving notice that it intends to declare and distribute a dividend, be subordinated to the claims of all Senior Creditors and policyholders of the Group.
102 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 19.
Financial assets and liabilities continued 19.3.
Financial risk management objectives The Group is exposed to a range of financial risks through its financial assets, financial liabilities, reinsurance assets and policyholder liabilities.
In particular, the key financial risk is that the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance policies as they fall due.
The most important components of this financial risk are market risk including interest rate risk, equity price risk and currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
a Market risk These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements.
The market risks that the Group primarily faces due to the nature of its investments and liabilities are interest rate risk and equity price risk.
The Group manages market risk by virtue of its risk management framework, incorporating the Groups Risk Appetite and setting an appropriate investment strategy.
The majority of investments held are listed and traded on the UK and other recognised stock exchanges.
The Group has a defined investment strategy and market risk policy which sets limits on the Groups exposure by setting, where applicable, duration, issuer and other concentration limits for each asset class.
The Groups Investment Management Committee are responsible for setting investment strategy, guidelines and policies, in line with the Board approved Risk Appetite.
Ultimately, the Board retains oversight of investment strategy, whilst remaining responsible for the Groups Risk Appetite.
The Investment Management Committee agrees a Strategic Asset Allocation which is then implemented by its external investment managers.
The Strategic Asset Allocation is reviewed annually and performance against the Strategic Asset Allocation is reviewed at the Investment Management Committees.
Investment Management Committee meetings, chaired by an Executive Director, are held at least six times per annum.
At these meetings, Executive Directors and senior managers meet to discuss investment performance, composition and strategy across the Groups portfolio.
i Interest rate risk The Investment Management Committee balances the portfolio of investments to manage the exposure to interest rate risk.
In addition, to the extent that claims inflation is correlated to interest rates, liabilities to policyholders are exposed to interest rate risk.
The Group monitors interest rate risk on a monthly basis by calculating the mean duration of key elements of the investment portfolio and of the liabilities to policyholders under insurance contracts.
The mean duration is an indicator of the sensitivity of the assets and liabilities to changes in current interest rates.
The mean duration of the technical liabilities is determined by means of projecting expected cash flows using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
Asset allocation decisions made by the Investment Management Committee give due consideration to the duration and profile of liabilities to avoid any significant mismatch in the asset and liability profiles.
In order to preserve capital and to manage the risk of interest rate movements causing a material impact to the Groups solvency coverage, which also reflect the impact of Solvency II, the Group aims to maintain a broad alignment of duration between the appropriate asset portfolios and its liabilities.
The Groups investment managers also have the ability to use Government bond futures as a mechanism to ensure portfolio duration remains within strict limits.
The sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk illustrates how changes in the fair value or future cash flows of the financial investments bearing interest rate risk will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates at the reporting date.
For an increase of 100 basis points in the Bank of England base rate the profit after tax for the period would decrease by 3.7m 2015: 4.8m, reflecting the reduction in fair value on assets designated as FVTPL and equity would decrease by 16.4m 2015: 4.1m.
For a decrease of 25 basis points in the Bank of England base rate the profit after tax for the period would increase by 0.9m 2015: 1.2m, reflecting the increase in fair value on assets designated as FVTPL and equity would increase by 4.1m 2015: 1.2m.
The increased sensitivity to interest rates, on an equity basis, is caused by the Groups extension of duration from 1.0 years to 2.6 years and this change being predominantly driven by assets designated as AFS.
ii Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk as a result of its holdings in investments with prices quoted on a stock exchange which are designated as financial assets at FVTPL.
Exposures to individual companies and to equity shares in aggregate are defined within the appropriate investment management guidelines and monitored on a regular basis.
If equity market indices had increased decreased by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would increase decrease by 3.9m 2015: 3.9m.
iii Currency risk The Group has exposure to currency risk in respect of certain investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
At the reporting date the most significant currencies to which the Group is exposed are Euros and US Dollars USD.
The Group seeks to mitigate currency risk by the use of forward contracts with a maturity of less than three months from the reporting date, matching the estimated foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities denominated in the same currency.
Strict agreements are in place with investment managers to ensure all non-Sterling debt securities and other fixed income securities are hedged to between 99.5% and 100.5% of the carrying value.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 103 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 19.
Financial risk management objectives continued One investment manager, who holds shares and other variable yield securities, is permitted per their mandate to have unhedged currency risk exposure of up to 12.2m 2015: 11.4m.
At the reporting date, the Group has direct exposure to both USD and Euros through shares with a value of 2.1m 2015: 2.2m.
If the Sterling rates with either of these foreign currencies had strengthened weakened by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would decrease increase by 0.2m 2015: 0.2m.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not be able to pay amounts in full when due in accordance with the term of the contract, causing the Group to incur a financial loss.
Key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are: Credit instruments held within the investment portfolio: Other amounts due from investment counterparties: Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities: Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid: Amounts due from policyholders: Subrogation and salvage recoveries: and Amounts due from claims suppliers.
Reinsurance is used to manage insurance risk.
This does not, however, discharge the Groups liability as primary insurer.
If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim, the Group remains liable for the payment to the policyholder.
The creditworthiness of reinsurers is considered on an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength prior to finalisation of any contract.
In addition, management assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers by reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly available financial information.
An analysis of the credit grade of the Groups 10 largest exposures to reinsurers by Standard & Poors S&P and A. M. Best ratings is produced and reviewed on a monthly basis.
The minimum credit rating that the Group requires for participation in its reinsurance programmes is Standard & Poors Aor the A. M. Best equivalent.
The Group manages the levels of investment counterparty credit risk it accepts by placing limits on its exposure to a single counterparty, or groups of counterparties, and on geographical counterparties and geographical segments.
Such risks are subject to regular review by the Investment Management Committee.
Investments bearing credit risk, and cash and cash equivalents, are summarised below, together with an analysis by credit rating as at the reporting date: As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Debt securities 587.1 497.9 Deposits with credit institutions 209.3 188.8 Cash at bank and in hand 25.5 31.9 Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 822.0 718.7 AAA 300.9 297.0 AA 204.8 132.1 A 155.5 173.9 BBB 94.0 53.4 Below BBB or not rated 66.8 62.3 Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 822.0 718.7 For a widening of 100 basis points in credit spreads across the entire credit quality curve the profit before tax for the period would decrease by 5.0m 2015: 7.3m, reflecting the reduction in fair value on assets designated as FVTPL and the impact on equity would be a decrease by 7.4m 2015: 7.3m.
Shares and other variable yield securities and units in unit trusts do not bear credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents are A rated.
The analysis by credit rating illustrates a slight deterioration in credit quality over the period under review, with a higher proportion of assets rated BBB or below in 2016 compared to 2015 19% in 2016: 16% in 2015, however, diversification has increased.
104 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 19.
Financial risk management objectives continued Insurance receivables due from policyholders and other debtors are not subject to credit rating and are not included in the table above.
Owing to the high number of individual policyholders through which the Group has minimal individual exposure, the overall risk of default to the Group is considered to be insignificant.
The Group regularly reviews the ageing and individual characteristics of the counterparties of insurance receivables and other debtors to manage credit risk and to ensure that impairments are made where necessary.
No credit limits were exceeded during the year, and no significant financial assets are past due but not impaired at the reporting date.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
The primary liquidity risk of the Group is the obligation to pay claims to policyholders as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is minimal due to the liquid nature of the Groups investments and the nature of the business, which is such that material liabilities are driven by claims costs, which have a significant lead time from notification to payment.
In order to mitigate liquidity risk, the maturity of the technical liabilities is determined by means of projecting expected cash flows using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
Asset allocation decisions made by the Investment Management Committee give due consideration to the maturity and profile of liabilities to ensure that the maturity of assets is equal to or shorter than the maturity of liabilities.
During the year the Investment Management Committee agreed that in order to better match the liquidity needs of the Group some assets would be held as available for sale and accounted for accordingly.
The following table analyses the contractual maturity of the Groups financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets excluding shares and other variable-yield securities and units in unit trusts and financial insurance liabilities plus social security and other taxes which are not financial liabilities.
Salvage and subrogation assets, reinsurers share of outstanding claims and claims outstanding are presented at their carrying amount and their maturities are based on the expected dates on which the claims will be settled.
Social security and other taxation liabilities are presented at their carrying amount and their maturities are based on the dates at which they are expected to be settled.
The table also indicates the expected timings of cash flows relating to the unearned premium reserve.
The analysis of non derivative financial liabilities and assets is based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables in relation to debt securities and borrowings include payments of both principal and interest: Less than 1 Between 1 More than Carrying year and 5 years 5 years Total value m m m m m Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets At 31 December 2016 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.1 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 180.9 339.7 113.5 634.1 587.1 Deposits with credit institutions 209.3 209.3 209.3 Cash at bank and in hand 25.5 25.5 25.5 Loans and receivables including salvage and subrogation assets 230.6 8.1 238.7 238.7 Total excluding reinsurers share of outstanding claims 646.4 347.8 113.5 1,107.7 1,060.7 Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 18.4 103.8 148.9 271.1 271.1 Total 664.8 451.6 262.4 1,378.8 1,331.8 Financial and insurance liabilities At 31 December 2016 Borrowings 8.4 33.8 150.3 192.5 122.8 Derivative financial instruments 1.6 1.6 1.6 Insurance and other payables and social security and other taxes 39.6 39.6 39.6 Financial and tax liabilities 49.6 33.8 150.3 233.7 164.0 Claims outstanding 249.7 283.4 139.8 672.9 672.9 Unearned premium reserve 217.0 83.6 8.2 308.8 308.8 Financial and insurance liabilities 516.3 400.8 298.3 1,215.4 1,145.7 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 105 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 19.
Financial risk management objectives continued Less than 1 Between 1 More than Carrying year and 5 years 5 years Total value m m m m m Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets At 31 December 2015 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.1 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 141.9 301.4 96.2 539.5 497.9 Deposits with credit institutions 188.8 188.8 188.8 Cash at bank and in hand 31.9 31.9 31.9 Loans and receivables including salvage and subrogation assets 203.1 5.0 208.1 208.1 Total excluding reinsurers share of outstanding claims 565.8 306.4 96.2 968.4 926.8 Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 12.5 71.7 125.1 209.3 209.3 Total 578.3 378.1 221.3 1,177.7 1,136.1 Financial and insurance liabilities At 31 December 2015 Borrowings 8.5 33.8 158.8 201.1 122.6 Derivative financial instruments 3.3 3.3 3.3 Insurance and other payables and social security and other taxes 32.4 32.4 32.4 Financial and tax liabilities 44.2 33.8 158.8 236.8 158.3 Claims outstanding 230.8 244.1 139.3 614.2 614.2 Unearned premium reserve 189.4 63.4 3.7 256.5 256.5 Financial and insurance liabilities 464.4 341.3 301.8 1,107.5 1,029.0 d Capital management and regulation The Group maintains a capital structure consistent with the Groups risk profile and the regulatory market requirements of its business.
The Groups objectives in managing its capital are: to match the profile of its assets and liabilities, taking account of the risk inherent in the business: to satisfy the requirements of its policyholders and regulators: to maintain financial and capital strength to support growth: and to retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity and access to a range of capital markets.
Solvency II is the new solvency framework implemented on 1 January 2016 as the capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry.
It establishes a set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management standards with the aim of increasing protection for policyholders.
The Group is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA on both a Group basis and, for the Groups sole underwriter, esure Insurance Limited, on a solo basis.
The Board has considered the risk appetite of the Group as part of the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment process under Solvency II.
The Board believe an appropriate level of capital coverage of its Solvency Capital Requirement SCR to be in the region of 130%150%.
The capital surplus above the SCR provides sufficient headroom to absorb adverse capital events and should enable the Group to continue to meet its regulatory capital requirements.
The Groups dividend policy is to target a base dividend of 50% of underlying profit after tax and enhance the base dividend with a further special dividend, if the Group has sufficient capital and distributable reserves, after allowing for an appropriate level of capital coverage of the Groups SCR and future growth opportunities.
The Board remains committed to returning excess capital to shareholders where it does not believe it can utilise retained capital for further profitable growth.
Refer to page 21 for further information about the Groups draft and unaudited 31 December 2016 Solvency II capital position.
e Fair value estimation In accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement financial instruments reported at fair value and revalued properties have been categorised into a fair value measurement hierarchy as follows: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 Inputs to Level 1 fair values are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
106 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 19.
Financial risk management objectives continued Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 2.
Fair value measurements that are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, if all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, would result in the instrument being included in Level 2.
The majority of assets classified as Level 2 are over-the-counter corporate bonds, where trades are less frequent owing to the nature of the assets.
Inputs used in pricing the Groups level 2 assets include: quoted prices for similar i. e. not identical assets in active markets: quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly: inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation: and for forward exchange contracts, the use of observable forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.
The Groups policy, should there be a change to the valuation techniques or level of activity in the market in which that asset is traded, is to transfer the asset between levels, effective from the beginning of the reporting period.
In line with the requirements of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, the Group classifies all debt securities as Level 2 assets with the exception of Government backed securities which are classified as Level 1 unless they are illiquid.
There have been no changes in respect of the categorisation of debt securities between Levels 1 and 2 during the period 2015: nil.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 Unobservable inputs have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset at the measurement date or market information for the inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
The Group held Level 3 AFS financial assets of 3.2m as at 31 December 2016 2015: 2.4m, representing an investment in an unquoted equity investment which has been valued using a discounted cash flow valuation model.
Under IFRS 13, land and buildings with a carrying value of 12.9m 2015: 12.9m are classified as Level 3 assets.
The valuers opinion of fair value was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms.
No sensitivity analysis has been performed due to the nature of the valuation.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Total fair Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value m m m m At 31 December 2016 Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Equity securities 39.3 39.3 Debt securities 106.9 287.6 394.5 Deposits with credit institutions 209.3 209.3 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 146.2 497.0 643.2 Debt securities 107.1 85.5 192.6 Unquoted equity securities 3.2 3.2 Total AFS financial assets 107.1 85.5 3.2 195.8 Land and buildings 12.9 12.9 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 1.6 1.6 Total financial liabilities reported at fair value 1.6 1.6 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 107 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 19.
Financial risk management objectives continued Total fair Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value m m m m At 31 December 2015 Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Equity securities 39.3 39.3 Debt securities 87.4 410.5 497.9 Deposits with credit institutions 188.8 188.8 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 126.7 599.4 726.1 Debt securities Unquoted equity securities 2.4 2.4 Total AFS financial assets 2.4 2.4 Land and buildings 12.9 12.9 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 3.3 3.3 Total financial liabilities reported at fair value 3.3 3.3 20.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities 20.1.
Insurance Risk Insurance risk arises from the inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insured events.
These would include significant weather related events and personal injury claims.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall underwriting strategy and defining the Risk Appetite, with monitoring delegated to the Pricing Committee.
The Group uses excess of loss reinsurance contracts to mitigate insurance risk, essentially by reducing exposure to large individual claims or aggregated losses from single events.
Underwriting and pricing risk The Group underwrites general insurance business for private cars and homes in mainland Britain and the associated additional insurance products.
The book consists of a large number of individual policies spread across the whole geographic area which helps to minimise concentration risk especially in terms of weather-related risks.
As well as pricing the Group has additional controls in place to segment the market and target those segments it wishes to underwrite.
Further systems and controls are in place to mitigate application fraud risk.
The Group has systems and management information in place to continually monitor underwriting performance and pricing adequacy through the Pricing Committee.
Claims management risk The Group employs a variety of strategies to ensure the correct claims are paid in a timely manner and reserve provisions made on a case by case basis to reflect the Groups future liabilities.
These include: UK based claims centres, with over 600 specialists: well resourced and expertly trained staff benefit from image and workflow technology to control paper flow and procedures to enhance efficiency and effectiveness: its own network of motor repairers and dedicated teams offering an extensive range of services directly to not at fault third parties to efficiently control credit hire cost and legal fees.
Over 90% of accidental damage claims are settled through the repair network: and comprehensive anti-fraud strategies are in place to check both fraudulent claims and new business applications.
Reinsurance The Group purchases reinsurance as a risk transfer mechanism to mitigate risks that are outside the Groups appetite for individual claim or event exposure and to reduce the volatility caused by large individual and accumulation losses.
By doing so the Group protects its capital and the underwriting result of each line of business.
Currently the Group has in place non-proportional excess of loss reinsurance programmes for its Motor and Home underwriting activities.
The purpose of these programmes is to provide cover for both individual large losses, for Motor and Home, and accumulation losses arising from natural and other catastrophe events for Home.
Motor reinsurance treaties are in place covering all years in which the Group has underwritten Motor policies.
The Groups reinsurance programmes are reviewed on an annual basis and capital modelling is used to identify the most appropriate structure and risk retention profile, taking into account the Groups business objective of minimising volatility and the prevailing cost and availability of reinsurance in the market.
Counterparty credit risk is a key consideration when the Group enters into reinsurance treaties.
See note 19.3 b for more detail.
108 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 20.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 20.1.
Insurance Risk continued Reserving risk Reserving risk is defined as the uncertainty regarding either the current level of reserves or the payment distribution over their lifetime.
The Group analyses and projects historical claims development data and uses a number of actuarial techniques to both test and forecast claims provisions.
In addition the Group also provides data to external actuaries who assess the adequacy of the Groups claims provisions.
Apart from historical analyses the Group also takes into account changes in risk profile and underwriting policy conditions, changes in legislation or regulation and changes in other external factors.
The ultimate costs and expenses of the claims for which these reserves are held are subject to a number of material uncertainties.
As time passes between the reporting of a claim and the final settlement of the claim, circumstances can change that may require established reserves to be adjusted either upwards or downwards.
Factors such as changes in the legal environment, results of litigation, propensity of personal injury claims, changes in medical and care costs, and costs of vehicle and home repairs can all substantially impact overall costs and expenses of claims, and cause a material divergence from the bases and assumptions on which the reserves were calculated.
Claims subject to periodic payment orders PPOs are an area of uncertainty relating to the claims provision at 31 December 2016.
For known PPOs and claims which have been identified as potential PPO awards, cash flow projections are carried out in order to estimate an ultimate cost on a gross and net of reinsurance basis.
The cash flow projections are undertaken on a discounted basis.
The total net claims provision recognised for PPOs and potential PPOs in the consolidated statement of financial position represents less than 5% of net claims outstanding at 31 December 2016.
In the context of the Groups approach to the mitigation and management of underwriting risk, its reinsurance programme including its approach to mitigating counterparty credit risk and the Groups prudent approach to reserving for potential PPOs, the risk of an adverse development of the Groups reserves for PPO claims is not considered to be significant.
In addition, the Ministry of Justice has reviewed the discount rate used in the calculation of damage awards in bodily injury claims and in February 2017 made an announcement reducing the rate from plus 2.5% to minus 0.75%.
See note 31 for further discussion of the effect on the Group.
The Groups policy is to hold sufficient provisions, including those to cover claims which have been incurred but not reported IBNR to meet all liabilities as they fall due.
Apart from that part of the provisions relating to PPOs, claims provisions are not discounted.
The Directors remain satisfied that the outstanding claims reserves included in these financial statements provide an appropriate margin over projected ultimate claims costs.
Analysis of recognised amounts As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Gross Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling expenses 672.9 614.2 Unearned premiums 329.4 272.4 Total insurance liabilities, gross 1,002.3 886.6 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims outstanding 271.1 209.3 Unearned premiums 20.6 15.9 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 291.7 225.2 Net claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling expenses 401.8 404.9 Unearned premiums 308.8 256.5 Total insurance liabilities, net 710.6 661.4 Due within one year gross 546.4 503.3 Due in more than one year gross 455.9 383.3 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 109 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 20.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 20.2.
Analysis of recognised amounts continued As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Reinsurance assets Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 291.7 225.2 Total assets arising from reinsurance contracts 291.7 225.2 Expected to be recovered within one year 39.0 28.4 Expected to be recovered in more than one year 252.7 196.8 Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid by the Group on the contracts that are reinsured are included in insurance and other receivables note 21.
No reinsurance assets have been impaired.
Claims outstanding and claims handling expenses are shown before deducting amounts in respect of salvage and subrogation.
As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Net claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling 401.8 404.9 Salvage and subrogation recoveries 40.5 34.0 Net claims outstanding and claims handling expenses 361.3 370.9 20.3.
Sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions The following table shows the impact of a 1% variation in the loss ratio on profit or loss and shareholders equity after tax as at 31 December 2016: Accident year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net loss ratio 67% 85% 95% 79% 61% 68% 70% 80% 80% 81% Impact of 1% variation m 2.6 3.4 4.1 3.6 3.7 3.8 3.9 3.9 4.0 4.4 The impact is stated net of reinsurance and tax at the current rate.
110 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 20.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 20.4.
Claims development tables The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Groups ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
Tables a and b illustrate how the Groups estimate of total claims incurred for each accident year has developed over the past ten years, including a reconciliation to the claims liability reported in the consolidated statement of financial position.
esure Group plc acquired esure Holdings Limited on 11 February 2010.
The estimated claims disclosed in the tables prior to the date of acquisition are those of esure Holdings Limited.
Table c expresses the development of net incurred claims by reference to the loss ratio for each accident year over the past ten years.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 20.5.
Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets a Claims recognised in the financial statements and claims handling expenses The movements in claims recognised, including claims handling expenses, both gross and net of reinsurance, are shown below: 2016 2015 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m At 1 January 567.6 209.3 358.3 562.7 194.4 368.3 Cash paid for claims settled in year 434.3 12.6 421.7 383.8 7.4 376.4 Change arising from: Current year claims 534.6 83.7 450.9 457.2 34.1 423.1 Prior year claims 48.0 9.3 38.7 68.5 11.8 56.7 Total at end of year 619.9 271.1 348.8 567.6 209.3 358.3 Provision for claims handling costs 12.5 12.5 12.6 12.6 Salvage and subrogation 40.5 40.5 34.0 34.0 Total reserve per statement of financial position 672.9 271.1 401.8 614.2 209.3 404.9 Claims incurred and claims handling expenses as disclosed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income comprise: Year ended 31 Dec 2016 Year ended 31 Dec 2015 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Claims incurred 486.6 74.4 412.2 388.8 22.3 366.5 Claims handling expenses 22.9 22.9 21.1 21.1 Claims incurred and claims handling expenses 509.5 74.4 435.1 409.9 22.3 387.6 During 2016, the Group continued to experience favourable development of prior accident year reserves 38.7m reduction in prior year claims reserves net of reinsurance in the year ended 31 December 2016, but to a lesser extent than during the year ended 31 December 2015 56.7m reduction in prior year claims reserves net of reinsurance in the year ended 31 December 2015. b Provisions for unearned premiums The movements for the year, both gross and net of reinsurance, are summarised below: 2016 2015 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Unearned premium provision At beginning of the year 272.4 15.9 256.5 254.4 14.9 239.5 Premiums written in the year 655.0 47.8 607.2 550.3 37.8 512.5 Premiums earned in the year 598.0 43.1 554.9 532.3 36.8 495.5 At end of year 329.4 20.6 308.8 272.4 15.9 256.5 21.
Insurance and other receivables As at As at 31 Dec 31 Dec 2016 2015 m m Insurance receivables 190.2 154.2 Prepayments and accrued income 6.9 8.6 Other debtors 8.0 19.9 Salvage and subrogation assets 40.5 34.0 Total insurance and other receivables 245.6 216.7 Insurance receivables and other debtors are financial assets classified as loans and receivables.
For more details see note 19, which includes the ageing of these loans and receivables.
The Directors believe the carrying value of these financial assets approximates their fair value.
All insurance receivables and other receivables are expected to be recovered within one year, aside from 8.1m of salvage and subrogation assets which are expected to be recovered in more than one year 2015: 5.0m.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 113 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 22.
Deferred acquisition costs Movement in the deferred acquisition costs asset are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Deferred Acquisition Costs At 1 January 25.3 28.0 Movement during the period 12.5 2.7 At 31 December 37.8 25.3 23.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 25.5 31.9 Total 25.5 31.9 24.
Insurance and other payables As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Insurance payables 17.1 15.2 Accrued expenses 22.6 27.0 Social security and other taxes 22.5 17.1 Deferred income 15.1 12.9 Total insurance and other payables 77.3 72.2 Insurance payables and accrued expenses principally comprise amounts outstanding for suppliers and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for invoiced trade purchases is 21.7 days 2015: 15.9 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of insurance and other payables approximates their fair value.
All insurance and other payables are expected to be settled within one year aside from Government grants.
Included within deferred income is 0.2m in Government grants 2015: 0.4m.
This is recognised as income over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Scottish Executive Grants have been received by the Group based on two factors: expenditure on fixed assets and the creation of new jobs.
In order for the Group to avoid repayment of the grants received, the new jobs created in order to meet the grant conditions must remain in existence for a period of at least five years.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities The following are the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior periods.
The analysis of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities is as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Deferred tax assets 0.7 1.0 Deferred tax liabilities 3.9 12.6 Net deferred tax liabilities 3.2 11.6 114 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 25.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued The net movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m At 1 January 11.6 3.3 Income statement credit expense in respect of continuing operations note 14 0.2 0.2 Income statement credit in respect of discontinued operations 2.5 2.0 Recognised on acquisition of Gocompare.
com note 12 0.0 10.2 Effect of change in tax rate 0.3 0.0 Demerger of Gocompare.
com note 12 5.7 0.0 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.3 0.1 At 31 December 3.2 11.6 The deferred tax rate used is 19.27% 2015: 20.00%.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Deferred acquisition Share-based cost payments Total m m m Deferred tax assets Brought forward as at 1 January 2015 0.1 0.3 0.4 Credited to the income statement on continuing operations 0.1 0.4 0.5 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2015 0.2 0.8 1.0 Brought forward as at 1 January 2016 0.2 0.8 1.0 Credited to the income statement on continuing operations 0.1 0.3 0.2 Deferred charged tax recognised directly in equity 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2016 0.3 0.4 0.7 There is an unrecognised deferred tax asset on land and buildings of 2.0m at 31 December 2016 for which there is insufficient likelihood that future taxable gains will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Accelerated Claims capital Intangible equalisation AFS Total allowances assets reserve reserve reserve m m m m m Deferred tax liabilities Brought forward as at 1 January 2015 0.1 1.8 2.0 0.0 3.7 Arising on acquisition of Gocompare.
com note 12 0.0 10.2 10.2 Charged credited to the income statement on continuing operations 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.0 0.7 Credited to the income statement on discontinued operations 0.0 2.0 2.0 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 At 31 December 2015 0.6 9.5 2.5 0.0 12.6 Brought forward as at 1 January 2016 0.6 9.5 2.5 0.0 12.6 Demerger of Gocompare.
com note 12 0.0 5.7 5.7 Charged credited to the income statement on continuing operations 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.0 0.5 Credited to the income statement on discontinued operations 0.0 2.5 2.5 Effect of change in tax rate on continuing operations 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2016 0.7 1.1 1.8 0.3 3.9 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 115 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 26.
Share capital and other reserves Capital Ordinary Share Redemption Other Shares Premium Reserve reserves Total m m m m m At 1 January 2015 0.3 44.0 44.9 89.2 Issue of share capital 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fair value movements on AFS assets 1.0 1.0 Tax relating to fair value movements on AFS assets 0.0 0.0 At 31 December 2015 0.3 44.0 44.9 1.0 90.2 Issue of share capital 0.0 1.4 1.4 Fair value movements on AFS assets 1.9 1.9 Tax relating to fair value movements on AFS assets 0.3 0.3 Fair value movements on land and buildings 0.3 0.3 Tax relating to fair value movements on land and buildings 0.0 0.0 At 31 December 2016 0.3 45.4 44.9 2.9 93.5 During the year ended 31 December 2016, 1,063,991 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence were issued by the Group for 1.4m 31 December 2015: 10,084 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence were issued by the Group for 0.0m.
The authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of esure Group plc as at 31 December 2016 was 417,916,872 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence each 31 December 2015: 416,842,797 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence each.
The shares have full voting and dividend rights.
No shares are held in Treasury.
The esure Employee Benefit Trust held no Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: 1,346,695 and the Trustees waived their rights to dividend payments.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, 1.9m was credited to other comprehensive income in respect of fair value movements on an AFS financial asset 31 December 2015: 1.0m.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, 0.3m was credited to other comprehensive income in respect of fair value movements on land and buildings 31 December 2015: 0.0m.
The capital redemption reserve was created during the year ended 31 December 2013 for a 44.9m share repurchase.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
An award will not be granted under the executive plans if it would cause the number of shares allocated in the ten calendar year period following flotation to exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital in issue at that time.
Similarly, an award will not be granted under the employee plans if it would cause the number of shares allocated in the ten calendar year period following flotation to exceed 10% of the Ordinary Share capital in issue at that time.
Holders of these awards other than the three year and five year SAYE schemes will receive dividend equivalents in respect of the dividends that would have been paid between grant date and vesting date for Ordinary Shares which vest under their awards, calculated on a basis and paid in a manner to be determined by the Remuneration Committee before the awards vest.
Details of the share-based compensation plans and their financial effect are set out below.
a Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP and the Strategic Leadership Plan SLP are discretionary share plans for the Groups Executive and Senior Management.
Awards have been made under the PSP and SLP plan as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 SLP PSP PSP Number Number Number granted granted granted Stuart Vann 571,807 321,155 338,926 Darren Ogden 322,970 275,275 189,594 Senior Management 1,318,574 1,440,107 1,211,351 Under the schemes, the shares vest at the end of a three year period dependent upon continued employment by the Group and achieving predefined performance conditions associated with the Groups earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
For the 2014 and 2015 Directors schemes, two-thirds of each award are based on EPS performance and one-third on TSR performance with the two measures applying independently to different parts of each award.
For the 2015 Senior Management scheme, 50% of the awards are subject to the EPS and TSR performance conditions i. e. one-third and one-sixth respectively and 50% of the awards are subject only to continued employment until vesting.
For the 2016 Scheme 75% of the Awards are subject to an absolute TSR performance condition with the remaining 25% of the Awards subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
Further information on the share-based payments, including the performance conditions and changes in the year is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
116 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 27.
Share-based payments continued a Performance Share Plan continued 2016 SLP awards 2015 PSP awards 2014 PSP awards Grant dates 14 June 2016 date 25 March 2015 date 16 April 2014 date employee joined employee joined employee joined Number shares initially granted 2,213,351 2,036,537 1,739,871 Number outstanding at 1 January 2016 Nil 1,974,041 1,510,055 Forfeited lapsed during the year Nil 171,703 1,174,099 Vested during the period Nil 68,930 for good 335,956 leavers at Groups discretion Exercised during the period Nil 68,930 335,956 Average exercise price during the year Nil Nil Number outstanding at 31 December 2016 2,213,351 1,733,408 Nil Contractual life 3 years 3 years 3 years Exercise price for remaining awards nil nil Valuation of SLP awards As part of the awards are subject to a share-price related TSR performance condition, the fair value of these awards was estimated using a Stochastic Monte-Carlo model.
The remaining awards are not subject to a share-price related performance condition EPS and the fair value of the awards was estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models were: 2016 SLP awards Share price at grant 2.56 Exercise price Nil Volatility % p. a. calculated on a weekly basis over a historical period in line with the expected term of the awards at the date of grant 30.8% Dividend yield % p. a. Nil Risk-free rate % 0.41% Expected life 3 years The inputs were later adjusted as appropriate for those awards granted to employees upon joining the Group.
The total estimated fair value of the 2016 SLP options at the dates of grant was 1.8m 2015 PSP awards: 3.8m: 2014 PSP awards: 3.6m.
Refer to the Groups 2015 and 2014 annual reports for the inputs to the models associated with the 2015 and 2014 awards.
2014 senior management awards in addition to the PSP During the year ended 31 December 2014, in addition to the PSP awards disclosed above, a new senior management hire was granted 171,621 shares without performance conditions with an estimated fair value of 2.22 at the date of grant.
46% of these awards vested on 29 May 2015 when the share price was 2.59, 37% vested on 31 May 2016 when the share price was 2.84 and the remainder will vest on 31 May 2017 dependent upon continued employment by the Group.
The Remuneration Committee made the awards to compensate for remuneration that was forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
b Restructuring Award Plan RAP RAP awards were made to Directors and senior management during 2016.
The purpose of the RAP is to compensate for the significant opportunity lost under outstanding unvested incentive arrangements at the point of the Demerger as a result of any reduced market value of an esure Group plc share and the reduced size of the Group following the Demerger, as well as to reward selected employees of the Group with share-based awards in recognition of the strategic development of the Gocompare.
com business since its acquisition and for the successful completion of the Demerger and Admission.
Where share awards preserve, rather than enhance the benefit to the award holders, an expense is not recognised for that element of the award.
The RAP awards totalled 4.0m, of which 2.2m is being recognised as an expense over the 12 month vesting period, the remaining 1.8m not being recognised.
Year ended 31 Dec 2016 Number granted Stuart Vann 777,524 Darren Ogden 518,349 Senior Management 777,522 Under the scheme, the shares vest at the end of a one year period dependent upon continued employment by the Group.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 117 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 27.
Share-based payments continued Valuation of RAP awards As the awards are not subject to external performance conditions the fair value of the awards was estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models were: RAP Awards Share price at grant 1.9292 Exercise price nil Expected life 1 year Long Service awards These awards were made to eligible employees who did not already own shares in the Group and had been employed by the Group for more than two years at the point of the Groups Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
The award levels were determined by length of service The details of the award are set out below: Type of arrangement Free share award Date of grant 27 March 2013 Number granted 1,381,391 Number outstanding at 1 January 2016 1,146,406 Forfeited lapsed during the year Nil Exercised during the year 1,146,406 Expired during the year Nil Number outstanding at 31 December 2016 Nil Number exercisable at 31 December 2016 Nil Average exercise price during the year nil Contractual life 3 years Vesting conditions Continuing employment or leavers under certain circumstances The awards had no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years and shall not be subject to clawback.
The estimated fair value of the Long Service awards at grant date was 4.1m.
The estimated fair value of each award was based upon the share price of Ordinary Shares at grant date of 2.96. c Save As You Earn SAYE schemes The Group has a three year SAYE scheme and a five year SAYE scheme.
Under the 2016 scheme employees are offered the opportunity to save between 5 and 500 each month in order to purchase shares in either three or five years time at an exercise price at a 20% discount on the share price at the date before invitations were issued to participate.
The details of these awards are set out below: 2016 SAYE scheme 2015 SAYE scheme 3 year scheme 5 year scheme 3 year scheme 5 year scheme Date of grant 29 December 2016 9 September 2015 Number shares initially granted 1,568,640 142,889 706,966 101,823 Number outstanding at 1 January 2016 Nil Nil 687,774 101,823 Forfeited lapsed during the year 450 0 304,280 80,174 Vested for good leavers at Groups discretion during year 0 0 3,219 0 Number outstanding at 31 December 2016 1,568,190 142,889 380,275 21,649 Average exercise price during the year 1.912 Exercise price of outstanding awards 1.5972 1.912 2014 SAYE scheme 2013 SAYE scheme 3 year scheme 5 year scheme 3 year scheme 5 year scheme Date of grant 3 September 2014 6 September 2013 Number shares initially granted 527,607 67,144 1,083,748 176,260 Number outstanding at 1 January 2016 383,889 30,876 761,577 154,307 Forfeited lapsed during the year 159,896 8,010 33,227 63,780 Exercised during the year 0 0 688,374 4,252 Number outstanding at 31 December 2016 223,993 22,866 0 86,275 Number exercisable at 31 December 2016 0 0 39,976 0 Average exercise price during the year 1.940 1.940 Exercise price of outstanding awards 2.08 1.940 118 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 27.
Share-based payments continued Valuation of SAYE awards The fair values of the awards were estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models used to value the 2016 awards were: Scheme 3 year SAYE 5 year SAYE Share price at grant 2.018 2.018 Exercise price 1.5972 1.5972 Volatility % p. a.
2.80% 2.80% Risk-free rate % 0.32% 0.67% Expected life years 3.33 5.33 For the three year scheme the volatility has been based on the daily historical volatility of the Group over a period commensurate with the expected term.
For the five year scheme, as the Group listed in 2013, there is insufficient share price data to measure the historical volatility over the expected term.
The historic volatility has therefore been calculated for the longest period for which trading activity is available with the historical volatility of similar entities following a comparable period in their lives being used to extend this period to the expected term.
The estimated fair value of the 2016 SAYE options at the date of grant was 0.1m 2015: 0.3m, 2014: 0.3m, 2013: 0.4m.
Refer to the Groups 2015, 2014 and 2013 annual reports for the inputs to the models associated with the 2015, 2014 and 2013 awards.
d Financial effect of share-based payments made The total expense recognised for the year arising from the share-based payments above was 2.4m 2015: 2.2m.
All share based payment transactions were accounted for as equity-settled.
Commitments a Pension capital commitments The Group contributes to a Group Personal Pension defined contribution scheme available to all staff of which 1,451 employees participated in the scheme at 31 December 2016 2015: 1,548.
The pension cost charge for the period represents contributions payable by the Group to the scheme and amounted to 2.2m 2015: 2.2m.
There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at either the beginning or end of the financial year.
b Capital commitments The Group has entered into the following contracts for assets which have not been provided for at the balance sheet date: As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Fixed asset acquisitions contracted for but not provided in these consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.4 c Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessee The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Not later than 1 year 2.3 3.6 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 13.7 11.8 Later than 5 years 30.1 21.8 Total minimum lease payments payable 46.1 37.2 d Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessor The future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Not later than 1 year 0.1 0.2 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 0.0 0.4 Later than 5 years Total minimum lease payments receivable 0.1 0.6 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 119 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 29.
Group subsidiary companies esure Group plc has the following principal subsidiaries as at 31 December 2016: Class of shares Held directly Percentage Country of incorporation held Principal activity or indirectly held esure Insurance Limited England and Wales Ordinary General insurance Indirect 100% esure Services Limited England and Wales Ordinary Administration and Indirect 100% management esure Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Indirect 100% esure Property Limited England and Wales Ordinary Property investment Indirect 100% esure Finance Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Direct 100% esure Property Management Limited England and Wales Ordinary Non-trading Indirect 100% esure S. L. U. Spain Ordinary Non-trading Indirect 100% esure broker limited England and Wales Ordinary Insurance intermediary Indirect 100% The registered office of all of the subsidiaries above, apart from esure S. L. U. is The Observatory, Reigate, Surrey, RH2 0SG.
The registered office of esure S. L. U. is Ronda Sant Pere 17, 2 plant, Barcelona, Spain.
All of the subsidiaries above are included in the consolidation of esure Group plc.
esure Property Management Limited and esure S. L. U. are dormant and are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 to prepare annual financial statements.
Related party transactions The following transactions took place with related parties during the year: a Commissions and fees receivable for introducing insurance business: Prior to the acquisition of Gocompare.
com on 31 March 2015 after which Gocompare.
com was part of the Group, the Group received commissions and fees for customer introduction services provided to Gocompare.
com for introducing insurance business.
The value of transactions during the period to 31 March 2015 was 0.0m.
The amount receivable as at 31 March 2015 was 0.0m.
These transactions arose in the normal course of business through fixed fees, and were based on arms length arrangements.
Post demerger these transactions are included as transactions with shareholders and are disclosed below.
b Commissions and fees payable for introducing insurance business: Prior to the acquisition of Gocompare.
com was part of the Group, the Group paid commissions and fees for customer introduction services provided by Gocompare.
The value of transactions during the period to 31 March 2015 was 1.6m.
The amount payable as at 31 March 2015 was 0.5m.
These transactions arose in the normal course of obtaining insurance business through brokerages, and were based on arms length arrangements.
Post demerger these transactions are included as transactions with shareholders and are disclosed on page 121.
120 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials 30.
Related party transactions continued c Transactions with shareholders The following transactions took place with shareholders and related entities: One of the Directors has a beneficial part ownership interest in two companies which leased office space from the Group.
The company also charged the Group for travel expenses incurred by employees of the Group.
Eight of the Directors hold shares in Gocompare.
com post demerger which pays commissions and charges fees for introducing insurance business.
One of the Directors has a beneficial part ownership interest in a restaurant which has been used by the Group for corporate events and entertaining purposes.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 m m Value of expense income for the year: Lease of office space net of travel expenses charged 0.2 0.2 Net fees charged by Gocompare.
com Ltd 1.6 See 30 a Restaurants 0.1 0.1 Total expense income for the year 1.5 0.1 Amount receivable payable at the year end: Lease of office space net of travel expenses charged 0.1 0.1 Net fees payable to Gocompare.
com Ltd 0.7 See 30 b Restaurants 0.0 Total amount payable receivable at the year end 0.6 0.1 d Compensation of key management personnel The key management personnel are considered to be the Directors.
Please refer to the Directors remuneration report for more details.
Subsequent events On 27 February 2017, the Lord Chancellor changed the Ogden discount rate from plus 2.5% to minus 0.75%, effective 20 March 2017.
As at 31 December 2016, the Groups reserve margin included an allowance for a change in the discount rate to 0%.
The impact on the Groups performance from a change in the discount rate is outlined below: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2016 Year ended 31 Dec 2016 Discount 31 Dec 2017 Discount rate rate 2.5% to Impact from 2.5% to 0% -0.75% 2016 m m m Gross reserves 56.3 88.3 32.0 Reserves, net of reinsurance 1.8 2.5 0.7 Profit after tax nil 0.6 0.6 The Group has not adjusted its 2016 financial position to take into account the discount rate moving to minus 0.75%, beyond the 0% allowed for within its reserve margin as at 31 December 2016.
The effect is immaterial on profit after tax.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 121
