COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Current income tax balances for 2015 have been re-presented to reflect 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a reclassification from assets to liabilities amounting to 1.8m.
These GENERAL INFORMATION reclassifications have no impact on net assets.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC the company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom UK.
Deferred income balances have been re-presented to reflect a reclassification of deferred income of 6m from current assets to nonThe group financial statements consolidate those of the company and current assets.
These reclassifications have no impact on net assets.
its subsidiaries together referred to as the group and equity account the groups interest in associates and joint ventures.
The parent company A SUBSIDIARIES financial statements present information about the entity and not about The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the company its group.
and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries.
The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect the directors in accordance with the International Financial Reporting those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and, therefore, consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The company has elected They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on Judgements made by the directors in the application of those accounting transactions between group companies are eliminated.
policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and The group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, business combinations.
The amount recognised as consideration by are discussed in note 2. the group equates to the fair value of the assets, liabilities and equity acquired by the group plus contingent consideration should there Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable to the group financial be any such arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as statements in future years.
Set out below are those which are considered incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent to be most relevant to the group.
liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at acquisition.
The group recognises any non-controlling RELEVANT NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND interest in the acquiree at fair value.
INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT EFFECTIVE SUBSEQUENT TO THE YEAR END: To the extent the consideration including the assumed contingent IFRS 9 Financial Instruments subject to EU endorsement, the expected consideration provided by the acquirer is greater than the fair value mandatory effective date of implementation is January 1 2018 of the assets and liabilities, this amount is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill also incorporates the amount of any non-controlling interest IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers subject to EU in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity endorsement, the expected mandatory effective date of implementation interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the groups share of the is January 1 2018 identifiable net assets acquired.
If this consideration is lower than the IFRS 16 Leases subject to EU endorsement, the expected mandatory fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is effective date of implementation is January 1 2019 recognised as negative goodwill directly in the Income Statement.
Amendments to IAS 38 on Intangible Assets If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the group Annual Improvements 20122014 Cycle reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the The directors are still assessing the impact of these standards but do not measurement period, or additional asset and liabilities are recognised expect there to be a material impact on the financial statements of the to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that group.
existed as of the date of the acquisition that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition except for certain financial instruments which have been measured at to the date the group obtains complete information about facts and fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is a maximum consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement, the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing this Annual Report.
74 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the net 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities PARTIAL ACQUISITIONS CONTROL UNAFFECTED of the joint venture or associate recognised at the date of acquisition Where the group acquires an additional interest in an entity in which is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying a controlling interest is already held, the consideration paid for the amount of the investment.
additional interest is reflected within movements in equity as a reduction in non-controlling interests.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES FUNCTIONAL AND PRESENTATION CURRENCY STEP ACQUISITIONS CONTROL PASSES TO THE GROUP Where a business combination is achieved in stages, at the stage at The functional and presentation currency of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and its UK subsidiaries, other than Fantfoot Limited, which control passes to the group, the previously held interest is treated as if it had been disposed of, along with the consideration paid for the Centre for Investor Education UK Limited and Redquince Limited, is sterling.
The functional currency of other subsidiaries, associates, joint controlling interest in the subsidiary.
The fair value of the previously held interest then forms one of the components that is used to calculate ventures and available-for-sale investments is the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate.
goodwill, along with the consideration and the non-controlling interest less the fair value of identifiable net assets.
The consideration paid for TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES the earlier stages of a step acquisition, before control passes to the Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange group, is treated as an investment in an associate.
ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates B TRANSACTIONS WITH NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Transactions with non-controlling interests in the net assets of ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on foreign currency borrowings and derivative instruments, to the extent that they consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately and included in the groups equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those are used to provide a hedge against the groups equity investments in overseas undertakings, are taken to equity together with the exchange interests at the date of the original business combination and its share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive difference arising on the net investment in those undertakings.
All other exchange differences are taken to the Income Statement.
income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translations of the net investment in foreign entities and borrowings and other currency C INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES instruments designated as hedges such as investments are taken to A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the group and shareholders equity.
The group treats specific inter-company loan other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint balances, which are not intended to be repaid in the foreseeable future, control, that is, when the strategic financial and operating policy as part of its net investment.
decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
GROUP COMPANIES The Income Statements of overseas operations are translated into An associate is an entity over which the group has significant influence sterling at the weighted average exchange rates for the year and their and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
balance sheets are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences arising on consolidation operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint are taken to equity.
In the event of the disposal of an operation, the control over those policies.
related cumulative translation differences are recognised in the Income The post-tax results of joint ventures and associates are incorporated in Statement in the period of disposal.
the groups results using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures and associates are carried PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost as adjusted Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated for post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
the joint venture and associates, less any impairment in the value of Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straightthe investment.
Losses of joint ventures and associates in excess of the line basis over their expected useful lives at the following rates per year: groups interest in that joint venture or associate are not recognised.
Additional losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to Freehold land do not depreciate the extent that the group has incurred legal or constructive obligations Freehold buildings 2% or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Long-term leasehold premises over term of lease Losses of joint ventures and associates in excess of the groups interest Short-term leasehold premises over term of lease in that joint venture or associate are not recognised.
Additional losses Office equipment 11% 33% are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued For all other intangible assets, the group initially makes an assessment INTANGIBLE ASSETS of their fair value at acquisition.
An intangible asset will be recognised GOODWILL as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
over the net fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Subsequent to acquisition, amortisation is charged so as to write off the Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently measured costs of other intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, using at cost less accumulated impairment.
For the purposes of impairment a straight-line or reducing balance method.
These intangible assets are testing, goodwill is allocated to those cash generating units that have reviewed for impairment as described below.
Assets are grouped at the lowest level for These intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The carrying value of impairment losses.
goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually or where there is an indication that goodwill may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount AMORTISATION of the cash generating unit is less than its carrying amount, then the Amortisation of intangible assets is provided on a reducing balance basis impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the or straight-line basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives at the goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit following rates per year: on a pro rata basis.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and may not subsequently be reversed.
On disposal of Trademarks and brands 5 30 years a subsidiary undertaking, the attributable amount of goodwill is included Customer relationships 1 16 years in the determination of the profit and loss on disposal.
Databases 1 22 years Goodwill arising on foreign subsidiary investments held in the Licences and software 3 5 years consolidated balance sheet are retranslated into sterling at the applicable period end exchange rates.
Any exchange differences arising are taken IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS directly to equity as part of the retranslation of the net assets of the Assets that have an indefinite useful life for example, goodwill or subsidiary.
intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts having been tested circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets GAAP before October 1 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the INTERNALLY GENERATED INTANGIBLE ASSETS lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash An internally generated intangible asset arising from the groups software generating units.
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, that suffer and systems development is recognised only if all of the following impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each conditions are met: reporting date.
An asset is created that can be identied such as software or a website : TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount, benets: and less provision for impairment.
A provision is made and charged to the Income Statement when there is objective evidence that the group will The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
not be able to collect all amounts due in accordance to the original Internally generated intangible assets are recognised at cost and terms.
More information on impairment is included in the impairment of amortised on a straight-line basis over the useful lives from the date the financial assets section below.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS in the period in which it is incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash, short-term deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
76 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Available-for-sale AFS financial assets 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued AFS financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value where it can FINANCIAL ASSETS be measured reliably.
AFS equity investments that do not have a quoted The group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, measured are measured at cost less any identified impairment losses.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets were acquired.
Management determines OFFSETTING FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS the classification of its assets on initial recognition and re-evaluates this Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets in the following the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the categories are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or 12 months: otherwise, they are classified as non-current.
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
CLASSIFICATION IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss The group assesses at each reporting period whether there is objective Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition unless they are designated as hedges.
of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of Loans and receivables financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The The criteria that the group uses to determine that there is objective groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and evidence of an impairment loss include: cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: Available-for-sale AFS financial assets AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or category or not classified in any of the other categories.
principal payments: the group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers RECOGNITION AND MEASUREMENT financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the lender would not otherwise consider: date on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
The group derecognises financial assets when it ceases to be a party to such it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other arrangements.
All financial assets, other than those carried at fair value financial reorganisation: through profit or loss, are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because costs.
of financial difficulties: or Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially estimate of future cash ows from a portfolio of financial assets since recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the profit the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Gains yet be identied with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets including: at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the profit and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the i. adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the portfolio: period in which they arise.
Dividend income from assets, categorised as and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, is recognised in the ii.
national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults profit and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income on the assets in the portfolio.
as part of other income when the groups right to receive payments is established.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED a. hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued commitment fair value hedge : The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists.
b. hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted c. hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
amount is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
If a The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any asset or liability when the derivative matures in more than 12 months, impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under and as a current asset or liability when the derivative matures in less the contract.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments If the assets carrying amount is reduced, the amount of the loss is that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of Statement as they arise.
Fair value hedge If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement, together the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss attributable to the hedged risk.
The group only applies fair value hedge is recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of accounting for hedging fixed interest risk on borrowings.
The gain or Comprehensive Income.
loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement within finance FINANCIAL LIABILITIES costs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in RECOGNITION the Income Statement within operating profit.
Changes in the fair value Financial liabilities are recognised when the group becomes a party of the hedge fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument.
The group recognised in the Income Statement within finance costs.
derecognises financial liabilities when it ceases to be a party to such Cash flow hedge provisions.
The effective portion of gains or losses on derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive COMMITTED BORROWINGS AND BANK OVERDRAFTS Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amounts income within the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement received, net of direct issue costs.
Direct issue costs are amortised over the period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate.
charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Income Statement charged to the Income Statement as incurred using the effective interest in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income rate method and are added to the carrying value of the borrowings or Statement for example, when the forecast transaction that is hedged overdraft to the extent they are not settled in the period in which they takes place.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps TRADE PAYABLES AND ACCRUALS hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement Trade payables and accruals are not interest-bearing and are stated at accordingly, the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is their fair value.
recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
However, whenever the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS a non-financial asset for example, fixed assets, the gains and losses The group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks, including forward the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
are ultimately recognised in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
All derivative instruments are recorded in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value.
The recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The group designates certain derivatives as either: 78 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income asset is realised based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items transferred to the Income Statement.
charged or credited directly to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Net investment hedge Income and equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and equity.
same way as cash flow hedges.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities recognised in other comprehensive income together with the gains and and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation losses on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such authority and the group intends to settle its current assets and liabilities gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
The group does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign Actual tax liabilities or refunds may differ from those anticipated due to subsidiaries.
Fluctuations in the value of sterling versus foreign currencies changes in tax legislation, differing interpretations of tax legislation and could materially affect the amount of these items in the consolidated uncertainties surrounding the application of tax legislation.
In situations financial statements, even if their values have not changed in their where uncertainties exist, provision is made for contingent tax liabilities original currency.
The group does endeavour to match foreign currency and assets when it is more likely than not that there will be a cash impact.
borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the These provisions are made for each uncertainty individually on the basis translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
of management judgement following consideration of the available relevant information.
The measurement basis adopted represents the Gains and losses accumulated in equity are transferred to the Income best predictor of the resolution of the uncertainty which is usually based Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
on the most likely cash outflow.
The company reviews the adequacy of these provisions at the end of each reporting period and adjusts them LIABILITIES IN RESPECT OF ACQUISITION COMMITMENTS AND based on changing facts and circumstances.
The group does not consider DEFERRED CONSIDERATION detection risk when making its estimates.
Liabilities for acquisition commitments over the remaining minority interests in subsidiaries and deferred consideration are recorded in the PROVISIONS Statement of Financial Position at their estimated discounted present A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has value.
These discounts are unwound and charged to the Income a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, Statement as notional interest over the period up to the date of the and it is probable that economic benefits will be required to settle the potential future payment.
If material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market TAXATION assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is risks specific to the liability.
recognised in the Income Statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
PENSIONS Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at Contributions to pension schemes in respect of current and past service, amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws ex-gratia pensions, and cost of living adjustments to existing pensions that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
are based on the advice of independent actuaries.
Deferred taxation is calculated under the provisions of IAS 12 Income DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS Tax and is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding tax bases fixed contributions into a separate non-group related entity.
Payments used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the to the Euromoney Pension Plan and the Metal Bulletin Group Personal balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for Pension Plan, both defined contribution pension schemes, are charged taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to as an expense as they fall due.
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries or associates where the group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference is not foreseeable.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED Subscription revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on a 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued straight-line basis over the period of the subscription.
Subscription Multi-employer scheme revenues contains certain items recognised on a cash basis including The group also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined voting revenues where the amount paid by the customer is determined benefit pension scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General by a qualitative vote and paid in arrears for services rendered, and Trust plc.
Up to September 30 2016 there was no contractual agreement best efforts revenues where the payments for services rendered are or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost for the plan uncertain until received.
as a whole to the individual entities, the group recognised an expense equal to its contributions payable in the period and did not recognise any Sponsorship and delegate revenues are recognised in the Income unfunded liability of this pension scheme on its balance sheet.
In other Statement over the period the event is run.
words, this scheme was treated as a defined contribution plan.
However, due to a change in policy by DMGT the assets and liabilities of the DMGT Revenues invoiced but relating to future periods are deferred and treated groups defined benefit plan have been allocated on a buy-out basis at as deferred income in the Statement of Financial Position.
LEASED ASSETS DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership Defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Operating employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in respect DIVIDENDS of the defined benefit pension plan is the present value of the defined Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by in the period in which they are paid.
independent actuaries using the projected credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting OWN SHARES HELD BY EMPLOYEES SHARE OWNERSHIP the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality TRUST AND EMPLOYEES SHARE TRUST corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the Transactions of the group-sponsored trusts are included in the group benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to financial statements.
In particular, the trusts holdings of shares in the the terms of the related pension obligation.
The actuarial valuations are company are debited direct to equity.
The group provides finance to the obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
trusts to purchase company shares to meet the obligation to provide Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and shares when employees exercise their options or awards.
Costs of changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the Statement running the trusts are charged to the Income Statement.
Shares held by of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they occur.
the trusts are deducted from other reserves.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
EARNINGS PER SHARE The earnings per share and diluted earnings per share calculations SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS follow the provisions of IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
The diluted earnings The group makes share-based payments to certain employees which are per share figure is calculated by adjusting for the dilution effect of the equity and cash-settled.
These payments are measured at their estimated exercise of all ordinary share options, SAYE options and the Capital fair value at the date of grant, calculated using an appropriate option Appreciation Plan options granted by the company, but excluding the pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on ordinary shares held by the Euromoney Employees Share Ownership a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of the Trust and Euromoney Employee Share Trust.
number of shares that will eventually vest.
At the end of each period the vesting assumptions are revisited and the charge associated with the fair EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS value of these options updated.
For cash-settled share-based payments a Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being current fair value as determined at each balance sheet date.
significant and which require additional disclosure in order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of the group.
Such REVENUE items could include, but may not be limited to, costs associated with Revenue represents income from advertising, subscriptions, sponsorship business combinations, one-off gains and losses on the disposal of and delegate fees, net of value added tax.
businesses and properties, one-off reorganisation or restructuring costs Advertising revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on the associated with major restructuring programmes, and impairment of date of publication.
goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
80 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES IMPAIRMENT Goodwill is impaired where the carrying value of goodwill is higher than SEGMENT REPORTING the net present value of future cash flows of those cash generating units Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal to which it relates.
Key areas of judgement in calculating the net present reporting provided to the board and executive committee members who value are the forecast cash flows, the long-term growth rate of the are responsible for strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing applicable businesses and the discount rate applied to those cash flows.
performance of the operating segments.
Goodwill held on the Statement of Financial Position at September30 2016 was 396.1m 2015: 382.0m.
2 KEY JUDGEMENTAL AREAS ADOPTED IN PREPARING INVESTMENTS THESE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investments are impaired where the carrying value of an investment is In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often higher than the net present value of the future cash flows.
Key areas required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, of judgement in calculating the net present value are the forecast cash accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect flows, the long-term growth rate of the applicable businesses and the the reported results or net asset position of the group should it later be discount rate applied to those cash flows.
Investments held on the determined that a different choice would have been more appropriate.
Statement of Financial Position at September 30 2016 was 35.9m Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions 2015: 38.3m.
discussed below to be its key judgemental areas and accordingly provides an explanation of each below.
Management has discussed its critical TAXATION accounting estimates and associated disclosures with the groups audit The groups tax expense on profit is the sum of the total current and committee.
The discussion below should be read in conjunction with the deferred tax expense.
The calculation of the groups total tax charge groups disclosure of accounting policies in note 1. necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined ACQUISITIONS until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary or business appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some is allocated over the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow contingent liabilities acquired with any excess consideration representing variances.
Determining the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent The group is a multinational with tax affairs in many geographical liabilities acquired requires significant estimates and assumptions.
This inherently leads to complexity in the groups tax structure group recognises intangible assets acquired as part of a business at fair and makes the degree of estimation and judgement challenging.
The value at the date of acquisition.
The determination of these fair values resolution of issues is not always within the control of the group and it is based upon managements judgement and includes assumptions on is often dependent on the efficiency of the legislative processes in the the timing and amount of future cash flows generated by the assets and relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the group operates.
Issues can, and the selection of an appropriate discount rate.
Additionally, management often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities must estimate the expected useful lives of intangibles assets and charge for an accounting period include payments on account and depend on amortisation on the assets accordingly.
the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax expense in the Income Statement and tax ACQUISITION COMMITMENTS The group is party to put and call options over the remaining nonpayments.
controlling interests in some of its subsidiaries.
IAS 32 Financial The group has significant open items in several tax jurisdictions and as Instruments: Presentation requires the discounted present value of a result the amounts recognised in the group financial statements in these acquisition commitments to be recognised as a liability on the respect of these items are derived from the groups best estimation and Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding decrease in judgement.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of reserves.
Each period end management reassesses the amount expected these items means eventual resolution could differ from the accounting to be paid and any changes to the initial amount are recognised as a estimates and therefore affect the groups results and cash flows.
finance income or expense in the Income Statement.
The discounts are unwound as a notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
The group considers each uncertain tax matter on the technical merits Key areas of judgement in calculating the discounted present value of of the case in law, taking into account all relevant evidence, including these commitments are the expected future cash flows and earnings of the known attitude of tax authorities in making an assessment of the the business, the period remaining until the option is exercised and the likelihood a matter will crystallise.
The uncertain tax provisions are discount rate.
At September 30 2016, the discounted present value of calculated by determining the single most likely cash flow for each issue these acquisition commitments was 11.8m 2015: 9.2m rather than by applying a probability threshold and this methodology has been applied consistently year-on-year.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 2 KEY JUDGEMENTAL AREAS ADOPTED IN PREPARING PRESENTATION OF ADJUSTED PERFORMANCE The directors believe that the adjusted profit and earnings per share THESE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued measures provide additional useful information for shareholders on DIRECT TAX evaluating the performance of the business.
These measures are There are two main areas of direct tax risk within the group as follows: consistent with how business performance is measured internally.
The adjusted profit before tax measure is not a recognised profit measure Permanent establishment risk: the group operates in multiple under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with adjusted profit jurisdictions and has internationally mobile employees.
There is a risk measures used by other companies.
Adjusted figures are presented before that operating activities could inadvertently create a taxable presence the impact of amortisation of acquired intangible assets comprising in countries where the group does not have an entity.
The group trademarks and brands, databases and customer relationships, proactively manages this risk and has a transfer pricing policy in place exceptional items, share of acquired intangibles amortisation and for intercompany transactions.
It held an uncertain tax provision at exceptional items, tax in associates and joint ventures, and net September 30 2016 of 2.6m 2015: 2.9m in respect of this risk.
movements in deferred consideration and acquisition commitments.
In Challenges by tax authorities: where arrangements that have been respect of earnings, adjusted amounts reflect a tax rate that includes adopted on the basis of professional advice are challenged by tax the current tax effect of the goodwill and intangible assets.
Many of authorities and there is an expectation that there is more likely than the groups acquisitions, particularly in the US, give rise to significant not to be a cash outow, this risk is provided for.
The group held a tax savings as the amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets on provision in respect of this risk at September 30 2016 of 9.9m 2015: acquisition is deductible for tax purposes.
The group considers that the 9.8m.
The group had been challenged on: whether certain business resulting adjusted effective tax rate is therefore more representative of its disposals should give rise to capital gains: a number of internal tax payable position.
The group has consistently applied this definition of nancing arrangements between different jurisdictions that give rise adjusted measures as it has reported on its financial performance in the to asymmetrical tax outcomes: and whether tax deductions taken for past and it is the groups intention to continue to consistently apply this costs arising within the groups treasury function are permissible.
A reconciliation is set out in the appendix to the Chief Executives Statement on pages 6 and 7.
The maximum potential additional exposure for the group in relation to uncertain tax positions not provided for is approximately 22m if CENTRE FOR INVESTOR EDUCATION LIMITED CIE all cases were to be settled at the maximum potential liability.
Given In April 2013 the group acquired a 75% equity interest in CIE for a final the number of discrete exposures this relates to and the nature of the consideration of 10.2m, with a commitment to acquire the remaining uncertainties involved, the probability of this maximum outflow outcome 25% by early 2016.
As part of the local statutory audit of CIE for the arising is very remote.
year to September 30 2014, a number of governance and financial irregularities were identified which remain subject to legal resolution.
INDIRECT TAX As a result of these irregularities, the former owner-managers of CIE At September 30 2016, an incremental provision of 7.9m including were replaced and a number of adjustments were made to the groups interest was recognised as an exceptional item note 5 increasing the investment in CIE.
In October 2015, the group filed a public statement groups provisions, including interest, to 9.5m.
These uncertain tax of claim against the previous owners for breaches of warranties and positions represent the maximum estimated liability in relation to a other damages.
The group in preparation of these financial statements potential overseas sales tax exposure based on an adverse tax ruling.
at September 30 2016 has examined all evidence, including its own In addition, the group has gone through a process of reviewing and management investigation and Deloitte & Touche LLP Australias assessing indirect tax exposure across the group in the year and a further findings, in reaching the conclusion that no further amounts are payable 4.2m provision is the groups best estimate of the most probable under the share purchase agreement for CIE. outflow relating to these exposures.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES The surplus or deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme that is recognised through the Statement of Comprehensive Income is subject to a number of assumptions and uncertainties.
The calculated liabilities of the scheme are based on assumptions regarding salary increases, inflation rates, discount rates, the long-term expected return on the schemes assets and member longevity.
Details of the assumptions used are shown in note 27.
Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and are benchmarked against similar pension schemes.
82 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Segmental information is presented in respect of the groups business divisions and reflects the groups management and internal reporting structure.
The directors have restated the segmental information to reflect the changes in the groups operations following the implementation of the new group strategy.
The group is organised into four business divisions: Asset management: Pricing, data and market intelligence: Banking and finance: and Commodity events.
Asset management and pricing, data and market intelligence consist primarily of subscription revenue.
Banking and finance consists mainly of both sponsorship income and delegates revenue.
Commodity events consists primarily of delegates revenue.
A breakdown of the groups revenue by type is set out below.
In April 2016, the group disposed of 100% of the equity share capital of Gulf Publishing Company, Inc. Gulf and The Petroleum Economist Limited PE.
As a result segment information from the disposal of Gulf and PE has been reclassified as sold closed businesses and the comparative split of divisional revenues, revenue by type and operating profits have been restated.
Analysis of the groups three main geographical areas is also set out to provide additional information on the trading performance of the businesses.
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates and shown in the eliminations columns.
2 Acquired intangible amortisation represents amortisation of acquisition-related non-goodwill assets such as trademarks and brands, customer relationships and databases note 12.
84 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Acquired Long-term intangible incentive Exceptional Depreciation amortisation credit items and amortisation 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Other segmental information by division: Asset management 10,189 9,950 324 10,810 9,683 1,458 940 Pricing, data and market intelligence 3,862 4,470 9,222 989 323 275 Banking and finance 209 193 280 30 7 13 Commodity events 2,186 1,810 13,056 10,699 65 31 Sold closed businesses 7,094 2,429 13 25 Unallocated corporate costs income 287 604 2,166 10,990 52,393 4,615 4,039 16,733 17,027 2,490 37,264 33,421 6,481 5,323 United Kingdom North America Rest of World Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-current assets excluding derivative financial instruments, deferred consideration and deferred tax assets by location: Goodwill 99,751 122,037 288,680 253,560 7,674 6,396 396,105 381,993 Other intangible assets 66,519 64,773 86,972 83,913 1,543 700 155,034 149,386 Property, plant and equipment 6,894 7,274 2,785 1,340 793 557 10,472 9,171 Investments 35,860 38,302 35,860 38,302 Non-current assets 209,024 232,386 378,437 338,813 10,010 7,653 597,471 578,852 Additions to property, plant and equipment 993 5,622 2,275 493 494 372 3,762 6,487 The group has taken advantage of paragraph 23 of IFRS 8 Operating Segments and does not provide segmental analysis of net assets as this information is not used by the directors in operational decision making or monitoring of business performance.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 4 OPERATING PROFIT 2016 2015 000 000 Revenue 403,112 403,412 107,815 107,488 Cost of sales Gross profit 295,297 295,924 Distribution costs 2,768 3,278 Administrative expenses 245,076 169,528 Operating profit 47,453 123,118 Administrative expenses include items separately disclosed in exceptional items of 37.3m 2015: credit of 33.4m note 5.
Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2016 2015 000 000 Staff costs note 6 164,814 158,381 Intangible amortisation: Acquired intangible amortisation 16,733 17,027 Licences and software 3,675 2,680 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,806 2,643 Property operating lease rentals 10,111 8,961 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 13 Exceptional items note 5 : Profit on disposal of associate 2,921 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 45,502 Profit on disposal of business 7,094 2,446 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,181 Goodwill impairment 26,987 18,458 Intangibles impairment 1,652 Investment in associate impairment 111 Provision for sales tax 7,851 Recognition of defined benefit scheme 1,249 Restructuring and other exceptional costs 6,508 3,171 Foreign exchange gain loss 1,921 2,449 Audit and non-audit services relate to: 2016 2015 000 000 Group audit: Fees payable for the audit of the groups annual accounts 714 509 Fees payable for other services to the group: Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to local legislation 334 250 1,048 759 Assurance services: 128 119 Audit related assurance services Non-audit services: Taxation compliance services 33 16 Other taxation advisory services 67 63 Other services 92 34 192 113 Total group auditors remuneration 1,368 991 86 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being significant and which require additional disclosure in order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of the group.
2016 2015 000 000 Profit on disposal of associate 2,921 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 45,502 Profit on disposal of business and recycled cumulative translation differences 7,094 2,446 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,181 7,094 55,050 Goodwill impairment 26,987 18,458 Intangibles impairment 1,652 Investment in associate impairment 111 Provision for overseas sales tax 7,851 Recognition of deficit on defined benefit scheme 1,249 Restructuring and other exceptional costs 6,508 3,171 37,264 33,421 For the year ended September 30 2016 the group recognised an exceptional charge of 37.3m.
In April 2016, the group sold 100% of the equity share capital of Gulf Publishing Company, Inc. Gulf and The Petroleum Economist Limited PE which gave rise to a profit on disposal of 7.1m note 15.
The group recognised a goodwill impairment charge of 12.9m 2015: 10.7m relating to Mining Indaba in the half year results.
This was due to the continued challenging market conditions and the depreciation of the South African Rand, having a significant impact on the long-term outlook for this business.
A goodwill impairment charge of 5.9m relates to HedgeFund Intelligence HFI, the groups information and events business serving the hedge fund industry.
The intangibles impairment charge of 1.7m relates to Euromoney Indices.
HFI and Euromoney Indices have been classified as assets held for sale note 11.
The goodwill and intangibles have been valued at fair value less cost to sell resulting in the impairment.
The remaining 8.2m charge for goodwill impairment relates to Total Derivatives, the prime source of real-time news and analysis of the global fixed income derivatives markets.
The continued challenging market conditions for this sector has had a significant impact on the long-term outlook for this business.
During the year, the group acquired a further 17% of the equity share capital of World Bulk Wine increasing the groups equity shareholding to 57%.
The transfer from associate to a subsidiary resulted in an impairment of associate of 0.1m note 15.
The provision for overseas sales tax of 7.9m reflects the groups best estimate of the additional provision required for a potential sales tax exposure including interest relating to prior periods following an adverse tax ruling in June 2016.
The group is in the process of challenging this judgement.
At September 30 2016, the group recognised its share of the deficit in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme HPS, a defined benefit scheme.
This is the result of the change in accounting policy by the groups parent company, Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, to allocate the assets and liabilities of the DMGT groups defined benefit plan on a buy-out basis note 27.
Restructuring and other exceptional costs mostly comprise one-off costs incurred as a result of the strategic review undertaken during the year and professional fees from the legal dispute with the previous owners of Centre for Investor Education CIE.
The costs relating to the strategic review include one-off acquisition and integration costs note 15, the major reorganisation of certain businesses and other professional fees relating to development of the groups new strategy.
The groups tax charge includes a related tax credit on these exceptional items of 5.3m note 8.
For the year ended September 30 2015 the group recognised an exceptional credit of 33.4m.
The group disposed of its interests in a number of assets generating a gain on sale of 55.1m.
Most of this relates to the sale of groups interests in Capital DATA and Capital NET as part of the Dealogic transaction.
The goodwill impairment charge consists of HFI 4.8m, CIE 3.0m and Mining Indaba 10.7m.
Restructuring and other exceptional costs cover the major reorganisation of certain businesses, costs relating to the relocation of the groups London headquarters, and professional fees resulting from the CIE dispute.
The groups tax charge includes a related tax charge on these exceptional items of 1.0m note 8.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 6 STAFF COSTS i Number of staff including directors and temporary staff 2016 2015 Monthly Monthly average average By business segment: Asset management 631 595 Pricing, data and market intelligence 902 893 Banking and finance 293 314 Commodity events 87 83 Central 349 435 2,262 2,320 2016 2015 Monthly Monthly average average By geographical location: United Kingdom 890 923 North America 731 741 Rest of World 641 656 2,262 2,320 ii Staff costs including directors and temporary staff 2016 2015 000 000 Wages and salaries 148,869 146,944 Social security costs 11,424 10,754 Other pension costs 3,323 3,173 Long-term incentive expense credit 1,198 2,490 164,814 158,381 Details of directors remuneration have been disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 58.
7 FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE 2016 2015 000 000 Finance income Interest on cash deposit with DMGT group company 391 Interest receivable from short-term investments 303 379 Movements in acquisition commitments note 25 4,748 694 5,127 Finance expense Interest payable on committed borrowings with DMGT group company 1,346 1,120 Net interest expense on defined benefit liability note 27 66 170 Movements in acquisition commitments note 25 601 Movements in deferred consideration note 25 2,851 Interest on tax 389 438 2,402 4,579 Net finance costs income 1,708 548 88 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE continued 2016 2015 000 000 Reconciliation of net finance costs income in Income Statement to adjusted net finance costs Total net finance costs income in Income Statement 1,708 548 Add back: Movements in acquisition commitments 601 4,748 2,851 Movements in deferred consideration 601 1,897 Adjusted net finance costs 1,107 1,349 The reconciliation of net finance costs income in the Income Statement has been provided since the directors consider it necessary in order to provide an indication of the adjusted net finance costs.
8 TAX EXPENSE ON PROFIT 2016 2015 000 000 Current tax expense UK corporation tax expense 2,350 7,989 Foreign tax expense 20,682 12,949 Adjustments in respect of prior years 14 1,083 23,018 19,855 Deferred tax expense Current year 11,076 1,764 967 492 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10,109 2,256 Total tax expense in Income Statement 12,909 17,599 Effective tax rate 29% 14% The adjusted effective tax rate for the year is set out below: 2016 2015 000 000 Reconciliation of tax expense in Income Statement to adjusted tax expense Total tax expense in Income Statement 12,909 17,599 Add back: Tax on acquired intangible amortisation 4,397 4,096 Tax on exceptional items 5,267 983 9,664 3,113 Tax on goodwill and intangible amortisation 4,210 4,113 Share of tax on profits of associates and joint ventures 656 716 Adjustments in respect of prior years 953 1,575 5,157 1,291 Adjusted tax expense 18,066 18,890 Adjusted profit before tax refer to the appendix to the Chief Executives Statement 102,529 107,810 Adjusted effective tax rate 18% 18% The group presents the above adjusted effective tax rate to help users of this report better understand its tax charge.
In arriving at this rate, the group removes the tax effect of items which are adjusted for in arriving at the adjusted profit disclosed in the appendix to the Chief Executives Statement.
However, the current tax effect of goodwill and intangible items is not removed.
The current tax benefit of tax deductible goodwill and intangibles is recognised in the adjusted effective tax rate as the group considers that this more accurately reflects its expected cash tax payable position as the deferred tax effect on the goodwill and intangible items is not expected to crystallise.
The deferred tax effect on goodwill and intangible items would only crystallise in the event of a disposal and that is not expected.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 8 TAX EXPENSE ON PROFIT continued The actual tax expense for the year is different from 20% of profit before tax for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 2016 2015 000 000 Profit before tax 43,922 123,285 Tax at 20% 2015: 20.5% 8,784 25,273 Factors affecting tax charge: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in overseas jurisdictions 4,386 4,521 Share of tax on associates and joint ventures 365 84 Non-taxable income 400 6,356 Goodwill and intangibles 2,591 197 Disallowable expenditure 1,964 1,734 Other items deductible for tax purposes 5,340 5,515 Tax impact of consortium relief 544 596 Impact of change in rate 150 Adjustments in respect of prior years 953 1,575 Total tax expense for the year 12,909 17,599 The non-taxable income of 0.4m 2015: 6.4m consists of a non-taxable gain on disposal of shares in a subsidiary.
The prior year non-taxable income of 6.4m mainly consisted of a non-taxable gain on disposal of shares and gains on disposals of fixed assets covered by unrecognised capital losses brought forward partially offset by non-deductible goodwill impairment.
The goodwill and intangibles of 2.6m 2015: 0.2m arises as a result of non-deductible goodwill impairment.
The other items deductible for tax purposes of 5.3m 2015: 5.5m arise as a result of financing arrangements that result in asymmetrical tax treatment in the territories involved.
It arises primarily as a result of debt financing provided to US affiliates.
These items are expected to recur in the short to medium term.
The other items deductible for tax purposes in the prior year of 5.5m arise from the same financing arrangements.
Adjustments in respect of prior years of 1.0m 2015: 1.6m reflect several small items across numerous jurisdictions that mainly relate to changes in estimates.
In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been directly recognised in other comprehensive income and equity: Other comprehensive income Equity 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 Deferred tax note 22 2,664 97 225 492 90 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 DIVIDENDS 2016 2015 000 000 Amounts recognisable as distributable to equity holders in year Final dividend for the year ended September 30 2015 of 16.40p 2014: 16.00p 21,033 20,501 Interim dividend for year ended September 30 2016 of 7.00p 2015: 7.00p 8,981 8,977 30,014 29,478 Employee share trusts dividend 422 414 29,592 29,064 Proposed final dividend for the year ended September 30 21,043 21,033 Employee share trusts dividend 289 296 20,754 20,737 The proposed final dividend of 16.40p 2015: 16.40p is subject to approval at the AGM on January 26 2017 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period.
10 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2016 2015 000 000 Basic earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 30,744 105,444 Adjustments refer to the appendix to the Chief Executives Statement 53,450 16,766 Adjusted earnings 84,194 88,678 2016 2015 Number Number 000 000 Weighted average number of shares 128,280 128,202 1,807 1,807 Shares held by the employee share trusts Weighted average number of shares 126,473 126,395 111 65 Effect of dilutive share options Diluted weighted average number of shares 126,584 126,460 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 24.31 83.42 Adjustments per share 42.26 13.26 Adjusted basic earnings per share 66.57 70.16 Diluted earnings per share 24.29 83.38 42.22 13.26 Adjustments per share Adjusted diluted earnings per share 66.51 70.12 The adjusted diluted earnings per share figure has been disclosed since the directors consider it provides additional useful information on evaluating the performance of the group.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 11 TOTAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF BUSINESSES HELD FOR SALE Following the strategic review, a number of businesses met the IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations criteria to be classified as held for sale at September 30 2016.
These businesses are Institutional Investor Intelligence II Intelligence, Euromoney Indices and HedgeFund Intelligence HFI.
The assets and liabilities of these businesses have been disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The assets and liabilities held for sale were written down to their fair value less costs to sell.
This is a non-recurring fair value which has been measured using indicative prices of other similar businesses, and is therefore within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
None of these businesses met the IFRS 5 criteria to be treated as discontinued operations due to their size and the fact that they do not constitute major lines of the groups business.
On October 31 2016, the group entered into an asset purchase agreement between Institutional Investor LLC and Pageant Media Limited for the sale of assets of II Intelligence for an initial cash consideration of US$0.7m, royalty consideration receivable of up to US$0.3m over a 24 month period from the completion date and will assume the expected deferred income on completion.
The deal is set for completion by the end of November 2016.
This has been disclosed as an event after the balance sheet date note 30.
An intangibles impairment for Euromoney Indices of 1.7m is recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2016 note 5.
For HFI, the groups information and events business serving the hedge fund industry, a goodwill impairment charge of 5.9m has been recognised as an exceptional item note 5.
The main classes of assets and liabilities comprising the businesses classified as held for sale are set out in the table below.
These assets and liabilities are recorded at their fair values.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units CGU that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 12 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES continued The carrying amounts of acquired intangible assets and goodwill by CGU are as follows: Acquired intangible assets Goodwill 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 CEIC 2,217 1,799 16,163 13,916 EMIS 187 175 10,998 9,469 Petroleum Economist 236 Gulf Publishing 5,046 HedgeFund Intelligence HFI 9,886 Information Management Network 2,830 2,656 36,518 31,441 BCA 50,618 48,875 177,681 152,982 Metal Bulletin publishing businesses 16,533 17,992 52,710 52,710 FOW 196 196 Total Derivatives 608 1,044 8,180 TelCap 1,747 1,916 10,448 10,448 Structured Retail Products 1,714 1,908 4,794 4,794 Ned Davis Research NDR 25,480 25,273 44,611 38,410 Global Grain 577 525 4,546 3,889 TTI Vanguard 2,360 2,190 3,540 3,048 Insider Publishing 6,081 6,775 15,280 15,280 Centre for Investor Education 3,264 2,838 2,562 2,021 Euromoney Indices 2,728 IJ Global 4,613 5,118 7,091 7,091 Mining Indaba 17,877 20,016 12,941 Fastmarkets 10,020 7,194 Reinsurance Security 757 1,310 World Bulk Wine 779 454 Other 9 9 148,262 141,828 396,105 381,993 Classified as held for sale Euromoney Indices 313 HedgeFund Intelligence 4,020 Total 148,575 141,828 400,125 381,993 GOODWILL AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLES ASSETS IMPAIRMENT TESTING During the year the goodwill and acquired intangibles assets in respect of each of the above businesses was tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The methodology applied to most CGUs value in use calculations, reflecting past experience and external sources of information, included: budgets by business based on pre-tax cash ows with a CAGR of 2% to 17% for the next four years derived from approved 2016 budgets.
Management believes these budgets to be reasonably achievable: pre-tax discount rates between 12% and 17%, derived from the companys benchmarked weighted average cost of capital WACC of 10.3% adjusted for risks specic to the nature of CGUs and risks included within the cash ows themselves: and long-term nominal growth rate of between 1% and 5%.
94 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES continued The recoverable amounts for HFI and Euromoney Indices were assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model.
This is a non-recurring fair value which has been measured using indicative prices of other similar businesses.
These assets held for sale are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
Following the impairment review, the impairment losses recognised in exceptional items note 5 in respect of goodwill and intangibles are as follows: Goodwill Intangibles Recoverable Discount rate impairment impairment amount 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 CGU Reportable segment 000 000 000 % % Mining Indaba Commodity events 12,941 17,877 15.4% 12.3% HedgeFund Intelligence Asset management 5,866 4,020 12.0% 12.9% Total Derivatives Pricing, data and market intelligence 8,180 608 12.0% 12.9% Euromoney Indices Asset management 1,652 313 12.0% 12.9% Total 26,987 1,652 22,818 The impairment charges have arisen as a result of a deterioration of trading conditions.
GOODWILL SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Further disclosures in accordance with IAS 36 are provided where the group holds an individual goodwill item relating to a CGU that is significant, which the group considers to be 15% of the total net book value, in comparison with the groups total carrying value of goodwill.
The only significant item of goodwill included in the net book value above relate to BCA.
Using the above methodology, a pre-tax discount rate of 13.7% 2015: 12.5% and long-term nominal growth rate of 2% 2015: 2%, the recoverable amount exceeded the total carrying value by 175.8m 2015: 150.4m.
The directors performed a sensitivity analysis on the total carrying value of this CGU.
For the recoverable amount to fall to the carrying value, the discount rate would need to be increased by 10% 2015: 10.2% or the longterm growth rate reduced by 16% 2015: 29%.
For the other CGUs, IAS 36 provides that, if there is any reasonably possible change to a key assumption that would cause the CGUs carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount, further disclosures are required.
For NDR when using the above methodology and a pre-tax discount rate of 14.4% 2015: 13.0% and long-term nominal growth rate of 2% 2015: 2% the recoverable amount exceeded the total carrying value by 15.7m 2015: 9.5m.
Sensitivity analysis performed around the base case assumptions has indicated that for NDR, the following changes in assumptions in isolation, would cause the value in use to fall below the carrying value: the four year pre-tax cash ows decreased by 16% 2015: 12% : the discount rate increased by 3% 2015: 2% : the long-term growth rate reduced by 5% 2015: 4%.
96 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 INVESTMENTS Investment AvailableInvestment in joint for-sale in associates ventures investments Total 000 000 000 000 At October 1 2014 72 72 Additions 32,855 34 5,835 38,724 Disposals 10 10 Share of loss after tax retained 377 4 381 Dividends 123 123 32,437 30 5,835 38,302 At September 30 2015 Repayment additions 52 180 128 Impairment note 5 111 111 Transfer to subsidiary note 15 629 629 Revaluation 12 12 Provision against investment losses 64 64 Share of loss after tax retained 1,752 71 1,823 Dividends 83 83 At September 30 2016 29,810 215 5,835 35,860 All of the above investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in these consolidated financial statements as set out in groups accounting policies in note 1.
2016 2015 000 000 Reconciliation of share of results in associates and joint ventures in Income Statement to adjusted share of results in associates and joint ventures Total share of results in associates and joint ventures in Income Statement 1,823 381 Add back: Share of tax on profits 656 716 Share of tax on acquired intangible amortisation and exceptional items 1,437 632 Share of acquired intangible amortisation 4,427 2,732 1 Share of exceptional items 363 4,009 2,816 Adjusted share of results in associates and joint ventures 2,186 2,435 1 The share of exceptional items relates to one-off restructuring and earn-out costs in Dealogic.
As required by IFRS, it is group policy to treat exceptional earn-out payments as a compensation cost.
These payments are in substance part of the cost of an investment and are thus excluded from the share of adjusted profit.
The reconciliation of share of results in associates and joint ventures in the Income Statement has been provided since the directors consider it necessary in order to provide an indication of the adjusted share of results in associates and joint ventures.
Information on investment in associates, investment in joint ventures and available-for-sale investments: Year Date of Type of Group Country of Principal activity ended acquisition holding interest incorporation Investment in associates Diamond TopCo Limited Dealogic Capital market software solutions Dec 31 Dec 2014 Ordinary 15.5% UK Investment in joint ventures Institutional Investor Zanbato Limited Hedge fund manager trading signals Sept 30 Nov 2014 Ordinary 50.0% UK II Zanbato Sanostro Institutional AG Sanostro Hedge fund manager trading signals Dec 31 Dec 2014 Ordinary 50.0% Switzerland 2 Private capital placement and workflow Sept 30 Nov 2015 Ordinary 50.0% Delaware, US EIIZ Discovery LLC Available-for-sale investments Estimize, Inc Estimize Financial estimates platform Dec 31 July 2015 Ordinary 10.0% Delaware, US Zanbato, Inc Zanbato Private capital placement and workflow Dec 31 Sept 2015 Ordinary 9.9% California, US 2 In November 2015 the group acquired 50% of the equity share capital of EIIZ Discovery LLC for a cash consideration of $0.3m 0.2m.
The group has joint control over the company.
The group interests in the investments remained unchanged since their respective dates of acquisition.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 14 INVESTMENTS continued In June 2016, the group acquired an additional 17% of the equity share capital of World Bulk Wine note 15.
The group previously held an associate interest of 40% of the equity share capital.
The group disposed of its initial associate investment in World Bulk Wine of 40% and has disclosed its increased equity shareholding in World Bulk Wine of 57% as a subsidiary.
Prior to the transfer to subsidiary, a dividend of 83,000 was received from World Bulk Wine.
Set out below is the summarised financial information for Dealogic as at September 30 2016 which in the opinion of the directors is material to the group: 2016 2015 000 000 Summarised balance sheet: Current assets 58,561 26,271 Non-current assets 505,380 494,725 Current liabilities 280,110 263,855 Non-current liabilities 5,286 7,622 Net assets 278,545 249,519 Summarised Statement of Comprehensive Income: Revenue 106,193 75,187 Loss profit from continuing operations 12,960 5,184 Post-tax loss from continuing operations 9,472 2,745 Other comprehensive income expense 294 2,085 Total comprehensive expense 9,178 4,830 Group share of loss after tax 1,726 418 Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in Dealogic recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements: 2016 2015 000 000 Closing net assets 278,545 249,519 Proportion of the groups ownership interest in the associate 43,144 38,675 Restriction of profit applied on acquisition 5,862 5,862 Goodwill 63 128 7,409 1,148 Exchange differences Carrying amount of the groups interest in the associate 29,810 31,537 Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material: 2016 2015 000 000 Group share of loss profit from continuing operations 25 41 Aggregate carrying amount of the groups interests in these associates 900 98 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS PURCHASE OF NEW BUSINESSES Reinsurance Security Consultancy.
Co. UK Limited ReSec On August 1 2016, the group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of ReSec and extended its insurance portfolio into the high-value counterparty risk market, for a cash consideration of 1.7m.
ReSec is a provider of risks ratings for the reinsurance sector.
The acquisition of ReSec is consistent with the groups strategy of expanding its presence and analytics in the global insurance and reinsurance sectors.
The acquisition accounting is set out below and is provisional pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired: Book Fair value Provisional value adjustments fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Intangible assets 770 770 Trade and other payables 209 131 340 209 639 430 Net assets acquired 100% 430 Goodwill 1,310 Total consideration 1,740 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 1,740 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 1,740 Intangible assets represent customer relationships of 0.8m, for which amortisation of 13,000 has been charged for the year.
The customer relationships will be amortised over their useful economic lives of ten years.
Goodwill arises from the anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from integrating the acquired operations within the group.
All of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
ReSec contributed 74,000 to the groups revenue, 40,000 to the groups operating profit and 32,000 to the groups profit after tax for the period between the date of acquisition and September 30 2016.
In addition, acquisition related costs of 67,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2016 note 5.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, ReSec would have contributed 0.5m to the groups revenue and 0.2m to the groups operating profit excluding exceptional costs above.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 15 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS continued FastMarkets Limited FastMarkets On September 2 2016, the group acquired 100% of the shares of FastMarkets, a leading provider of real-time metals market information, for a cash consideration of 13.3m and a deferred consideration of 0.5m note 25.
The acquisition of FastMarkets is consistent with the groups strategy and it enhances the depth of information that Metal Bulletin can provide its clients across the metals and mining markets supply chain.
The acquisition accounting is set out below and is provisional pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired: Book Fair value Provisional value adjustments fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Intangible assets 10,097 10,097 Property, plant and equipment 91 91 Trade and other receivables 680 12 668 Trade and other payables 3,106 1,765 4,871 Cash and cash equivalents 710 710 1,625 8,229 6,604 Net assets acquired 100% 6,604 Goodwill 7,194 Total consideration 13,798 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 13,318 Deferred consideration 480 13,798 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 13,318 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 710 12,608 Intangible assets represent a brand of 3.7m, customer relationships of 5.5m and technology of 0.9m, for which amortisation of 77,000 has been charged for the year.
The brand will be amortised over its useful life of 20 years.
The technology will be amortised over its useful life of five years.
The fair value of the assets acquired includes net trade receivables of 0.5m, all of which are contracted and are expected to be collectable.
FastMarkets contributed 0.4m to the groups revenue, 24,000 to the groups operating profit and 19,000 to the groups profit after tax for the period between the date of acquisition and September 30 2016.
In addition, acquisition related costs of 0.7m were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2016 note 5.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, FastMarkets would have contributed 4.5m to the groups revenue and 0.1m to the groups operating profit excluding exceptional costs above.
TRANSFER TO SUBSIDIARY World Bulk Wine Exhibition, S. L World Bulk Wine In June 2016, the group acquired an additional 17% of the equity share capital of World Bulk Wine, an event for the commercialisation of bulk wine, for a cash consideration of 0.3m 0.3m.
At the acquisition date, the non-controlling interest of 43% is measured using the proportion of net assets method.
The disposal resulted in an impairment of associate of 0.1m which is recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2016 note 5.
The fair value of the associate when disposed of was 0.6m.
100 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS continued The acquisition accounting is set out below and is provisional pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired: Book Fair value Provisional value adjustments fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Intangible assets 1,884 1,157 727 Property, plant and equipment 6 6 Trade and other receivables 89 89 Trade and other payables 320 181 501 Cash and cash equivalents 523 523 2,182 1,338 844 Net assets acquired 57% 481 Goodwill 415 Total consideration 896 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 267 629 Fair value of associate 896 Net cash inflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 267 523 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 256 Intangible assets represent a brand of 0.3m and customer relationships of 0.4m, for which amortisation of 13,000 has been charged for the year.
The fair value of the assets acquired includes trade receivables of 48,000, all of which are contracted and are expected to be collectable.
World Bulk Wine contributed nil to the groups revenue, 2,000 loss to the groups operating profit and 1,000 loss to the groups profit after tax for the period between the date of acquisition and September 30 2016.
The event takes place annually in November.
In addition, the World Bulk Wine impairment of associate of 0.1m and acquisition related costs of 4,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2016 note 5.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, World Bulk Wine would have contributed 0.9m to the groups revenue and 0.3m to the groups operating profit excluding exceptional costs above.
INCREASE IN EQUITY HOLDINGS Ned Davis Research NDR In November 2015, the group acquired 0.47% of the equity of NDR for a cash consideration of $0.4m 0.2m.
The groups equity shareholding in NDR increased to 85.01%.
Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited In May 2016, the group acquired 0.3% of the equity of Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited for a cash consideration of 0.1m.
This transaction was enacted by purchasing 49,900 B ordinary shares of 1 each from DMG Charles Limited.
The groups equity shareholding in Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited increased to 100%.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 15 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS continued SALE OF BUSINESSES Gulf Publishing Company, Inc. Gulf and The Petroleum Economist Limited PE On April 19 2016, the group sold 100% of the equity share capital of Gulf and PE, part of the business publishing division, for a consideration of US$17.2m 12.0m, offset by a working capital adjustment of US$1.3m 1.0m.
At the date of disposal deferred consideration of US$0.8m 0.5m was recognised note 25.
In September 2016 deferred consideration of US$0.3m 0.2m was paid in addition to an amount of US$0.3m 0.2m which was paid to adjust for the original working capital adjustment.
The disposal of Gulf and PE gave rise to a profit on disposal of US$10.2m 7.1m, after deducting disposal costs incurred, which was recognised as an exceptional item note 5 in the Income Statement.
The net assets of Gulf and PE at the date of disposal were as follows: Final Gulf PE fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Goodwill 5,046 236 5,282 Property, plant and equipment 27 27 Trade and other receivables 1,011 252 1,263 Bank overdraft 21 21 Trade and other payables 252 126 378 Deferred income 646 760 1,406 5,165 398 4,767 Net assets disposed 100% 5,165 398 4,767 Directly attributable costs 268 77 345 Recycled cumulative translation differences 636 636 5,360 1,734 7,094 Profit on disposal note 5 Total consideration 10,157 1,413 11,570 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 9,832 2,258 12,090 Working capital adjustments 17 953 970 Deferred consideration 342 108 450 10,157 1,413 11,570 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Cash consideration net of working capital adjustments and directly attributable costs 9,547 1,228 10,775 Cash and cash equivalent balances disposed 21 21 9,568 1,228 10,796 16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2016 2015 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year Trade receivables 58,501 59,084 5,270 5,441 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables Trade receivables - net of provision 53,231 53,643 Amounts owed by DMGT group undertakings 192 Other debtors 7,585 6,801 Prepayments 10,213 7,451 Accrued income 2,462 1,753 73,491 69,840 102 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued The comparative other debtors balance has been restated as preference shares debtors of 13.5m has been presented separately in the groups Statement of Financial Position.
This reclassification has no impact on net assets.
The average credit period on sales of goods and services is 30 days.
Trade receivables beyond 60 days overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods and services, determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit terms for customers are determined in individual territories.
There are no customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
As at September 30 2016, trade receivables of 28.0m 2015: 21.9m were not yet due.
Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables: 2016 2015 000 000 Past due less than a month 12,265 14,496 Past due more than a month but less than two months 4,608 3,760 Past due more than two months but less than three months 2,981 2,990 Past due more than three months 3,998 2,649 23,852 23,895 The group has not provided for these trade receivables as there has been no significant change in their credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The average age of these receivables is 73 days 2015: 67 days.
The group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
Ageing of trade receivables impaired and partially provided for: 2016 2015 000 000 Past due less than a month 998 6,444 Past due more than a month but less than two months 917 2,195 Past due more than two months but less than three months 883 462 Past due more than three months 3,882 4,203 6,680 13,304 The amount of the provision for impaired trade receivables was 5.3m 2015: 5.4m.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
Movements on the group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2016 2015 000 000 At October 1 5,441 5,226 Impairment losses recognised 4,089 4,835 Impairment losses reversed 3,493 3,007 Amounts written off as uncollectible 1,047 1,696 Disposals 99 Exchange differences 377 83 Classified as held for sale 2 At September 30 5,270 5,441 103 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 WWW.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
The allowance for doubtful debts does not include individually impaired trade receivables which have been placed under liquidation as these trade receivables are written off directly to the Income Statement.
17 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2016 2015 000 000 Trade creditors 4,834 2,490 Amounts owed to DMGT group undertakings 3 534 Liability for cash-settled options 527 71 Other creditors 18,502 20,916 23,866 24,011 The directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate their fair values.
18 DEFERRED INCOME 2016 2015 000 000 Deferred subscription income 93,518 86,198 Other deferred income 25,268 25,931 118,786 112,129 Within one year 113,446 106,165 In more than one year 5,340 5,964 118,786 112,129 19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 2016 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 000 000 000 000 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge: Current 410 9,671 1,313 3,346 Non-current 9 778 9 661 419 10,449 1,322 4,007 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk arising in the normal course of business.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates but are not employed for speculative purposes.
Full details of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the group in relation to financial risk management are set out in this note and on pages 78 and 79 of the accounting policies.
In summary, the groups tax and treasury committee normally meets twice a year and is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The groups treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs and revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within policies and procedures approved by the board.
Forward contracts are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in exchange rate movements.
Further details are set out in the foreign exchange rate risk section page 106.
104 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders.
The groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2015.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 20, cash deposits with Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT group disclosed in note 29, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
NET CASH DEBT TO ADJUSTED EBITDA RATIO The groups tax and treasury committee reviews the groups capital structure at least twice a year.
A US$160m multi-currency revolving credit facility, provided by DMGT, was extended during the financial year until November 28 2018 on similar terms.
The facility requires the groups net debt to rolling 12 month adjusted EBITDA to be no more than three times.
During the financial year ended September 30 2016 the net debt to rolling 12 month adjusted EBITDA did not breach the DMGT debt covenant.
As at September 30 2016 the facility was undrawn.
The group expects to be able to remain within these limits during the life of the facility.
The net cash debt to adjusted EBITDA covenant is defined to allow the rate used in the translation of US dollar adjusted EBITDA, including hedging contracts, to be used also in the calculation of net debt, thereby removing any distortion to the covenant from increases in net debt due to short-term movements in the US dollar.
The group has a deposit agreement with DMGT to place excess operating funds on deposit with DMGT at a LIBOR plus 0.5%.
The total cash deposit held with DMGT is disclosed in note 29.
The net cash to adjusted EBITDA ratio at September 30 is as follows: 2016 2015 000 000 Loan notes 185 267 Cash deposit with DMGT group company 73,639 9,799 10,328 8,148 Cash and cash equivalents, net of overdraft Net cash 83,782 17,680 Adjusted EBITDA 110,117 114,482 Net cash to adjusted EBITDA ratio 0.76 0.15 Adjusted EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation of licences and software, and share of results in associates and joint ventures, adjusted for the timing impact of acquisitions and disposals.
CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The groups financial assets and liabilities at September 30 are as follows: 2016 2015 000 000 Financial assets Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 419 1,322 Available-for-sale investments note 14 5,835 5,835 Deferred consideration note 25 526 589 Loans and receivables including cash at bank and short-term deposits 147,478 94,623 154,258 102,369 Financial liabilities Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 10,449 4,007 Deferred consideration note 25 480 Acquisition commitments note 25 11,771 9,171 Loans and payables including bank overdrafts 97,659 80,762 120,359 93,940 105 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 WWW.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities above are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy other than available-for-sale investments, deferred consideration and acquisition commitments which are classified as level 3 page 111.
The directors consider that the carrying value amounts of financial assets and liabilities are equal to their fair value.
The group has derivative assets of 0.4m 2015: 1.3m and derivative liabilities of 10.4m 2015: 4.0m with a number of banks that do not meet the offsetting criteria of IAS 32, but which the group has the right to setoff same currency cash flows settled on the same date.
Consequently, the gross amount of the derivative assets and the gross amount of the derivative liabilities are presented separately in the groups Statement of Financial Position.
The group has entered into an omnibus guarantee and setoff agreement with Lloyds Banking Group plc with a right to setoff outstanding credit balances against cash balances.
Cash and cash equivalents included a net overdraft of 0.2m 2015: 0.7m after applying this setoff.
Bank overdrafts included gross cash balances of 0.4m 2015: 20.7m which are offset under the cash pooling arrangements.
This agreement meets the offsetting criteria of IAS 32. i MARKET PRICE RISK Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely affect the value of the groups financial assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
The groups primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations and exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce the risks of interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a particular risk are not specialised and are generally available from numerous sources.
The fair values of forward exchange contracts are set out in this note and represent the value for which an asset could be sold or liability settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction calculated using the market rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2016.
The group has no other material market price risks.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risks during the year.
ii FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE RISK The groups principal foreign exchange exposure is to US dollar.
The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including approximately 35% of the revenues in its UK-based businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollar-denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, the translation of results of foreign subsidiaries and external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
The carrying amounts of the groups US dollar-denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 US dollar 55,910 78,404 347,444 158,319 Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level, a series of US dollar and euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and euro revenues over an 18 month period and is regularly reviewed and revised with any changes in estimates resulting in either additional forward contracts being taken out or existing contracts maturity dates being moved forward or back.
If management materially underestimate the groups future US dollar and euro denominated revenues, this would lead to too few forward contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to swings in US dollar and euro to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar and euro denominated revenues would lead to associated costs in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
The group also has a significant operation in Canada whose revenues are mainly in US dollars.
At a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the operations Canadian cost base.
In addition, each subsidiary is encouraged to invoice sales in its local functional currency where possible.
Forward exchange contracts are gross settled at maturity.
IMPACT OF 10% STRENGTHENING OF STERLING AGAINST US DOLLAR The following table details the groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against US dollar.
A 10% sensitivity has been determined by the board as the sensitivity rate appropriate when reporting an estimated foreign currency risk internally and represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates at the reporting date.
106 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
Where sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency a negative number below indicates a decrease in profit and equity.
For a 10% weakening of sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other comprehensive income, and the balances below would be positive.
2016 2015 000 000 Change in profit for the year in Income Statement US$ net assets in UK companies 79 892 Change in other comprehensive income derivative financial instruments 6,811 8,184 Change in other comprehensive income loans to foreign operations 29,139 12,466 The decrease in the loss from the sensitivity analysis is due to a decrease in the working capital assets.
The decrease in other comprehensive income from 8.2m to 6.8m from the sensitivity analysis is due to the decrease in the notional value of the derivative financial instruments.
The group is also exposed to the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses, although the group does not hedge the translation of these results.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus other currencies could materially affect the translation of these results in the consolidated financial statements.
The change in other comprehensive income from a 10% change in sterling against US dollars in relation to the translation of loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower would result in a change of 29.1m 2015: 12.5m.
However, the change in other comprehensive income is completely offset by the change in value of the foreign operations net assets from their translation into sterling.
FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS It is the policy of the group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts.
A series of US dollar and euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
In addition, at a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the subsidiarys Canadian cost base.
The group has also entered into a number of short dated South African Rand forward contracts to hedge future UK based ZAR payments.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued As at September 30 2016, the aggregate amount of unrealised losses under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the fair value reserve relating to future revenue transactions is 10.0m 2015: 2.7m.
It is anticipated that the transactions will take place over the next 18 months at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be released to the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2016, there were no ineffective cash flow hedges in place at the year end 2015: nil.
iii INTEREST RATE RISK The groups committed facility is in both sterling and US dollars with the related interest tied to LIBOR.
If the group drew down on this facility then this would result in the groups interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in interest rates.
It is the groups policy to hedge approximately 80% of its interest exposure, converting its floating rate debt into fixed debt by means of interest rate swaps.
The maturity dates are spread in order to reduce interest rate basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
As at September 30 2016, there were no interest rate swaps outstanding as the group had repaid its debt in full 2015: nil.
The groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section on page 109.
INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate instruments, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 100 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents the directors assessment of a reasonably possible change in interest rates at the reporting date.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the groups profit for the year ended September 30 2016 would decrease or increase by 0.8m 2015: 0.1m.
This is mainly attributable to the groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings and cash deposits.
iv CREDIT RISK Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks described above by the use of financial instruments and as a result have a credit risk from the potential non-performance by the counterparties to these financial instruments, which are unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal amount being hedged.
The group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents and cash on deposit with DMGT.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the amounts outstanding with, and the credit quality of, these counterparties.
For the groups cash and cash equivalents these are principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and for cash on deposit and derivative financial instruments with DMGT who have treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AA.
The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
The concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the groups large and broad customer base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the business units where they arise.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk of non-payment taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, recorded in the Statement of Financial Position.
The group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
108 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued v LIQUIDITY RISK The group is an approved borrower under a DMGT US$160m committed multi-currency revolving credit facility which expires on November 28 2018.
The DMGT facility requires the group to meet certain covenants based on net debt and profits adjusted for certain non-cash items and the impact of foreign exchange.
Exceeding the covenant would result in the group being in breach of the facility potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitors the covenants and prepares detailed cash flow forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2016, the groups net cash to adjusted EBITDA was 0.76 times 2015: 0.15 times.
The group has a deposit agreement with DMGT to place any excess operating funds on deposit with DMGT at LIBOR plus 0.5%.
The groups strategy is to use excess operating cash on deposit with DMGT or pay down its debt.
As at September 30 2016 the facility was undrawn and has not been utilised during the financial year 2015: nil.
The group generally has an annual cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated from operations covers operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation and exceptional items of 100% or more due to much of its subscription, sponsorship and delegate revenue being paid in advance.
The groups operating cash conversion rate was 102%.
The underlying operating cash conversion rate is 105% compared to 104% in 2015.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility, may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experience funding difficulties themselves.
However, if DMGT were unable to fulfil its funding commitment to the group, the directors are confident that the group would be in a position to secure adequate external facilities, although at a higher cost of funding.
The groups forecasts and projections, looking out to September 2019 and taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the group should be able to operate within the level and covenants of its current and available borrowing facilities.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual cash flows of the financial liabilities including both interest and principal cash flows.
To the extent that the interest rates are floating, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at September 30 2016.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the group may be required to settle.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2016 % 000 000 000 Variable rate borrowings 185 185 Deferred consideration 480 480 Acquisition commitments 326 11,445 11,771 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 97,474 97,474 98,465 11,445 109,910 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2015 % 000 000 000 Variable rate borrowings 3.08 267 267 Acquisition commitments 9,171 9,171 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 80,495 80,495 80,762 9,171 89,933 109 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 WWW.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued The following table details the groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial assets, mainly short-term deposits for amounts on loans owed by DMGT group undertakings and equity non-controlling interests.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2016 % 000 000 000 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank and short-term deposits 1.14 84,200 84,200 Deferred consideration 526 526 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 63,278 63,278 147,478 526 148,004 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2015 % 000 000 000 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank and short-term deposits 3.16 18,688 18,688 Deferred consideration 331 258 589 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 75,935 75,935 94,954 258 95,212 The following table details the groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement.
Less than 13 3 months 15 1 month months to 1 year years Total 2016 000 000 000 000 000 Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 7,151 12,322 51,121 21,452 92,046 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 8,323 14,324 57,144 22,280 102,071 1,172 2,002 6,023 828 10,025 Less than 13 3 months 15 1 month months to 1 year years Total 2015 000 000 000 000 000 Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 8,212 14,754 68,469 30,808 122,243 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 8,375 15,342 69,717 31,383 124,817 163 588 1,248 575 2,574 110 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: LEVEL 1 The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices.
LEVEL 2 The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash ow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
LEVEL 3 If one or more significant inputs are not based on observable market date, the instrument is included in level 3.
As at September 30 2016 and the prior year, all the resulting fair value estimates have been included in level 2 other than the groups available-for-sale investments, acquisition commitments and deferred consideration which are classified as level 3.
OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS NOT RECORDED AT FAIR VALUE The directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
Such financial assets and financial liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables and loans.
20 LOANS 2016 2015 000 000 Loan notes current liabilities 185 267 LOAN NOTES Loan notes were issued in October and November 2006 to fund the purchase of Metal Bulletin plc.
Interest is payable on these loan notes at a variable rate of 0.75% below LIBOR, payable in June and December.
Loan notes can be redeemed at the option of the loan note holder twice a year on the interest payment dates above.
The remaining loan notes will be redeemed in full on December 30 2016.
During the year ended September 30 2016 0.1m 2015: 0.2m of these loan notes were redeemed.
COMMITTED LOAN FACILITY The groups access to debt funding is provided through a committed multi-currency revolving credit facility from Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
The total maximum borrowing capacity is US$160m 123m.
The facility was extended during the financial year and is available to the group until November 28 2018.
Interest is payable on this facility at a variable rate of between 1.35% and 2.35% above LIBOR dependent on the ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
The facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt to be no more than three times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
Failure to maintain the covenant requirement would result in the group being in breach of the facility, potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitors the covenant and prepares detailed forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2016, the groups net cash to adjusted EBITDA was 0.76 times and the committed undrawn facility available to the group was 123m.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility, or that the additional funding, may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experiences funding difficulties themselves.
The groups strategy is to use excess operating cash to deposit with DMGT or pay down its debt.
The group generally has an annual cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated from operations covers adjusted operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation and exceptional items of 100% or more due to much of its subscription, sponsorship and delegate revenue being paid in advance.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 21 PROVISIONS Onerous lease Other provision provisions Total 000 000 000 At October 1 2015 840 2,340 3,180 Provision in the year 803 803 Used in the year 298 361 659 115 30 145 Exchange differences At September 30 2016 657 2,812 3,469 2016 2015 000 000 Maturity profile of provisions: Within one year included in current liabilities 353 835 Between one and two years included in non-current liabilities 493 Between two and five years included in non-current liabilities 2,623 2,345 3,469 3,180 ONEROUS LEASE PROVISION The onerous lease provision relates to certain buildings within the property portfolio which either at acquisition were rented at non-market rates, or are no longer occupied by the group.
OTHER PROVISIONS The provision consists of social security arising on share option liabilities and dilapidations on leasehold properties.
A dilapidation provision of 2.1m is held in respect of the groups main London offices on Bouverie Street.
The leases which expire in 2029 do not contain any break clauses.
As such, it is unlikely that the provisions will be utilised before the expiry date of the leases.
22 DEFERRED TAXATION The net deferred tax liability at September 30 2016 comprised: Other Acquisitions Income comprehensive and Exchange 2015 statement income Equity deposits differences 2016 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Capitalised goodwill and intangibles 30,988 2,302 233 2,029 4,143 35,091 Tax losses 4,262 702 340 5,304 Financial instruments 266 1,437 1,703 Other short-term temporary differences 8,056 7,105 1,227 8 1,395 17,791 Deferred tax 18,404 10,109 2,664 225 2,029 2,408 10,293 Comprising: Deferred tax assets 20 3,886 Deferred tax liabilities 18,424 14,179 18,404 10,293 112 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 DEFERRED TAXATION continued Other Acquisitions Income comprehensive and Exchange 2015 statement income Equity deposits differences 2016 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Other short-term temporary differences: Share-based payments 13 42 8 63 Pension deficit 393 78 1,227 1,698 Accelerated capital allowances 1,262 436 1,698 6,388 6,549 1,395 14,332 Deferred income, accruals and other provisions Total other short-term temporary differences 8,056 7,105 1,227 8 1,395 17,791 At the balance sheet date, the group has unused US tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September 30 2016 a deferred tax asset of 2.1m 2015: 2.7m has been recognised in relation to these losses.
The US losses can be carried forward for a period of 20 years from the date they arose.
The US losses have expiry dates between 2016 and 2030.
At the balance sheet date, the group has unused UK tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September 30 2016 a deferred tax asset of 3.2m 2015: 1.6m has been recognised in relation to these losses.
There is no expiry date on these losses.
The directors are of the opinion that, based on recent and forecast trading, it is probable that the level of profits in future years is sufficient to enable the above assets to be recovered.
Of the 10.3m net deferred tax liability, 1.4m of the deferred tax asset is expected to reverse over the next 12 months, with the remaining net deferred tax liability expected to reverse after 12 months.
There are additional tax losses in the UK with a deferred tax value of 0.5m for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 266.0m 2015: 228.0m relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at September 30 2016 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
Under IFRS deferred tax is calculated at the tax rate that has been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Legislation was substantively enacted in September 2016, to reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax from 19% to 17% from April 1 2020.
The relevant UK deferred tax balances have been revalued and the impact is shown in note 8.
23 CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL 2016 2015 000 000 Allotted, called up and fully paid 128,313,356 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2015: 128,248,894 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 321 320 During the year, 64,462 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2015: 115,477 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 161 2015: 289 were issued following the exercise of share options granted under the companys share option schemes for a cash consideration of 0.3m 2015: 0.5m.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 24 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The groups long-term incentive expense credit at September 30 comprised: 2016 2015 000 000 Equity-settled options SAYE 157 102 CAP 2010 15 34 CAP 2014 2,057 PSP 123 Buy-out award 477 742 1,989 Cash-settled options CAP 2010 4 35 CAP 2014 466 Buy-out award 460 456 501 1,198 2,490 The total carrying value of cash-settled options at September 30 included in the Statement of Financial Position is: 2016 2015 000 000 Current liabilities 527 71 EQUITY-SETTLED OPTIONS The options set out on page 115 are outstanding at September 30 and are options to subscribe for new ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company.
The total charge recognised in the year from equity-settled options was 0.7m, representing 62% of the groups long-term incentive charge 2015: credit of 2.0m, 80%.
There are no share options exercisable at the end of the period 2015: 40,933.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 24 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES UNDER OPTION: 2015 Weighted average market price at Granted Exercised Lapsed Option date of during during forfeited price exercise 2014 year year during year 2015 Period during which option may be exercised: SAYE Between February 1 2015 and July 31 2015 106,243 106,243 4.97 10.43 Between February 1 2016 and July 31 2016 53,851 1,955 7,840 44,056 6.39 11.24 Between February 1 2017 and July 31 2017 60,523 680 12,861 46,982 9.17 10.99 Between February 1 2018 and July 31 2018 152,917 22,360 130,557 8.15 CAP 2010 Before September 30 2020 tranche 2 55,421 6,599 7,889 40,933 0.0025 10.47 CSOP 2010 Before February 14 2020 UK 279 279 6.03 CAP 2014 1 Before September 30 2023 2,097,363 2,097,363 0.0025 CSOP 2014 Before September 30 2023 UK 400,512 400,512 11.16 Before September 30 2023 Canada 116,519 116,519 11.16 2,890,711 152,917 115,477 51,229 2,876,922 Weighted average exercise price 2.49 8.15 4.73 6.87 2.62 The options outstanding at September 30 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.52 years.
1 The allocation of the number of options granted under each tranche of the CAP and CSOP UK and CSOP Canada represents the directors best estimate.
The CAP award is reduced by the number of options vesting under the respective CSOP schemes see the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
CASH-SETTLED OPTIONS The group has liabilities in respect of two share option schemes that are classified by IFRS 2 Share-based Payments as cash-settled.
These consist of the cash element of the CAP 2010 and the CAP 2014 scheme.
SHARE OPTION SCHEMES The company has four share option schemes for which an IFRS 2 Share-based payments charge has been recognised.
Details of these schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 58.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are shown below.
116 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued SAVE AS YOU EARN SAYE OPTIONS SAYE 15 16 17 December 12 December 22 January 5 Date of grant 2013 2014 2016 Market value at date of grant p 1,146 1,019 934 Option price p 917 815 747 Option life years 3.5 3.5 3.5 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 3.0 3.0 3.0 Exercise price p 917 815 747 Risk-free rate 0.53% 0.61% 0.59% Dividend yield 2.50% 2.29% 2.13% Volatility 22% 24% 22% Fair value per option 2.42 2.34 2.03 The group operates a SAYE scheme in which all employees, including directors, employed in the UK are eligible to participate.
Participants save a fixed monthly amount of up to 500 for three years and are then able to buy shares in the company at a price set at a 20% discount to the market value at the start of the savings period.
In line with market practice, no performance conditions attach to options granted under this plan.
The SAYE options were valued using the BlackScholes option-pricing model.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the groups share price over a period of three years.
The expected term of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The CAP 2010 executive share option scheme was approved by the shareholders on January 21 2010.
Each CAP 2010 award comprises two equal elements: an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25 pence each in the company at an exercise price of 0.25 pence per ordinary share, and a right to receive a cash payment.
The award pool comprised 3,500,992 ordinary shares with an option value of 15.0m and cash of 15.0m, limiting the total accounting cost to 30.0m over its life.
The awards vest in two equal tranches.
The first tranche of awards became exercisable in February 2013 on satisfaction of the primary performance condition in 2012 and there are no options outstanding.
The second tranche became exercisable in February 2014 in which the primary performance condition was again satisfied.
The remaining balance of the second tranche is subject to an additional performance condition, applicable for the vesting of the second tranche of awards, which requires the profits of each business in the subsequent vesting period be at least 75% of that achieved in the year the first tranche of awards became exercisable.
The options lapse to the extent unexercised by September 30 2020.
The CAP 2014 was approved by the shareholders on January 30 2014 as a replacement for CAP 2010.
Each CAP 2014 award comprises two equal instalments: an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25 pence each in the company for nil consideration, and a right to receive a cash payment.
The value of the awards is linked directly to the growth in profits over the performance period.
The award pool comprises a maximum of 3.5m shares and cash of 7.6m, limiting the cost of the scheme to 41.0m over its life.
Awards will vest in three equal tranches, subject to the performance conditions and lapse to the extent unexercised by September 30 2023.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 24 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued The CAP options were valued using a fair value model that adjusted the share price at the date of grant for the net present value of expected future dividend streams up to the date of expected exercise.
The expected term of the option used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The number of CSOP 2014 awards that vest proportionally reduce the number of shares that vest under the CAP 2014 respectively.
The CSOP is effectively a delivery mechanism for part of the CAP award.
The CSOP 2014 options were valued using the BlackScholes option-pricing model.
The 1 CSOP 2014 options have an exercise price of 11.16, which will be satisfied by a funding award mechanism which results in the same net gain on these options delivered in the equivalent number of shares to participants as if the same award had been delivered using 0.25 pence CAP options.
The amount of the funding award will depend on the companys share price at the date of vesting.
Because of the above and the other direct links between the CSOP 2014 and the CAP 2014, including the identical performance criteria, IFRS 2 Share based payments combines the two plans and treats them as one plan.
The minimum performance target under CAP 2014 is unlikely to be achieved given the tough trading conditions with the result that the related costs were not amortised in 2016 and 2015 and the costs in 2014 were reversed in 2015.
1 Net gain on the CSOP options is the market price of the companys shares at the date of exercise less the exercise price multiplied by the number of options exercised.
2015 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP The PSP was approved by the shareholders on June 1 2015.
Under the PSP share option scheme, each award of options has a maximum life of ten years.
The maximum award is shares with a market value 200% of annualised basic salary.
These awards will not normally vest until the five years after the award and the performance conditions have been met.
The only grant under this scheme was to A Rashbass, CEO, on December 18 2015 for 159,269 nil-cost options with fair value of 1.5m.
The share price used to determine the number of shares awarded was the average of the middle market quotations of an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official List for the preceding five dealing days of December 18 2015.
Further details are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
BUY-OUT AWARD There was a buy-out award issued to A Rashbass on October 1 2015.
Further detail is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
25 ACQUISITION COMMITMENTS AND DEFERRED CONSIDERATION The group is party to contingent consideration arrangements in the form of acquisition commitments, acquisition deferred consideration payments and deferred consideration receipts on disposal.
The group recognises the discounted present value of the contingent consideration.
This discount is unwound as a notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
The group regularly performs a review of the underlying businesses to assess the impact on the fair value of the contingent consideration.
Any resultant change in these fair values is reported as a finance income or expense in the Income Statement.
Deferred consideration Deferred consideration Acquisition commitments payments receipts 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 At October 1 9,171 13,365 589 8,503 Reduction from disposals during the year 450 269 Receipt payment during the year 662 11,558 Net movements in finance income and expense during the year note 7 601 4,748 2,851 Exercise of commitments 239 109 Additions from acquisitions during the year 665 480 Exchange differences to reserves 1,573 663 149 116 At September 30 11,771 9,171 480 526 589 Within one year 326 480 331 In more than one year 11,445 9,171 526 258 11,771 9,171 480 526 589 Exchange differences to reserves were recorded within net exchange differences on translation of net investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
118 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 ACQUISITION COMMITMENTS AND DEFERRED CONSIDERATION continued Reconciliation of finance income and expense note 7 : Acquisition commitments Deferred consideration 2016 2015 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 Fair value adjustment during the year 258 5,727 2,617 859 979 234 Imputed interest Net movements in finance income and expense during the year 601 4,748 2,851 The value of the acquisition commitments, acquisition deferred consideration payments and deferred consideration receipts on disposal is subject to a number of assumptions.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the group could be required to make under the acquisition contingent consideration arrangements is as follows: 2016 2015 Maximum Minimum Maximum Minimum 000 000 000 000 NDR 46,314 40,121 World Bulk Wine 672 FastMarkets 480 47,466 40,121 The potential undiscounted amount of all future receipts that the group could receive under the disposal contingent consideration arrangement is as follows: 2016 2015 Maximum Minimum Maximum Minimum 000 000 000 000 MIS Training 330 II Newsletters 142 258 Gulf 312 PE 72 526 588 The discounted acquisition commitments, acquisition deferred consideration payments and deferred consideration receipts on disposal are based on predetermined multiples of future profits of the businesses, and have been estimated on an  basis using available performance forecasts.
The directors derive their estimates from internal business plans and financial due diligence.
At September 30 2016, the weighted average growth rates used in estimating the expected profits range was 13%.
A one percentage point increase or decrease in growth rate in estimating the expected profits, results in the acquisition commitment at September 30 2016 increasing or decreasing by 0.1m with the corresponding change to the value charged or credited to the Income Statement in future periods.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 26 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS At September 30 the group had committed to make the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2016 2015 000 000 Within one year 9,105 6,749 Between two and five years 22,016 19,671 After five years 23,303 26,388 54,424 52,808 The groups operating leases do not include any significant leasing terms or conditions.
At September 30 the group had contracted with tenants to receive the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2016 2015 000 000 Within one year 949 1,614 Between two and five years 2,164 2,882 709 1,114 After five years 3,822 5,610 27 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES The group operates the following defined contribution schemes: DMGT PensionSaver and the Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan in the UK and the 401 k savings and investment plan in the US.
It also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT which up to September 30 2016 was accounted for as a defined contribution scheme.
In compliance with legislation the group operates a defined contribution plan, DMGT PensionSaver, into which relevant employees are automatically enrolled.
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes for the year ended September 30 comprised: 2016 2015 000 000 DMGT Pension Plan PensionSaver 2,059 1,991 Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan 15 16 Private schemes 1,148 1,020 11 89 Harmsworth Pension Scheme 3,233 3,116 DMGT PENSIONSAVER DMGT PensionSaver is a group personal pension plan and is the principal pension arrangement offered to employees of the group.
Contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
Employees are able to contribute a minimum of 2% of salary with an equal company contribution in the first three years of employment and thereafter at twice the employee contribution rate, up to a maximum employer contribution of 10% of salary.
Assets are invested in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration is undertaken by Fidelity Pension Management.
METAL BULLETIN GROUP PERSONAL PENSION PLAN The Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan is a defined contribution arrangement under which contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
The scheme is closed to new members.
The plans assets are invested under trust in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of the plan is undertaken by Skandia Life Group.
120 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES continued PRIVATE SCHEMES Institutional Investor LLC contributes to a 401 k savings and investment plan for its employees which is administered by an independent investment provider.
Employees are able to contribute up to 50% of salary maximum of US$52,000 a year with the company matching up to 50% of the employee contributions, up to 6% of salary.
DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES The group operates the Metal Bulletin plc Pension Scheme MBPS and participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme HPS, which is a scheme operated by DMGT, both of which are now closed to new entrants.
HPS was accounted for by Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC as a defined contribution scheme in prior years as DMGT did not have a policy of allocating the net defined benefit scheme deficit to other DMGT group entities.
However, due to a change in policy by DMGTs policy to allocate the assets and liabilities of the DMGT groups defined benefit plan on a buy-out basis, the groups share of HPS has been recognised at September 30 2016.
The net deficit reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at September 30 2016 includes a deficit of 1.2m for HPS, which has been treated as an exceptional item in the current year as shown in note 5.
HARMSWORTH PENSION SCHEME HPS is a defined benefit scheme operated by DMGT and closed to further accrual.
Full actuarial valuations of the defined benefit schemes are carried out triennially by the scheme actuary.
As a result of the valuations of the main schemes as at March 31 2013, DMGT makes annual contributions of 12.0% or 18.0% of members basic pay depending on membership section.
Following the results of the latest triennial valuation, DMGT agreed a recovery plan involving a series of annual funding payments, and in accordance with this arrangement, payments of 23.2m were made in line with the due date of October 5 2014.
Between October 2015 and October 2026 further annual payments have been agreed amounting to 305.9m excluding the balloon funding payment referred to below in connection with the Limited Partnership investment vehicle.
DMGT considers that these contribution rates are sufficient to eliminate the deficit over the agreed period.
Both the ongoing contributions and Recovery Plan will be reviewed at the next triennial funding valuation of the main schemes due to be completed with an effective date of March 31 2016.
In February 2014 DMGT agreed with the Trustees, that should it continue its share buy-back programme, it would make additional contributions to the schemes amounting to 20% of the value of shares purchased.
Contributions of 3.5m relating to this agreement were made in the year to September 30 2016.
DMGT enabled the trustee of the scheme to acquire a beneficial interest in a Limited Partnership investment vehicle LP.
The LP has been designed to facilitate payment of 10.8m as part of the deficit funding payments described above over the period to 2026.
In addition, the LP is required to make a final payment to the scheme of 149.9m, or the funding deficit within the scheme on an ongoing actuarial valuation basis at the end of the period to 2026 if this is less.
For funding purposes, HPSs interest in the LP is treated as an asset of the scheme and reduces the actuarial deficit within the scheme.
However, under IAS 19 Employee Benefits the LP is not included as an asset of the scheme and therefore is not included in the disclosures below.
DMGT also has a defined benefit obligation relating to the DMGT AVC Plan the Plan which is closed to further member contributions.
The most recent actuarial funding valuation of the Plan, carried out with an effective date of March 31 2014, showed a funding deficit of 3.8m.
The Trustees and DMGT have agreed that this funding shortfall will be recovered through the expected investment returns, with no further contributions required from DMGT.
DMGT expects to contribute approximately 13m to the schemes during the year to September 30 2017 including the deficit funding payments described above.
The Euromoney group did not contribute to the scheme in 2016 and does not expect to contribute in 2017.
METAL BULLETIN PENSION SCHEME A full actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme is carried out triennially by the Scheme Actuary.
The latest valuation of the MBPS was completed as at June 1 2016.
Any change to the future contributions have not been agreed.
As a result of the 2013 valuation, the company agreed to make annual contributions of 38.9% per annum of pensionable salaries, plus 42,400 per month to the scheme.
The group considers that the contributions set at the last valuation date are sufficient to eliminate the deficit and that regular contributions, which are based on service costs, will not increase significantly.
The group expects to contribute approximately 0.6m to the Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme during the year to September 30 2017.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 27 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES continued A reconciliation of the net pension deficit reported in the Statement of Financial Position is shown in the following table: 2016 2015 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation 71,174 34,452 61,179 32,479 Fair value of plan assets Deficit reported in the Statement of Financial Position 9,995 1,973 The deficit for the year excludes a related deferred tax asset of 1.7m 2015: asset 0.4m.
The movements in the defined benefit liability over the year are as follows: Present Net defined value of Fair value of benefit obligation plan assets liability 2016 2016 2016 2016 000 000 000 At September 30 2015 34,452 32,479 1,973 Current service cost 90 90 Interest expense income 1,264 1,198 66 Total charge recognised in Income Statement 1,354 1,198 156 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest expense income 3,589 3,589 Gain due to change in financial assumptions 10,804 10,804 Total losses recognised in Statement of Comprehensive Income 10,804 3,589 7,215 Contributions employers 598 598 Contributions plan participants 10 10 Payments from the plans benefit payments 710 710 Recognition due to change in accounting policy for HPS 25,264 24,015 1,249 At September 30 2016 71,174 61,179 9,995 Present Net defined value of Fair value of benefit obligation plan assets liability 2015 2015 2015 2015 000 000 000 At September 30 2014 36,218 31,431 4,787 Current service cost 57 57 Interest expense income 1,363 1,193 170 Total charge recognised in Income Statement 1,420 1,193 227 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest expense income 45 45 Gain due to change in demographic assumptions 2,447 2,447 Gain due to change in financial assumptions 19 19 Total gains recognised in Statement of Comprehensive Income 2,466 45 2,421 Contributions employers 620 620 Payments from the plans benefit payments 720 720 At September 30 2015 34,452 32,479 1,973 122 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES continued The major categories and fair values of plan assets are as follows: 2016 2015 000 000 Equities 23,609 10,853 Bonds 31,535 18,923 Property 2,846 With profits policy 2,734 2,567 Cash and cash equivalents 455 136 61,179 32,479 Equities include hedge funds and infrastructure funds.
All the assets listed above excluding cash and cash equivalents have a quoted market price in an active market.
The assets do not include any of the groups own financial instruments nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the group.
The actual return on plan assets was 4.8m 2015: 1.1m.
The 2016 fair values of plan assets include 1% of the scheme assets of HPS, the comparatives have not been restated for the change in accounting policy.
The figures in this note are based on calculations carried out in connection with the actuarial valuation of the scheme as at June 1 2013 adjusted to September 30 2016 by the actuary.
The key financial assumptions adopted are as follows: 2016 2015 % % Discount rate 2.40 3.70 Price inflation 2.95 2.95 Salary increases 2.50 2.50 Pension increases 2.80 2.80 The discount rate for both scheme liabilities and the fair value of scheme assets reflects yields at the year-end date on high-quality corporate bonds and are based on a cash flow-based yield curve, calculating a single equivalent discount rate reflecting the average duration of the schemes liabilities, rounded to the nearest 0.05% p. a.
This methodology incorporates bonds given an AA rating from at least one of the main four rating agencies Standard and Poors, Moodys, Fitch and DBRS.
In previous years the methodology incorporated bonds given an AA rating from at least two of the four main rating agencies.
This change in accounting estimate increases the number of bonds being assessed as high-quality.
The impact of this change is to reduce the defined benefit obligation and net pension obligation reported on the Statement of Financial Position as at September 30 2016 by 2m.
RPI inflation is derived in a similar way to the discount rate but with reference to the Bank of England spot curve at the duration of the schemes weighted average duration with an appropriate allowance for inflation risk premium 0.30% p. a., rounded to the nearest 0.05% p. a.
In previous years this was derived from the annualised Bank of England spot curve at the duration of the schemes weighted average duration with an appropriate allowance for an inflation risk premium, rounded to the nearest 0.05% p. a. Mortality assumptions take account of scheme experience, and also allow for further improvements in life expectancy based on the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI projections but with a long-term rate of improvement in future mortality rates of 1.25 % p. a. Allowance is made for the extent to which employees have chosen to commute part of their pension for cash at retirement.
The average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the year is approximately 20 years 2015: 21 years.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 27 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES continued ASSUMED LIFE EXPECTANCY IN YEARS, ON RETIREMENT AT 62 2016 2015 Retiring at the end of the reporting year: Males 24.6 25.1 Females 26.8 26.9 Retiring 20 years after the end of the reporting year: Males 26.4 27.3 Females 28.7 29.2 Pension costs and the size of any pension surplus or deficit are sensitive to the assumptions adopted.
The sensitivity of the defined obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: Change in Change in Assumption assumption liabilities Discount rate Increase by 0.1% Decrease by 2.1% Inflation rate Increase by 0.1% Increase by 0.5% Salary increases Increase by 0.25% Increase by 0.1% Life expectancy Increase by one year Increase by 3.7% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice it is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions has been estimated by projecting the results of the last full actuarial valuation as at June 1 2013 forward to September 30 2016.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
These are the significant risks in connection with running defined benefit schemes, and the key risks are detailed below: DISCOUNT RATE RISK The present value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to high-quality corporate bond yields.
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the present value of the defined benefit obligation, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of corporate bonds held by the schemes.
INFLATION RATE RISK A significant proportion of the defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation, therefore increased inflation will result in a higher defined benefit obligation.
The Trustees have sought to acquire certain assets with exposure to inflationary uplifts in order to negate a proportion of this risk.
LIFE EXPECTANCY RISK The present value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated with reference to the best estimate of the mortality of scheme members.
An increase in assumed life expectancy will result in an increase in the defined benefit obligation.
Regular reviews of mortality experience are performed to ensure life expectancy assumptions remain appropriate.
INVESTMENT RISK This is a measure of the uncertainty that the return on the schemes assets keeps pace with the discount rate.
The schemes hold a significant proportion of equities and similar growth assets, which are expected to outperform the discount rate in the long term.
28 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES CLAIMS IN MALAYSIA Four writs claiming damages for libel were issued in Malaysia against the company and three of its employees in respect of an article published in one of the companys magazines, International Commercial Litigation, in November 1995.
The writs were served on the company on October 22 1996.
Two of these writs have been discontinued.
The total outstanding amount claimed on the two remaining writs is Malaysian ringgit 82.9m 15.4m.
No provision has been made for these claims in these financial statements as the directors do not believe the company has any material liability in respect of these writs.
124 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures not to disclose transactions and balances between group companies that have been eliminated on consolidation.
Other related party transactions and balances are detailed below: i The group had a US$160m multi-currency facility with Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited DMGH, a Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT group company: 2016 2015 000 000 Fees on the available facility for the year 525 733 ii On August 3 2015, the group entered into a deposit agreement with DMGH.
On May 25 2016, the group entered into a new agreement with DMGH and DMGB Limited, a DMGT group company: 2016 2015 000 000 Deposits 73,639 9,799 iii During the year, the group expensed services provided by DMGT, the groups parent, and other fellow group companies, as follows: 2016 2015 000 000 Services expensed 960 849 iv During the year, DMGT group companies surrendered tax losses to Euromoney Consortium Limited under an agreement between the two groups.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules: 2016 2015 000 000 Amounts payable 1,633 1,787 Tax losses with tax value 2,177 2,383 Amounts owed by DMGT group at September 30 121 313 v DMGT group companies have an agreement to surrender tax losses to Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules: 2016 2015 000 000 Amounts owed by DMGT group at September 30 202 125 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 WWW.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued vi During the year, the group received dividends from its associate undertakings: 2016 2015 000 000 Capital NET Limited 123 World Bulk Wine 83 vii During the year, Estimize Inc provided services to BCA for US$25,000 2015: nil.
viii NF Osborn serves as an advisor to the boards of both DMG Events and dmgi, fellow group companies, for which he received a combined fee of US$23,250 2015: US$18,600.
ix The directors who served during the year received dividends of 0.2m 2015: 0.2m in respect of ordinary shares held in the company.
x Gulf and PE were disposed of during the year for 10.8m note 15 to Gulf Publishing Holdings LLC, in which the former president of Gulf and PE, John Royall, holds 11%.
xi The compensation paid or payable for key management is set out below.
Key management includes the executive and non-executive directors as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report and other key divisional directors who are not on the board.
KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION 2016 2015 000 000 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 9,672 12,245 Non-executive directors fees 343 223 Post-employment benefits 319 279 Other long-term benefits all share-based 992 30 11,326 12,777 Of which: Executive directors 4,512 7,482 Non-executive directors 343 223 6,471 5,072 Divisional directors 11,326 12,777 Details of the remuneration of directors is given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
30 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE The directors propose a final dividend of 16.40p per share 2015: 16.40p totalling 20.8m 2015: 20.7m for the year ended September 30 2016.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the AGM to be held on January 26 2017.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period, these financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable but will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending September302017.
On October 31 2016, the group entered into an asset purchase agreement between Institutional Investor LLC and Pageant Media Limited for the sale of assets of Institutional Investor Intelligence for an initial cash consideration of US$0.7m, royalty consideration receivable of up to US$0.3m over a 24 month period from the completion date and will assume the expected deferred income on completion.
Given that the IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations criteria to be classified as held for sale have been met at September 30 2016, the assets and liabilities of Institutional Investor Intelligence have been disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
As such, the additional IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period disclosures are not provided as the disposal was not completed at the time this report is authorised for issue.
There were no other events after the balance sheet date.
126 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 ULTIMATE PARENT UNDERTAKING AND CONTROLLING PARTY The company is controlled by Rothermere Continuation Limited RCL which is incorporated in Bermuda.
RCL is owned by a trust the Trust which is held for the benefit of Viscount Rothermere and his immediate family.
The Trust represents the ultimate controlling party of the company.
Both RCL and the Trust are administered in Jersey, in the Channel Islands.
The immediate parent of the company is DMG Charles Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
The largest and smallest group of which the company is a member and for which group accounts are drawn up is that of DMGT, incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
Copies of its report and accounts are available from: The company secretary Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street London W8 5TT www.
co. uk 32 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries and partnerships, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned included in these consolidated financial statements at September 30 2016 are disclosed below.
Proportion Principal activity Country of Company held and operation incorporation Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC n a Investment holding company United Kingdom ABF1 Limited 100% Dormant United Kingdom ABF2 Limited 100% Dormant United Kingdom Adhesion Asia Limited 100% Events Hong Kong Adhesion Group S. A.
100% Events France Asia Business Forum Singapore Pte Ltd 100% Dormant Singapore Asia Business Forum Thailand Limited 100% Dormant Thailand Asia Business Forum SDN.
BHD 100% Dormant Malaysia BCA Research, Inc. 100% Research and data services Canada Benchmark Financials Ltd 100% Dormant Colombia BPR Associados Limitada 100% Dormant Colombia BPR Benchmark Limitada 100% Dormant Colombia Bright Milestone Limited 100% Investment holding company Hong Kong Business Forum Group Holdings Ltd 100% Dormant Thailand CEIC Data - Internet Securities Japan K. K 100% Information services Japan CEIC Data SG Pte Ltd 100% Information services Singapore CEIC Data Shanghai Co Ltd 100% Information services China CEIC Data Thailand Co Ltd 100% Information services Thailand CEIC Data Korea Limited 100% Information services Korea CEIC Holdings Limited 100% Information services Hong Kong CEICdata.
com Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100% Information services Malaysia Centre for Investor Education UK Limited 75% Investment holding company United Kingdom Centre for Investor Education Pty Limited 75% Events Australia EII Ventures Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom EII Holdings, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US EII US, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US EIMN LLC 100% Events US Euromoney Singapore Pte Limited 100% Events Singapore Euromoney Canada Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Charles Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium Limited 99.7% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney ESOP Trustee Ltd 100% Dormant United Kingdom Euromoney Global Limited 99.7% Publishing and events United Kingdom Euromoney Guarantee Limited 100% Dormant United Kingdom 127 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 WWW.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements CONTINUED 32 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES continued Proportion Principal activity Country of Company held and operation incorporation Euromoney Holdings US, Inc 100% Investment holding company US Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limited 100% Publishing, training and events Jersey # Euromoney Jersey Limited 100% Investment holding company Jersey Euromoney Luxembourg S. a. r. l 100% Investment holding company Luxembourg Euromoney Partnership LLP 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Polska SP Zoo 100% Information services Poland Euromoney Publications Jersey Limited 100% Investment holding company Jersey Euromoney Services Inc 100% Research and data services US Euromoney Trading Limited 100% Publishing, training and events United Kingdom Euromoney Training, Inc. 100% Training US Fantfoot Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Fastmarkets Limited 100% Publishing United Kingdom Fastmarkets Pte Limited 100% Publishing Singapore Fastmarkets Inc 100% Publishing US GGA Pte.
Limited 100% Events Singapore Glenprint Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Global Commodities Group Sarl 100% Events Switzerland Insider Publishing Limited 100% Dormant United Kingdom Institutional Investor LLC 100% Publishing and events US Institutional Investor Networks UK Limited 100% Information services United Kingdom Internet Data Services I Pvt Ltd 100% Information services India Internet Securities BVI Ltd 100% Dormant Colombia Internet Securities Argentina S. A.
100% Dormant Argentina Internet Securities Brazil Ltda 100% Information services Brazil Internet Securities Bulgaria EOOD 100% Information services Bulgaria Internet Securities Colombia Limited 100% Information services Colombia Internet Securities fide Chile Ltda 100% Information services Chile Internet Securities fide Mexico SDeRLdeCV 100% Information services Mexico Internet Securities Egypt Ltd 100% Dormant Egypt Internet Securities Hong Kong Ltd 100% Information services Hong Kong Internet Securities Istanbul Bilgi Merkezi Ltd STI 100% Dormant Turkey Internet Securities Limited 100% Information services United Kingdom Internet Securities, Inc. 100% Information services US Internet Securities Shanghai Limited 100% Information services China Latin American Financial Publications, Inc. 100% Publishing US Legal Media Group Limited 100% Dormant United Kingdom Metal Bulletin Holdings LLC 100% Investment holding company US Ned Davis Research, Inc. 85% Research and data services US Redquince Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Reinsurance Security Consultancy.
Co. UK Limited 100% Publishing United Kingdom Steel First Limited 100% Information services United Kingdom Storas Holdings Pte Ltd 100% Dormant Singapore Tipall Limited 100% Property holding United Kingdom TTI Technologies LLC 100% Events US World Bulk Wine Exhibition, S. L 57% Events Spain 100% preference shares held in addition.
Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limiteds principal country of operation is Hong Kong.
# Euromoney Jersey Limiteds principal country of operation is United Kingdom.
128 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES continued All holdings are of ordinary shares.
In addition, the group has a small number of branches outside the United Kingdom.
The dormant companies listed above are exempt from preparing individual accounts and from filing with the registrar individual accounts by virtue of s394A and s448A of Companies Act 2006 respectively.
A list of associates, joint ventures and joint arrangements is disclosed in note 14.
For the year ended September 30 2016, the following subsidiary undertakings of the group were exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of the Companies Act 2006: Company registration Company number Euromoney Canada Limited 01974125 Euromoney Charles Limited 04082590 EII Ventures Limited 05885797 Euromoney Partnership LLP OC363064 Fantfoot Limited 05503274 Internet Securities Limited 02976791 Redquince Limited 05994621 Steel First Limited 04002471 Insider Publishing Limited 03923422 Reinsurance Security Consultancy.
