orporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors responsibility statements Responsibility Statement Under the Companies Acts the directors must The directors are also responsible for not approve the Group and parent company preparing the Directors Report, the Directors under the Disclosure and financial statements unless they are satisfied Remuneration Report and the Corporate Transparency Rules that they give a true and fair view of the state Governance Report in accordance with Each of the directors whose names and of affairs of the Group and parent company and the Companies Act 2006 and applicable functions are listed on pages 100-101 confirm of the profit or loss of the Group and parent regulations, including the requirements of that to the best of their knowledge: company for that period.
In preparing each the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and the consolidated financial statements of of the Group and parent company financial Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom EVRAZ plc, prepared in accordance with statements the directors are required to: Listing Authority.
Legislation in the United International Financial Reporting Standards Present fairly the financial position, financial Kingdom governing the preparation and as adopted by the European Union, give a true performance and cash flows of the Group dissemination of financial statements may and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial and parent company: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
position and profit or loss of the Company and Select suitable accounting policies in the undertakings included in the consolidation accordance with IAS8:Accounting Policies, taken as a whole the Group : Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors the Annual Report and Accounts, including and then apply them consistently: the Strategic Report include a fair review of Present information, including accounting the development and performance of the policies, in a manner that provides relevant, business and the position of the Company and reliable, comparable and understandable the Group, together with a description of the information: principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: Provide additional disclosures when Statement Under the UK compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Corporate Governance is insufficient to enable users to understand Code the impact of particular transactions, other The Board considers that the report and events and conditions on the Groups and accounts taken as a whole, which incorporates parent companys financial position and the Strategic Report and Directors Report, financial performance: and is fair, balanced and understandable, and State that the Group and parent company that it provides the information necessary financial statements have been prepared in for shareholders to assess the Companys accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the performance, business model and strategy.
European Union, subject to any material departures discloses and explained in the financial statements.
Statement of Directors The directors are responsible for keeping Responsibilities in adequate accounting records that are sufficient Relation to the Annual to show and explain the Groups and parent Report and Financial companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Statements position of the Group and parent company The directors are responsible for preparing and enable them to ensure that the financial the Annual Report and the Group and parent statements comply with the Companies Act company financial statements in accordance 2006 and, with respect to the Group financial with applicable United Kingdom law and statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Company law requires the directors They are also responsible for safeguarding to prepare Group and parent company financial the assets of the Group and parent company statements for each financial year.
Under the and hence for taking reasonable steps for the law, the directors are required to prepare Group prevention and detection of fraud and other By the order of the Board financial statements under IFRSs as adopted irregularities.
by the European Union and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Alexander Frolov Chief Executive Officer, EVRAZ plc 28 February 2017 www.
com 135 136 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Contents Independent Auditors Report.................... 138 Consolidated Financial Statements.......... 146 Consolidated Statement of Operations........................................ 146 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income................... 147 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position............................. 148 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows........................................ 149 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity............................. 150 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements........................ 154 1.
Investments in Joint Ventures and Associates............... 195 12.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies.... 223 29.
