Definitions of selected alternative performance measures Definition Free Cash Flow is not a measure under IFRS In 2015, management changed the definition and should not be considered as an alternative of segment expense and EBITDA to make of Free Cash Flow to other measures of financial position.
EVRAZ these indicators more comparable with the Free Cash Flow represents EBITDA, net of noncalculation of Free Cash Flow may be different Russian steel peers.
Starting from the 2015 cash items, less changes in working capital, from the calculation used by other companies consolidated financial statements, segment income tax paid, interest paid and covenant and therefore comparability may be limited.
expense does not include social and social reset charges, conversion premiums, premiums infrastructure maintenance expenses, and on early repurchase of bonds and realised profit loss from operations is adjusted for gain losses on interest payments under swap Definition of EBITDA these expenses in arriving at EBITDA.
As a contracts, interest income and debt issue costs, result, the Group restated EBITDA based on less capital expenditure, including recorded in EBITDA is determined as a segments profit loss both IFRS and management accounts for the financing activities, purchases of subsidiaries, from operations adjusted for social and social years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013. net of cash acquired, proceeds from sale of infrastructure maintenance expenses, impairment disposals classified as held for sale, net of of assets, profit loss on disposal of property, transaction costs, less purchases of treasury plant and equipment and intangible assets, See note 3 of the consolidated financial statement on page 173 shares for participants of the incentive plans, foreign exchange gains losses and depreciation, for additional information.
plus other cash flows from investing activities.
Cash and short-term Calculation of cash and short-term bank deposits, US$ million bank deposits 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Change Change, % Cash and short-term bank deposits is Cash and cash equivalents 1,157 1,375 218 16 not a measure under IFRS and should not be considered as an alternative to Cash of disposals 2 - 2 n a other measures of financial position.
classified as held for sale EVRAZ calculation of cash and short-term Collateral under swaps - - - - bank deposits may be different from the calculation used by other companies and Cash and short-term 1,159 1,375 216 16 % therefore comparability may be limited.
bank deposits Total debt Calculation of total debt, US$ million Total debt represents the nominal value of 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Change Change, % loans and borrowings plus unpaid interest, Long-term loans, net of 5,502 5,850 348 6 finance lease liabilities, loans of assets current portion classified as held for sale, and the nominal effect of cross-currency swaps on principal Short-term loans and current 392 497 105 21 of rouble-denominated notes.
Total debt is portion of long-term loans not a measure under IFRS and should not Add back: Unamortised 43 47 4 9 be considered as an alternative to other debt issue costs and measures of financial position.
EVRAZ fair value adjustment calculation of total debt may be different from to liabilities assumed the calculation used by other companies and in business combination therefore comparability may be limited.
The Nominal effect of 19 325 306 94 current calculation is different from that used cross-currency swaps for covenant compliance calculations.
on principal of roubledenominated notes Finance lease liabilities, 5 5 - - including current portion Total debt 5,961 6,724 763 11 260 Additional information Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Net debt Calculation of net debt, US$ million Net debt represents total debt less cash and 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Change Change, % liquid short-term financial assets, including Total debt 5,961 6,724 763 11 those related to disposals classified as held for sale.
Net debt is not a measure under IFRS and Short-term bank deposits - - - - should not be considered as an alternative to Cash and cash equivalents 1,157 1,375 218 16 other measures of financial position.
EVRAZ calculation of net debt may be different from Cash of assets classified 2 - 2 n a the calculation used by other companies and as held for sale therefore comparability may be limited.
The Collateral under swaps - - - - current calculation is different from that used for covenant compliance calculations.
Net debt 4,802 5,349 547 10 Labor productivity, Raw materials from EVRAZ coal and iron ore producers are accounted for on at-cost-basis.
US$ t P S V Costs of semi-finished steel products S - Labor Costs asset and A-category of EVRAZ NTMK, EVRAZ ZSMK are then subsidiaries, exclusive of tax, local currency weighted averaged by the total saleable on Division consolidation sites with semi-finished products production volume.
different currencies, $ V - production volume, tn.
for steel assets: V - metal products shipped.
Coking coal concentrate cash cost, US$ t LTIFR Cash cost of coking coal concentrate is defined as cost of revenues less The KPI is calculated on a year-to-date basis depreciation and SG&A, the result is divided for the company employees only.
LTIFR X1000000 Y X is the total number of occupational Number of EBS injuries resulted in lost time among the transformations company employees in the reporting period.
Number of EBS transformations Y is the actual total number of man-hours implemented at the key assets during the worked by all company employees in the reporting year.
Customer focus and Semi-finished products cost-cutting effects cash costs, US$ t Each project effect is calculated as an Cash cost of semi-finished products absolute deviation of targeted metri year to is defined as the production cost less year multiplied by relevant price or volume depreciation, the result is divided by depending on projects focus.
production volumes of steel semi-products.
