174 Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 E. Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments i Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing the financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of income, costs and charges, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of the financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The most significant of these estimates and assumptions for the Company that has a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is in respect of the carrying value of investments in subsidiary undertakings.
ii Critical judgments In applying the Companys accounting policies, management may make judgments that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Company financial statements.
These judgments may include the classification of transactions between the Company income statement and the Company balance sheet.
The most significant of these judgments for the Company is in respect of contingencies where, in the case of pending and threatened litigation claims, management has formed a judgment as to the likelihood of ultimate liability.
No liability has been recognised where the likelihood of any loss arising is possible rather than probable.
F. Other operating income and charges Other operating income and charges principally comprise charges to and from other Group undertakings in respect of Group management services provided during the year.
Other operating charges include a fee of US$0.4m 2015: US$0.4m payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Group financial statements.
G. Staff costs 2016 2015 US$m US$m Directors fees 2.4 2.7 Wages and salaries 1.0 1.0 Social security costs 0.1 0.1 Other pension costs 0.1 0.1 3.6 3.9 Executive directors of the Company are employed by other Group undertakings and details of their remuneration, together with that of the non-executive directors, are given in the audited part of the Report on directors remuneration.
The Company had two employees throughout both years.
H. Gain on disposal of fixed asset investment During the year ended 31 March 2015, a gain of US$7,967.9m arose on the disposal of the Companys holding in the ordinary shares of Experian Investments Holdings Limited to a fellow subsidiary undertaking, in connection with a Group reorganisation see note M. I.
Interest receivable and similar income 2016 2015 US$m US$m Gain in connection with commitments to purchase own shares 2.5 J.
Interest payable and similar charges 2016 2015 US$m US$m Interest on amounts owed to Group undertakings 0.3 Foreign exchange losses 0.5 43.2 Loss in connection with commitments to purchase own shares 0.3 0.8 43.5
