128 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 7.
Financial risk management a Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks.
These are market risk, including foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk.
These risks are unchanged from those reported in the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The numeric disclosures in respect of financial risks are included within later notes to the financial statements, to provide a more transparent link between financial risks and results.
Financial risks represent part of the Groups risks in relation to its strategy and business objectives.
There is a full discussion of the most significant risks in the Principal risks section of this Annual Report.
The Groups financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potentially adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group seeks to reduce its exposure to financial risks and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
However the Group does not, nor does it currently intend to, borrow in the Brazilian real or the Colombian peso.
The Group also ensures surplus funds are prudently managed and controlled.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and investments in, and loans between, Group undertakings with different functional currencies.
The Group manages such risk, primarily within undertakings whose functional currencies are US dollars, by: entering into forward foreign exchange contracts in the relevant currencies in respect of investments in entities with functional currencies other than US dollars, whose net assets are exposed to foreign exchange translation risk: swapping the proceeds of certain bonds issued in sterling and euros into US dollars: denominating internal loans in relevant currencies, to match the currencies of assets and liabilities in entities with different functional currencies: and using forward foreign exchange contracts for certain future commercial transactions.
The principal transaction exposures are to sterling and the euro.
An indication of the sensitivity to foreign exchange risk is given in note 9.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises principally from its net debt and the amounts at variable rates.
The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 50% and 100% of net funding at rates that are fixed for more than six months.
The Group manages its interest rate exposure by: using fixed and floating rate borrowings and interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to adjust the balance between the two: and mixing the duration of borrowings and interest rate swaps to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
Further information in respect of the Groups net finance costs for the year and an indication of the sensitivity to interest rate risk is given in note 14. Credit risk In the case of derivative financial instruments, deposits and trade receivables, the Group is exposed to credit risk from the nonperformance of contractual agreements by the contracted party.
Credit risk is managed by: only entering into contracts for derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation: and closely controlling dealing activity and regularly monitoring counterparty positions.
Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements 129 The credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised and deposits held by the Group is therefore not considered to be significant.
The Group does not anticipate that any losses will arise from non-performance by its chosen counterparties.
Further information on the Groups derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet dates is given in note 27 and that in respect of amounts recognised in the Group income statement is given in note 14.
Further information on the Groups deposits at the balance sheet dates is given in note 23.
To minimise credit risk for trade receivables, the Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential clients before granting credit.
The maximum credit risk in respect of such financial assets is their carrying value.
Further information in respect of the Groups trade receivables is given in note 22.
Liquidity risk The Group manages liquidity risk by: issuing long maturity bonds and notes: entering into long-term committed bank borrowing facilities, to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available for operations and planned growth: and monitoring rolling cash flow forecasts, to ensure the Group has adequate borrowing facilities.
Details of such facilities are given in note 25.
A maturity analysis of contractual undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities is given in note 29. b Capital risk management The Groups definition and management of capital focuses on capital employed: The Groups capital employed is reported in the net assets summary table set out in the Financial review and analysed by segment in note 8 a ii.
As part of its internal reporting processes, the Group monitors capital employed by operating segment.
The Groups objectives in managing capital are to: safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders: and maintain an optimal capital structure and cost of capital.
The Groups policy is to have: a prudent but efficient balance sheet: and a target gearing ratio of 2.0 to 2.5 times EBITDA, consistent with the intention to retain strong investment-grade credit ratings.
To maintain or adjust its capital structure, the Group may: adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders: return capital to shareholders: issue or purchase shares: or sell assets to reduce net debt.
