172 Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 A.
Corporate information Corporate information for Experian plc the Company is set out in note 1 to the Group financial statements, with further information given in the Strategic report and the Corporate governance report.
Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented voluntarily and are: prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance with UK accounting standards: presented in US dollars, the Companys functional currency: and designed to include disclosures in line with those required by those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under UK accounting standards even though the Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey.
The Companys previous financial statements were prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
Following the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 100 Application of financial reporting requirements coming into effect, the directors have opted to prepare these financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced disclosure framework.
That intention was communicated to the Companys shareholders in June 2015.
FRS 101 will also be used where appropriate by the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
This will simplify external reporting requirements for the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in the UK and Ireland.
FRS 101 allows certain exemptions from the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS to avoid the duplication of information provided in the Group financial statements and to provide more concise financial reporting in entity financial statements.
The following exemptions have therefore been applied in the preparation of these financial statements: Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Share-based payment, so exempting the Company from providing details of share options and of how the fair value of services received was determined.
Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, so exempting the Company from disclosing valuation techniques and inputs used for the measurement of assets and liabilities.
Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, so exempting the Company from disclosing comparative information required by: paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of that period: and paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment reconciliations between the carrying amount at the beginning and end of that period.
The following paragraphs of IAS 1: paragraphs 10 d and 111, so exempting the Company from providing a cash flow statement and information: paragraph 16, so exempting the Company from providing a statement of compliance with all IFRS: paragraph 38A, so exempting the Company from the requirement for a minimum of two of each primary statement and the related notes: paragraphs 38B to D, so exempting the Company from the requirement to provide additional comparative information: paragraphs 40A to D, so exempting the Company from the requirement to provide a third statement of financial position: and paragraphs 134 to 136, so exempting the Company from presenting capital management disclosures.
IAS 7 Statement of cash flows.
Paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, so exempting the Company from disclosing information where it has not applied a new IFRS which has been issued but is not yet effective.
Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related party disclosures, so exempting the Company from disclosing details of key management compensation: and the requirements in IAS 24 Related party disclosures to disclose related party transactions with wholly-owned members of the Group.
The use of critical accounting estimates and management judgment is required in applying the accounting policies.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Company financial statements, are highlighted in note E.
