F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Glossary of Terms Corporate Terms AAF Audit and Assurance Faculty guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
AIC Association of Investment Companies.
This is the trade body for Closed-end Investment Companies theaic.
AIFMD Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Issued by the European Parliament in 2012 and 2013, the Directive requires that all investment vehicles in the European Union, including Closed-end Investment Companies, must have appointed a Depositary and an Alternative Investment Fund Manager before 22 July 2014.
The Board of Directors of a Closed-end Investment Company, nevertheless, remains fully responsible for all aspects of the companys strategy, operations and compliance with regulations.
Benchmark This is a measure against which an Investment Companys performance is compared.
The Company does not have a formal Benchmark but does report its performance against the MSCI Investment Property Databank IPD Quarterly Universe, which is used to determine whether a performance fee is payable to the Managers see note 2 to the Accounts.
Closed-end Investment Company A company with a fixed issued ordinary share capital which is traded on an exchange at a price not necessarily related to the Net Asset Value of the company and where shares can only be issued or bought back by the company in certain circumstances.
This contrasts with an open-ended investment company, which has units not traded on an exchange but issued or bought back from investors at a price directly related to the Net Asset Value.
Depositary Under AIFMD rules applying from July 2014, the Company must appoint a Depositary, whose duties in respect of investments, cash and similar assets include: safekeeping: verification of ownership and valuation: and cash monitoring.
Under AIFMD regulations, the Depositary has strict liability for the loss of the Companys financial assets in respect of which it has safekeeping duties.
The Depositarys oversight duties include, but are not limited to, oversight of share buy backs, dividend payments and adherence to investment limits.
The Companys Depositary is JP Morgan Europe Limited.
Dividend The income from an investment.
The Company currently pays dividends to shareholders monthly.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This includes UK GAAP and International GAAP IFRS or International Financial Reporting Standards applicable in the European Union.
The Companys financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted in the European Union.
Gearing Unlike open-ended investment companies, Closed-end Investment Companies have the ability to borrow to invest.
This term is used to describe the level of borrowings that an Investment Company has undertaken.
The higher the level of borrowings, the higher the gearing ratio.
Leverage As defined under AIFMD rules, leverage is any method by which the exposure of an AIF is increased through borrowing of cash or securities or leverage embedded in derivative positions.
Leverage is broadly equivalent to Gearing, but is expressed as a ratio between the assets excluding borrowings and the net assets after taking account of borrowing.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after deduction of cash balances, without taking account of any hedging or netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
Managers The Companys investment managers are F&C Investment Business Limited, and its property managers are BMO REP Asset Management plc.
Further details are set out on pages 4 and in note 2a to the accounts.
Market Capitalisation The stock market value of a company as determined by multiplying the number of shares in issue, excluding those shares held in treasury, by the market price of the shares.
Net Assets or Shareholders Funds This is calculated as the value of the investments and other assets of an Investment Company, plus cash and debtors, less borrowings and any other creditors.
It represents the underlying value of an Investment Company at a point in time.
Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share This is calculated as the net assets of an Investment Company divided by the number of shares in issue, excluding those shares held in treasury.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust.
A tax regime which in the UK exempts participants from corporation tax both on UK rental income and gains arising on UK investment property sales, subject to certain requirements.
Ordinary Shares The main type of equity capital issued by conventional Investment Companies.
Shareholders are entitled to their share of both income, in the form of dividends paid by the Investment Company, and any capital growth.
As at 31 December 2016 the Company had only Ordinary Shares in issue.
Share Price The value of a share at a point in time as quoted on a stock exchange.
The Companys Ordinary Shares are quoted on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
SORP Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts issued by the AIC.
Total Assets This is calculated as the value of the investments and other assets of an Investment Company, plus cash and debtors.
64 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION Property Terms Break Option A clause in a Lease which provides the landlord or tenant with an ability to terminate the Lease before its contractual expiry date.
Covenant Strength This refers to the quality of a tenants financial status and its ability to perform the covenants in the Lease.
Estimated Rental Value ERV The estimated annual market rental value of a property as determined by the Companys External Valuer.
This will normally be different from the actual rent being paid.
External Valuer An independent external valuer of a property.
The Companys External Valuer is CBRE Limited and detailed information regarding the valuation of the Companys properties is included in note 9 to the accounts.
Fixed and Minimum Uplift Rents Rents subject to fixed uplifts at an agreed level on agreed dates stipulated within the Lease, or rents subject to contracted minimum uplifts at specified review dates.
Lease A legally binding contract between a landlord and a tenant which sets out the basis on which the tenant is permitted to occupy a property, including the Lease length.
Lease Incentive A payment used to encourage a tenant to take on a new Lease, for example by a landlord paying a tenant a sum of money to contribute to the cost of a tenant's fit-out of a property or by allowing a rent free period.
Lease Re-gear This term is used to describe the renegotiation of a Lease during the term and is often linked to another Lease event, for example a Break Option or Rent Review.
Lease Renewal The renegotiation of a Lease with the existing Tenant at its contractual expiry.
Lease Surrender An agreement whereby the landlord and tenant bring a Lease to an end other than by contractual expiry or the exercise of a Break Option.
This will frequently involve the negotiation of a surrender premium by one party to the other.
Net Income The net income from a property after deducting ground rent and non-recoverable expenditure.
Net Initial Yield The initial Net Income from a property at the date of purchase, expressed as a percentage of the gross purchase price including the costs of purchase.
Rent Review A periodic review of rent during the term of a Lease, as provided for within a Lease agreement.
Reversion Increase in rent estimated by the Companys External Valuer, where the passing rent is below the ERV.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews and lettings.
Tenant's Improvements This term is used to describe a wide range of works that are usually carried out by a tenant, at its own cost, and usually require the landlords prior approval.
Voids or Vacancy The amount of rent relating to properties which are unoccupied and generating no rental income.
Stated as a percentage of ERV.
