F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED How to Invest How to Invest One of the most convenient ways to invest in F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited is through one of the savings plans run by F&C Investments.
One of the most convenient ways to invest in Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is through one of the savings plans run by F&C.
Charges F&C Investment Trust ISA Annual management charges and other charges apply according to the type of plan.
You can use your ISA allowance to make an annual taxAnnual account charge efficient investment of up to 20,000 for the 2017 18 tax ISA: 60 VAT year with a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from 50 a month per Trust.
You can also transfer any existing ISAs to PIP: 40 VAT us whilst maintaining the tax benefits JISA CIP CTF: 25 VAT You can pay the annual charge from your account, or by direct debit in addition to F&C Junior ISA JISA any annual subscription limits You can invest up to 4,128 for the tax year 2017 18 from Dealing charges 500 lump sum or 30 a month per Trust, or a combination ISA: 0.2% of both.
Please note, if your child already has a Child Trust Fund CTF, then you cannot open a separate JISA, however JISA CIP PIP: postal instructions 12, online instructions 8 per Trust you can transfer the existing CTF held either with F&C or Dealing charges apply when shares are bought or sold but not on the reinvestment another provider to an F&C JISA of dividends or the investment of monthly direct debits for the PIP, CIP and JISA.
There are no dealing charges on a CTF but a switching charge of 25 applies if F&C Child Trust Fund CTF more than two switches are carried out in one year.
If your child has a CTF you can invest up to 4,128 for the 2017 18 tax year, from 100 lump sum or 25 a month Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on the purchase of shares where per Trust, or a combination of both.
You can also transfer a applicable.
CTF from another provider to an F&C CTF.
Please note, the There may be additional charges made if you transfer a plan to another provider or CTF has been replaced by the JISA and is only available to transfer the shares from your plan.
investors who already hold a CTF.
For full details of our savings plans and charges, please read the Key Features and F&C Private Investor Plan PIP Terms and Conditions of the plan available on our website fandc.
This is a flexible way to invest in our range of Investment Trusts.
There are no maximum contributions, and investments HOW TO INVEST can be made from 500 lump sum or 50 a month per Trust.
To open a new F&C savings plan, apply online at fandc.
com apply You can also make additional lump sum top-ups at any time Note, this is not available if you are transferring an existing plan with another from 250 per Trust.
provider to F&C, or if you are applying for a new plan in more than one name.
Existing Plan Holders: New Customers: F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan CIP Call: 0345 600 3030 Call: 0800 136 420 This is a flexible way to save for a child in our range of 9:00am 5:00pm, weekdays 8:30am 5:30pm, weekdays.
There are no maximum contributions, and the plan can easily be set up under bare trust where the child Email: investor.
com is noted as the beneficial owner or kept in your name if you By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre wish to retain control over the investment.
Investments can be PO Box 11114 made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a month per Trust.
You Chelmsford CM99 2DG can also make additional lump sum top-ups at any time from You can also invest in the trust through online dealing platforms for private investors 100 per Trust.
that offer share dealing and ISAs.
Companies include: Alliance Trust Savings, The CTF and JISA accounts are opened in the childs name and they have Barclays Stockbrokers, Halifax, Hargreaves Lansdown, HSBC, Interactive access to the money at age 18.
Investor, LLoyds Bank, Selftrade, TD Direct Investing, The Share Centre.
Calls may be recorded or monitored for training and quality purposes.
The value of investments can go down as well as up and you may not get back your original investment.
Tax benets depend on your individual circumstances and tax F&C Management Limited allowances and rules may change.
Please read our Key Features Document before you F&C Investments and the F&C Investments logo are trademarks of F&C Management Limited.
invest and this can be found on our website fandc.
F&C cannot give advice on the F&C Management Limited 2017.
Issued and approved by F&C Management Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FRN: 119230 and is a member suitability of investing in our investment trust or savings plans.
If you have any doubt as to of the F&C Group of which the ultimate parent company is the Bank of Montreal.
Registered Office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
Registered in England & Wales the suitability of an investment, please contact a professional financial adviser.
L56 02 17 CM11982 86 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC 66 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
