ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES When assessing and discussing the Groups reported financial performance, financial position and cash flows, management may make reference to Alternative Performance Measures APMs that are not defined or specified under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The APMs used by the Group fall into two categories: Financial APMs: These financial measures are usually derived from the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Non-financial APMs: These measures incorporate certain non-financial information which management believes is useful when assessing the performance of the Group.
APMs are not uniformly defined by all companies, including those in the Groups industry.
Accordingly, the APMs used by the Group may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures made by other companies.
APMs should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or as superior to, measures of financial performance, financial position or cash flows reported in accordance with IFRS.
Non-financial: Iron ore price The PLATTS 62% Fe CFR China price for iron ore fines is an important industry indicator of the overall level of demand for iron ore. Production of The Group reports production of its premium pellets which includes Ferrexpo Premium Pellets FPP, premium pellets containing 65% Fe, and Ferrexpo premium pellets plus FPP, containing 65% Fe with enhanced basicity and low temperature disintegration properties.
Ferrexpos strategy is to sell high quality pellets to its customer base.
Thus the level of production of premium pellets is an important indicator of whether the Group is adhering to its strategy.
Sales volumes Indicate the level of demand for the Groups products.
LTIFR Lost time injuries frequency rate LTIFR per million man hours worked across the Companys mining and processing operations in Ukraine and its barging subsidiary on the Danube River.
The Group presents LTIFR because it believes that it is an important indicator of how safe the work environment is.
Financial: C1 cash cost Represents the cash costs of production of iron pellets from own ore divided by production volume of own of production ore. Non-C1 cost components include non-cash costs such as depreciation, inventory movements and costs of purchased ore and concentrate.
The Group presents the C1 cash cost of production because it believes it is a useful measure of its cost competitiveness compared to its peer group.
EBITDA The Group calculates EBITDA as profit from continuing operations before tax and finance plus depreciation and amortisation and non-recurring exceptional items included in other income and other expenses, share-based payment expenses and the net of gains and losses from disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment.
The Group presents EBITDA because it believes it is a useful measure for evaluating its ability to generate cash and its operating performance.
Net debt Net financial indebtedness as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents less interestbearing loans and borrowings.
It provides an indication of the degree of indebtedness of the Group.
Net debt to EBITDA Net financial indebtedness divided by EBITDA both as described above.
The ratio is a measurement of the Groups leverage, calculated as a companys interest-bearing liabilities minus cash or cash equivalents, divided by its EBITDA.
Capital expenditure Capital expenditure is defined as sustaining and development cash expenditure on property, plant and capex equipment as shown in the Groups statement of cash flows.
It indicates the level of investment into the Groups asset base to maintain and develop its businesses.
FERREXPO PLC 16 3 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
