Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the Financial and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law Statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give financial statements for each financial period.
Under that law they a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position have elected to prepare the Financial Statements in accordance and loss of the Company: and the Strategic Report and with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Directors Report include a fair review of the development and adopted by the European Union.
performance of the business and the position of the Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties The Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and it faces.
We confirm that we consider the Annual Report and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the loss for Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and the period.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business In preparing these Financial Statements the Directors are required model and strategy.
to: Approved by the Board on 1 June 2016 and signed on its behalf.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the John Owen Financial Statements: Chairman prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in business: and confirm that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, a Corporate Governance Statement and a Directors Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors have delegated responsibility for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys pages of the Managers website at www.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the Financial Statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
34 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
