Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure In compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FISL has delegated the investment management other than in unlisted securities to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
It has delegated the investment management of the unlisted securities and the company secretarial function to FIL Investments International another Fidelity group company.
Details of the Management Agreements can be found in the Directors Report on page 23.
The table below discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure Investment The AIFM provides portfolio management of assets and investment Details of the Companys investment management advice in relation to the assets of the Company.
objective, strategy and investment policy, including limits, are on pages 10 and 11.
It has delegated this function to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited other than the unlisted securities and for unlisted securities to FIL Investments International.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and the AIFM operates within these guidelines.
Risk management The AIFM has a responsibility for risk management for the The AIFM has an ongoing process for Company which is in addition to the Boards corporate governance identifying, evaluating and managing the responsibility for risk management.
principal risks faced by the Company and this is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Company has a Risk Management Process Document which is The Board remains responsible for the agreed with the Board and demonstrates that risk management is Companys system of internal control and separated functionally and hierarchically from operating units and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Manager maintains details can be found in the Strategic Report adequate risk management systems in order to identify, measure on pages 12 and 13 and in Note 18 to the and monitor all risks at least annually under AIFMD.
The Manager Financial Statements on pages 57 to 64. is responsible for the implementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, risk profile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remain responsible for the identification of significant risks and for the ongoing review of the Companys risk management and internal control processes.
Valuation of The Directive requires the disclosure of the percentage of the AIFs Not Applicable.
illiquid assets assets which are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
Further, any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company must be disclosed.
Leverage The Company uses leverage to increase its exposure primarily The maximum leverage limits are 1.80 to the stockmarkets of China or Hong Kong and currently holds for the Gross Method of calculating long Contracts For Difference to achieve this.
The AIFM has leverage and 1.50 for the Commitment set maximum levels of leverage that are reasonable.
There have been no changes to implemented systems to calculate and monitor compliance the maximum level of leverage that the against these limits and has ensured that the limits have been Company may employ during the year.
complied with at all times.
At 31 March 2016, actual leverage was A definition of leverage is included in the Glossary of Terms on 1.35 for the Gross Method and 1.31 for the page 71.
Liquidity The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, maintains a liquidity No new arrangements for managing the management management policy which is considered at least annually.
liquidity of the Company have been made.
Further details can be found in Note 18 on page 61.
Remuneration of the The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelitys Global The FCAs General Guidance on the AIFM AIFM Remuneration Policy Statement.
This ensures that the AIFM Remuneration Code has established that complies with the requirements of the FCAs Remuneration Code the first reporting year will not commence SYSC19A : the AIFM Remuneration Code SYSC19B and the until after the AIFMs first full performance BIPRU Remuneration Code SYSC19C.
Accordingly, there is no data to disclose in respect of remuneration of the AIFM for this year.
76 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 22 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Contents Strategy 1 Investment Objective and Performance 2 Summary of Results 3 Chairmans Statement 6 Portfolio Managers Review We have striven successfully to make the 10 Strategic Report 15 Forty Largest Holdings Company a cornerstone investment for those 18 Distribution of the Portfolio 19 Attribution Analysis seeking Chinese equity exposure China is 19 Ten Highest contributors and now, by some measures, the largest economy detractors to NAV total return 20 Record since Launch in the world, and the Board believes that when Governance 21 Board of Directors building a balanced portfolio, the country is 23 Directors Report simply too big to ignore.
For those investing in a 26 Corporate Governance Statement 31 Directors Remuneration Report well-balanced global portfolio for the long term, 34 Statement of Directors Responsibilities either professionally or privately, a proportion 35 Report of the Audit Committee held in China must warrant consideration: and Financial 37 Independent Auditors Report the Board believes that Fidelity China Special 43 Income Statement 44 Statement of Changes in Equity Situations PLC is the right vehicle to provide this 45 Balance Sheet 46 Cash Flow Statement exposure.
47 Notes to the Financial Statements John Owen, Chairman Shareholder information 66 Notice of Meeting 70 Glossary to the Annual Report 74 Shareholder Information 76 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure TO KNOW LOCAL COMPANIES, KEEP LOCAL COMPANY.
Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report For the year ended 31 March 2016 Fidelity, Fidelity International, the Fidelity International logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certied paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certied in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled bre from genuinewaste paper and 50% virgin bre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a veried, carbon osetting project.
Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
