Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity 12.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and China Special Situations PLC will be held at Merchant Taylors unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB, on 22 July 2016 at the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers 11.00 am for the following purposes: of the Company to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial Company relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal Statements for the year ended 31 March 2016. amount of 552,764 approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended 31 including Treasury Shares as at 1 June 2016 and so that the March 2016 of 1.80 pence per Ordinary Share be paid to Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any shareholders who appear on the register as at close of arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to business on 24 June 2016. deal with Treasury Shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, 3.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Bull as a Director.
any territory or any other matter, such authority to expire at the 4.
To re-elect Mr David Causer as a Director.
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, 5.
To elect Mr John Ford as a Director.
whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of 6.
To re-elect The Hon Peter Pleydell-Bouverie as a Director.
this authority which would or might require relevant securities to 7.
To re-elect Ms Elisabeth Scott as a Director.
be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To elect Ms Vera Hong Wei as a Director.
are revoked, but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of rights already made, offered or agreed to be made 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the pursuant to such authorities.
section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on page 31 for the year ended 31 March 2016.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 12 set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant 10.
To approve the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the general meeting at which Financial Statements are laid before authority given by the said resolution 12 and or to sell the Company.
Ordinary Shares held by the Company as Treasury Shares for 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such remuneration.
allotment, or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions a to the allotment of equity securities or sale of Treasury which will be proposed, in the case of Resolution 12 as an Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 552,764 ordinary resolution and in the case of Resolutions 13 and 14 as approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount special resolutions.
of the issued share capital of the Company including Treasury Shares as at 1 June 2016 : and Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption rights b in either case, by the condition that allotments of equity Resolutions 12 and 13 will, if approved, authorise the Directors securities or sales of Treasury Shares may only be made to allot a limited number of the new Ordinary Shares or sell any pursuant to this authority at a price of not less than the Net Ordinary Shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury Asset Value per share.
for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Board is 10% of the number of Ordinary Shares of the Company Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date including Treasury Shares in issue on 1 June 2016.
The Directors 15months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is will only issue new Ordinary Shares, or dispose of Ordinary Shares the earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to held in Treasury, under this authority in order to take advantage of make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
Any an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this Ordinary Shares held in Treasury would only be re-issued at NAV resolution had not expired.
This would ensure that the net effect of repurchasing and then re-issuing the Ordinary Shares would enhance NAV per share.
66 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 22 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Authority to repurchase shares 15.
THAT the change to the Investment Policy to increase the limit in the unlisted securities that the Company is permitted Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew to invest in from 5% to 10% of Gross Assets, as set out in the the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number Appendix to this Notice of Meeting on page 69, be and is of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding Treasury Shares on 1 June hereby approved and adopted with immediate effect.
2016 for immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury Shares, at the determination of the Board.
Once shares are held By Order of the Board in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in accordance FIL Investments International with the relevant legislation by subsequently selling the shares Secretary for cash or cancelling the shares.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares 1 June 2016 will be at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market Notes: conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the below the prevailing Net Asset Value per share, thereby resulting Annual General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to in an increased Net Asset Value per share.
attend and to speak and vote instead of him.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of Ordinary member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Shares of 1 penny each in the capital of the Company the 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the shares provided that: Registrars at the address on the form to arrive not later than 11.00 am on 20 July 2016.
Completion and return of the form a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently purchased shall be 85,646,036: attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed 1penny: or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is the the Companys Registrars, Capita Asset Services, PXS1, The higher of: i an amount equal to 105% of the average of Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not the middle market quotations for a share taken from the less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than days immediately preceding the day on which the share 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before is purchased: and ii the amount stipulated by Regulatory the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be Technical Standards adopted by the European Commission used.
pursuant to Article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders EU No.
596 2014: the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of be determined by the order in which the names stand in the the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such Register of Members.
authority is renewed prior to such time: and 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after 11.00am on 20 July 2016.
For this purpose, the time of the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the shares pursuant to any such contract.
timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the Change to the Investment Policy message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy Resolution 15 is an ordinary resolution which, if approved, will appointed through CREST should be communicated to the amend the Companys Investment Policy to increase the unlisted proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other securities limit from 5% of Gross Assets to 10% of Gross Assets.
The CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who full text of the Investment Policy and the marked-up change are in have appointed voting service provider s should contact their the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting on page 69.
CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 67 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 22 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Notice of Meeting continued appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST 10.
As at 1 June 2016 the latest practicable date prior to the procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the publication of this document the Companys issued share CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment capital consisted of 571,354,480 Ordinary Shares excluding sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 Treasury Shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any number of voting rights in the Company as at 1 June 2016 was case your proxy form must be received by the Companys 552,764,480.
As at 1 June 2016, there were 18,590,000 shares Registrars no later than 11.00 am on 20 July 2016. held in Treasury by the Company.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual 11.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in Members as at close of business on 20 July 2016. relation to the same shares.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person 12.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, agreement between him and the member by whom he was including communications relating to the Companys securities, nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone made at the meeting.
else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right Company may be required to publish on its website a statement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the the appointment of proxies in note 2 above does not apply to audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting Nominated Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company only be exercised by members of the Company.
ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of website publication to pay its expenses in complying with such those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the requests.
Where the Company is required to place a statement Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency than the time when it makes the statement available on the Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
As a General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has result, any member holding three per cent or more of the been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a publish on its website.
discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation 15.
A copy of this notice and other information required by under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the separate notification to the Company and the Financial Companys website at www.
Note: Please see the Shareholder Information section on pages 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities 74 and 75 for contact details if you have any queries.
Please note Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be that shareholders may not use any electronic address provided entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in either this notice or any related documents including the and for the purpose of determining the number of votes Proxy Form to communicate with the Company for any purposes they may cast, members must be entered on the register of other than those expressly stated.
Shareholders may not use any members by close of business on 20 July 2016.
If the meeting telephone number set out in this document for the purpose of is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered lodging instructions for the Annual General Meeting.
Similarly the on the register of members at close of business on the day Companys website www.
com may not be two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, used to send documents or instructions for the Annual General if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any Meeting.
other time specified in that notice.
Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
68 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 22 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Appendix Proposed change to the Investment Policy The proposed new Investment Policy for the Company, as proposed in resolution 15 on page 67 of this Annual Report, is set out below.
The change to the existing Policy is marked in black-line.
Investment Policy Unlisted securities The Company invests in a diversified portfolio consisting primarily of securities issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong The Company is permitted to invest up to 5% 10% of Gross Assets and Chinese companies listed on other stock exchanges.
The in unlisted securities issued by, and other interests in, entities Company may also obtain exposure to other listed companies carrying on business, or which have significant interests, in China which have significant interests in China or Hong Kong.
The Company may invest through equities, index linked, equity Borrowing and gearing policy linked and other debt securities, cash deposits, money market The Board considers that long-term capital growth can be instruments, foreign currency exchange transactions, equity related enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is securities, forward transactions and other interests including responsible for the level of gearing in the Company and will derivative instruments.
Forward transactions and derivatives, review the position on a regular basis.
including futures, options and contracts for difference, may be used to enhance portfolio performance as well as for efficient The Company may borrow up to 25% of NAV.
Any borrowing, portfolio management and hedging.
The Company may enter except for short-term liquidity purposes, will be used for into derivative contracts that expose the Company to unlimited investment.
The Company may also use derivative instruments for liability but only where the exposure to the counterparty, after gearing purposes, in which case the investment restrictions will taking into account other derivative contracts entered into with be calculated on the basis that the Company has acquired the the counterparty, does not exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
No single securities to which the derivatives are providing exposure.
investment will, on acquisition, represent more than 15% of the portfolio value.
The Investment Managers are not required to seek The Board has adopted the policy that the Gross Asset Exposure to ensure that the Companys cash resources are fully invested of the Company, whether from borrowing or derivatives, will not at all times.
Accordingly, there may be times when the Company exceed the NAV of the Company by more than 30%.
holds cash or money market instruments pending investment.
The Company currently invests in China A Shares through third parties who have a QFII license and quota and indirectly through other investments, equity linked securities, derivatives and collective investment schemes and is able to invest directly, through the Investment Managers QFII license.
The Company is also likely to seek exposure to China A Shares through indirect investment which, for the purpose of the investment restrictions, will be treated as investments in the underlying securities to which the indirect investment gives exposure.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 69 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 22 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Glossary to the Annual Report AIC Chinese Renminbi The Association of Investment Companies.
The Company is a Currency of the PRC.
Chinese Stock Exchanges AIF The Shanghai Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Alternative Investment Fund.
any other stock exchange located within the PRC from time to time.
AIFM Collateral Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
The Board has appointed Assets provided as security.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited to act as the Companys AIFM.
Contract for Dierence CFD A Contract For Difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between AIFMD the Company and an investment bank at the end of which the The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive is a European parties exchange the difference between the opening price and Union Directive implemented on 22 July 2014. the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the Auditor underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in its share price.
A Contract For Difference allows the Company to Ernst & Young LLP or such other auditor, as the Company may gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a appoint from time to time.
small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or fall, Benchmark Index by selling short position.
If the Company holds long positions, MSCI China Index total return in UK sterling and is a composite dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the Company holds of China B, H, Red Chip and P Chip share classes.
short positions, dividends are paid.
Capita Asset Services Custodian The Companys Registrar.
An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, Cenkos Securities proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys Custodian is The Companys Broker.
China A Shares Debt Shares traded on the Chinese Stock Exchanges in Chinese Bank borrowings and long Contracts For Difference.
Foreign investors were unable to participate in the ChinaA Shares market until the introduction of the QFII program Depositary in 2002 which provided a legal framework for licensed QFIIs to An entity that oversees the custody, cash arrangements and other invest in China A shares on the Chinese Stock exchanges and AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited certain other securities previously not eligible for investment by act as the Companys Depositary.
Derivatives China B Shares Financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of Shares traded on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shanghai an underlying asset or other financial instruments such as stocks, Stock Exchange in Hong Kong dollars and US dollars, respectively.
bonds, currency exchange rates, real estate and commodities, or The shares were originally intended to be available only to foreign market benchmarks such as interest rates.
The main categories individuals and institutional investors, however, since February of derivatives are Contracts For Difference, warrants, futures, and 2001 they have been available to domestic individual investors options.
who trade through legal foreign currency accounts.
Discount China H Shares If the share price of the Company is lower than the Net Asset Shares in companies incorporated in the PRC and listed on the Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to be Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
They are available to non-Chinese trading at a discount.
It is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset investors and are traded in Hong Kong dollars on the Hong Kong Value per Ordinary Share.
70 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 22 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Equity Linked Notes or ELN Index Linked Securities Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to specific Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to changes equities or equity markets.
The return on equity linked notes may in interest rates, stock exchanges, or other price indices.
be determined by an equity index, a basket of equities, or a singleequity.
Initial Public Oering IPO An initial public offering IPO is the first sale of stock by a private Fair Value company to the public.
IPOs are often issued by smaller, younger The carrying value in the Balance Sheet which represents the companies seeking the capital to expand, but can also be done amount that would be received or paid on disposal of the by large privately owned companies looking to become publicly financial asset or liability.
FIL Investment Manager FIL Limited and each of its subsidiaries.
FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
FIL Limited Investment Managers The ultimate parent company of the FIL Group of companies.
Together, represents the Investment Manager and the Unlisted Incorporated in Bermuda.
Fidelity Leverage FIL Investments International.
Any method by which an AIFM increases the exposure of an AIF it manages whether through borrowing cash or securities, or Forward Currency Contract leverage embedded in derivative positions or by any other means.
An agreement to buy or sell a currency, commodity or other asset Leverage is measured in terms of exposure and is expressed as a at a specified future date and at a predetermined price.
It is not ratio of Net Asset Value.
There are two measures of leverage.
The standardised and is not traded on organised exchanges.
key difference between them is that: The Gross Method does not reduce exposure for hedging: and Future or Future Contract An agreement to buy or sell a stated amount of a security, The Commitment Method does reduce exposure for hedging.
currency or commodity at a specific future date and at a pre-agreed price.
Management Agreement The agreement between FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Gearing Limited and the Company regarding the management of the Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets.
Gross Assets Management Agreements Net Assets plus borrowings.
Together, represents the Management Agreement and the Unlisted Management Agreement.
Gross Asset Exposure The value of the portfolio to which the Company is exposed, Management Fee whether through direct or indirect investment including the The annual management fee is 1.0% of the Net Asset Value of the economic value of the exposure in the underlying asset of Company for the year ended 31 March 2016. thederivatives, but excluding forward currency contracts.
MSCI China Index Hedging The Benchmark Index of the investment performance of the A hedge position demonstrates risk reduction qualities by Company, UK sterling equivalent.
delivering short exposure to an asset which has regional congruence and a correlation of at least 80% to long exposures MSCI China Mid Cap Index in the Companys portfolio.
It therefore distinguishes itself from Designed to measure the performance of the mid cap segment a short which is a position not opened with the objective of of the China market.
The Index represents approximately 15% of reducing the long exposure in the portfolio.
Qualifying hedge the free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity exposures do not count towards the short exposure limits.
the purposes of calculating Gross Asset Exposure, the exposure attributed to the hedge positions will be deducted from the exposure of the corresponding long positions.
Short positions are added to long positions in arriving at the Gross Asset Exposure.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 71 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 22 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Glossary to the Annual Report continued MSCI China Small Cap Index Portfolio Designed to measure the performance of the small cap segment The Companys portfolio which may be made up of equities, index of the China market.
The Index represents approximately 14% of linked securities, equity linked notes and other debt securities, the free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity cash deposits, money market instruments, foreign currency universe.
exchange transactions and other interests including derivative instruments such as futures, options and Contracts For Difference.
Net Asset Value NAV Premium Net Asset Value is sometimes described as Shareholders Funds and is the total value of the Companys assets less the total value If the share price of the Company is higher than the Net Asset of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is common to express the Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to be Net Asset Value on a per share basis.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share Prospectus The NAV per Ordinary Share is calculated as Shareholders Funds divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Prospectus of the Company dated 7 January 2011.
Options QFII An option is a contract which gives the right but not the obligation The Investment Manager is a QFII a Qualified Foreign Institutional to buy or sell an underlying asset at an agreed price on or before Investor and as such has been granted a QFII licence by the an agreed date.
Options may be call or put and are used to gain China Securities Regulatory Commission CSRC which permits or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis.
the Company to invest in China A Shares through the Investment Manager and has received an allocation of quota for onshore P Chips investment from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC SAFE.
Companies controlled by mainland individuals, with the establishment and origin of the company in mainland China.
Red Chips PChips are incorporated outside of the Peoples Republic of China PRC and traded on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong with Companies incorporated outside China but which are based in a majority of revenues or assets derived from Mainland China.
Red Chips are listed on, and are required to observe the filing and reporting requirements of, the Hong Kong Performance Fee Stock Exchange.
Red Chips typically have a significant portion of The Investment Managers are entitled to an annual performance their business interests located in mainland China and many are owned, either directly or indirectly, by organisations or enterprises fee of 15% of any change in NAV attributable to performance controlled by the Chinese state, provinces or municipalities.
which is more than 2% above the returns on the MSCI China Index total return net in UK sterling after making good any Registrar cumulative under-performance, including the 2% hurdle, carried forward from previous years, subject to a maximum performance The entity that manages the Companys shareholders register.
The fee payable in any year equal to 1.0% of the arithmetic mean of Companys Registrar is Capita Asset Services.
the value of assets with the valuation calculated at the end of each month during the year.
Return The return generated in a given period from investments: PRC The Peoples Republic of China excluding Taiwan, Hong Kong and Revenue Return reects the dividends and interest from the Macau Special Administrative Region of the PRC.
investments and other income, net of expenses, finance costs and taxation: Pre-emption Rights Capital Return reects the on capital, excluding any capital Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company return: and offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to Total Return reects the aggregate of revenue and capital the nominal value held by existing shareholders.
general meeting, the Board seek shareholder approval to disapply pre-emption rights provision, up to 10% of the Companys issued Secretarial Agreement share capital.
The agreement between the Secretary and Company regarding the provision of company secretarial and administrative services dated 25 February 2010 and novated by a deed dated 17 July 2014.
72 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 22 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Secretary FIL Investments International.
Shareholders Funds Also described as Net Asset Value, Shareholders Funds represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its liabilities as shown in the balance sheet.
Short Stock Exposure The position of the Company when it has sold a security or derivative that it does not own but is now committed to eventually purchase in order to satisfy its obligation to sell.
It is a strategy used to capitalise on an expected decline in the securitys or derivatives price.
Treasury Shares Ordinary Shares of the Company that have been repurchased by the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These shares do not pay dividends, have no voting rights and are excluded from the Net Asset Value calculation.
Unlisted Management Agreement The agreement between the Company and FIL Investment Services UK Limited for the management of the unlisted investments.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited has delegated this function to FIL Investments International.
Unlisted Securities These are securities not listed on a regulated stock exchange.
They are stated at best estimate of fair value, based on recognised valuation techniques which may take account of recent arms length transactions in the investments.
Variable Interest Entity VIE A variable interest entity VIE is an entity where there is a controlling interest that is not based on the majority of voting rights and may result in a risk to an investor being unable to enforce their ownership rights in certain circumstances.
Warrants A derivative security that gives the Company the right to purchase securities usually equity from the issuer at a specific price and within a certain time frame.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 73 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 22 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
