Glossary of Terms Depositary AIF Alternative Investment Fund.
An entity that oversees the custody, cash arrangements and other AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited AIFM act as the Companys Depositary.
The Board has appointed Derivatives FIL Investment Services UK Limited to act as the Companys AIFM the Manager.
Financial instruments such as futures, options and contracts for difference whose value is derived from the value of an underlying AIFMD asset.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive is a European Discount Union Directive implemented on 22 July 2014.
If the share price of the Company is lower than the net asset value Benchmark Index per share, the Company is said to be trading at a discount.
The FTSE World Europe ex UK Index against which the performance discount is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The of the Company is measured.
opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment trust to trade at a discount than a premium.
Capital Gains Tax CGT Fair Value The tax that may be payable if shares are sold at a profit.
The fair value is the best estimate of the value of the investments, including derivatives, at a point in time and this is measured as: Collateral Asset provided as security for the unrealised gain or loss under a Listed investments valued at bid prices, or last market prices, contract for difference.
where available, otherwise at published price quotations: Contract For Di erence CFD Unlisted investments valued using an appropriate valuation A contract for difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between technique in the absence of an active market: the Company and an investment house at the end of which the parties exchange the difference between the opening price and Futures and options valued at the quoted trade price for the the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial contract: and instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement Contracts for di erence valued as the di erence between in its share price.
A contract for difference allows the Company to the settlement price of the contract and the value of the gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a underlying shares in the contract unrealised gains or losses.
small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may reason Futures that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or fall, by An agreement to buy or sell a fixed amount of an asset at a fixed selling short position.
If the Company trades long, dividends future date and a fixed price.
are received and interest is paid.
If the Company trades short, dividends are paid and interest is received.
Gearing Gearing describes the level of the Companys exposure and is Corporation Tax expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
It reflects the The tax the Company may have to pay on its profits for a year.
amount of exposure the Company uses to invest in the market.
It Investment trust companies are exempt from corporation tax can be obtained through the use of bank loans, bank overdrafts on their capital gains and do not pay tax on any UK dividends.
and derivatives, in order to increase the Companys exposure to As they can offset expenses against any taxable income, most market price movements.
The Company uses two key measures of investment trusts do not pay corporation tax and are therefore tax gearing: efficient.
Gross gearing is the total of: long exposures, plus short Custodian exposures and less exposures hedging the portfolio, expressed An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, as a percentage of shareholders funds.
arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys Custodian is Net gearing is the total of: long exposures, less short JPMorgan Chase Bank.
exposures and less exposures hedging the portfolio, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
64 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Ongoing Charges Gross Asset Exposure Gross Asset Exposure measures the expos ure to market price Ongoing charges are the regular, recurring operational expenses movements as a result of owning shares, derivatives and fixedof the Company.
Finance costs, taxation and the costs of buying interest securities.
and selling investments are excluded.
The ongoing charges figure is calculated annually and expresses ongoing charges as a Hedging percentage of the average daily net asset values for the reporting year.
A strategy aimed at minimising or eliminating the risk or loss through adverse movements, normally involving taking a position Options in a derivative such as a future or an option.
An option is a contract which gives the right but not the obligation Investment Manager to buy or sell an underlying asset at a specific price on or before an agreed date.
Options may be calls buy or puts sell and Fil Investments International acts as the Companys Investment are used to gain or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on Manager under delegation from FIL Investment Services UK a conditional basis, for example, the purchase of a call option Limited the AIFM.
provides exposure to the upside potential of an underlying stock, with the downside risk being limited to the premium paid.
Leverage Leverage as defined in the AIFMD is any method by which an Portfolio Manager AIFM increases the exposure of an AIF it manages whether through borrowing cash or securities, or leverage embedded in Sam Morse is the appointed Portfolio Manager of the Company derivative positions or by any other means.
Leverage is measured and is responsible for managing the Companys assets.
in terms of exposure and is expressed as a ratio of net asset Pre-Emption Rights value.
There are two measures of calculating leverage: Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company The Gross Method which does not reduce exposure for offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these hedging: and shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to the nominal value held, to existing shareholders.
At each Annual The Commitment Method which reduces exposure for hedging.
General Meeting, the Board seeks shareholder approval to disapply pre-emption right provisions, up to 5% of the issued share Manager capital of the Company.
FIL Investments Services UK Limited, was appointed as the Manager in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Premium Managers Directive AIFMD, and has delegated, inter alia, If the share price of the Company is higher than the net asset the investment management of the Company to the Investment value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a Manager.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The opposite of a premium is a discount.
Net Asset Value NAV Net asset value is sometimes also described as shareholders Registrar funds, and represents the total value of the Companys assets less An entity that manages the Companys shareholder register.
The the total value of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is common Companys Registrar is Capita Asset Services.
to express the net asset value on a per share basis.
Return Nav per Share cum income The return generated in a given period from the investments: The net asset value per share including the net revenue on ordinary activities after taxation for the period, as shown in the Revenue Return re ects the dividends and interest from revenue column of the Income Statement.
investments and other income, net of expenses, finance costs and taxation: Nav per Share ex i ncome The net asset value per share excluding the net revenue on Capital Return re ects the return on capital, excluding any ordinary activities after taxation for the period.
revenue return: and Total Return re ects the aggregate of revenue and capital returns.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 65 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Glossary of Terms continued Shareholders Funds Shareholders funds are also described as net asset value and represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its liabilities.
Total Return Performance The return on the share price or net asset value per share taking into account the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by the shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in additional shares for share price total return or the Companys assets for net asset value total return.
Treasury Shares Ordinary shares of the Company that have been repurchased by the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These shares do not pay dividends, have no voting rights and are excluded from the net asset value per share calculation.
66 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016
