Notice of Meeting unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers European Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, London of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that EC4M 5TA on 15 May 2017 at 12 noon for the following purposes: section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 520,560 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. issued share capital of the Company including Treasury shares as at 14 March 2017 and so that the Directors may impose 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which 31December 2016 of 4.17 pence per ordinary share be paid they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury to shareholders on the register as at close of business on shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory 24March 2017. or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authority to expire at the conclusion of 3.
To re-elect Mr Vivian Bazalgette as a Director.
the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 4.
To re-elect Mr James Robinson as a Director.
15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to 5.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett as a Director.
make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted 6.
To re-elect Ms Marion Sears as a Director.
after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution 7.
To elect Mr Paul Yates as a Director.
All previous unexpired authorities are revoked, but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the rights already made, offered or agreed to be made pursuant to section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on page 28 such authorities.
for the year ended 31 December 2016.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 1 2 as set out above, 9.
To approve the Remuneration Policy as stated in the Directors the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant Remuneration Report on page 28. to Sections 570 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the 10.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company to authority given by the said Resolution 1 2 and or to sell ordinary hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at shares held by the Company as Treasury shares for cash, as if which financial statements are laid before the Company.
Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or 1 1.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors sale, provided that this power shall be limited: remuneration.
a to the allotment of equity securities or sale of Treasury To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 520,560 of which Resolutions 1 2 and 1 5 will be proposed as ordinary approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the resolutions and Resolutions 1 3 and 1 4 as special resolutions.
issued share capital of the Company including Treasury shares as at 14 March 2017 : and Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption rights b in either case, by the condition that allotments of equity Resolutions 1 2 and 1 3 will, if approved, authorise the Directors securities or sales of Treasury shares may only be made to allot a limited number of the new ordinary shares or sell any pursuant to this authority at a price of not less than the net ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury asset value per share, for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Board is 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company in General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after issue on 14 March 2017.
The Directors will only issue new ordinary the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save shares, or dispose of ordinary shares held in Treasury, under this that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers authority to take advantage of opportunities in the market as they or agreements before the expiry of this authority, and the arise and only if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer shareholders to do so.
Any ordinary shares held in Treasury would or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had only be re-issued at net asset value per share, or at a premium not expired.
to net asset value per share.
This would ensure that the net effect of repurchasing and then re-issuing the ordinary shares would Authority to repurchase shares enhance net asset value per share.
Resolution 1 4 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the 1 2.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and number of ordinary shares in issue excluding Treasury shares 58 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Notes: on 14 March 2017 for immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury shares, at the determination of the Board.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the are held in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in Annual General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to accordance with the relevant legislation by subsequently selling attend and to speak and vote instead of him.
A member may the shares for cash or cancelling the shares.
Purchases of ordinary appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and within Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise guidelines set from time to time by the Board and in the light of the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
market at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increase in net asset value per share.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrar at the address on the form to arrive not later than 1 4.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and 12 noon on 11 May 2017.
Completion and return of the form unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each in the capital of the Company the 3.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any shares provided that: power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with purchased shall be 62,425,541: the Companys Registrar, Capita Asset Services, PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or share is 2.5 pence: adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before paid for a share is the higher of: the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
i an amount eq ual to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of immediately preceding the day on which the share is the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall purchased: and be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
ii t he amount stipulated by the European Commission pursuant to Article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a EU No.
596 2014: previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by 12 conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the noon on 11 May 2017.
For this purpose, the time of receipt Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp time: and applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST partly after the expiration of such authority and may make sponsored members and those CREST Members who have a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with Continuation of the Company appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST Resolution 1 5 is an ordinary resolution which relates to the procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the continuation of the Company.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 1 5.
THAT the Company continues to carry on business as an a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
case your proxy form must be received by the Companys By Order of the Board Registrar no later than 12 noon on 11 May 2017.
FIL Investments International Secretary 14 March 2017 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 59 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Notice of Meeting continued 11.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more 6.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of relation to the same shares.
Members as at close of business on 11 May 2017.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint 7.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an including communications relating to the Companys securities, agreement between him and the member by whom he was made at the meeting.
nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right the Company may be required to publish on its website a to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the the appointment of proxies in Note 2 above does not apply to conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual Nominated Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an only be exercised by members of the Company.
Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is previous meeting at which the Annual Report and Financial given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject Statements were laid.
The Company may not require the of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the its expenses in complying with such requests.
Where the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in Company is required to place a statement on a website under the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the time Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to when it makes the statement available on the website.
The the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
As a result, business which may be dealt with at the Annual General any member holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would publish on its website.
otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make separate notification 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
A copy of this notice and other information required by 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be Companys website at www.
entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the register of members by close of business on 11 May 2017.
If the meeting Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
on the Register of Members at 5.30pm on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
As at 14 March 2017 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 416,447,910 ordinary shares.
The number of Treasury shares held by the Company were 1,095,733.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 14 March 2017 was 415,352,177.
60 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016
