Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure In compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FISL has delegated the portfolio management and company secretarial function to FIL Investments International FII another Fidelity group company.
Details of the Management Agreement can be found in the Directors Report on page 21.
The AIFMs Annual Report is available to shareholders on request.
Please contact the Company Secretary whose address can be found on page 63.
The table below discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure Investment The AIFM provides portfolio management of assets and investment Details of the Companys investment management advice in relation to the assets of the Company.
It has delegated objective, strategy and investment policy, this function to FII.
including limits, are on pages 7 and 8.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and the AIFM operates within these guidelines.
Risk management In its capacity as AIFM, FISL has responsibility for risk management The AIFM has an ongoing process for for the Company which is in addition to the Boards corporate identifying, evaluating and managing governance responsibility for risk management.
the principal risks faced by the Company which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Company has a Risk Management Process Document which The Board remains responsible for the is agreed with the Board and demonstrates that risk management Companys system of internal control and is separated functionally and hierarchically from operating units for reviewing its effectiveness.
Further and is subject to independent safeguards.
The Manager maintains details can be found in the Strategic Report adequate risk management systems in order to identify, measure on pages 9 to 11 and in Note 17 to the and monitor all risks at least annually under the AIFMD.
The Financial Statements on pages 52 to 57.
Manager is responsible for the implementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, risk profile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remain responsible for the identification of significant risks and for the ongoing review of the Companys risk management and internal control processes.
Valuation of The Directive requires the disclosure of the percentage of the AIFs Not Applicable.
illiquid assets assets which are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
Further, any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company must be disclosed.
Leverage The Company uses leverage to increase its exposure primarily to The maximum leverage limits are 1.80 the stockmarkets of continental Europe and holds derivatives to for the Gross Method of calculating achieve this.
The AIFM has set maximum levels of leverage that leverage and 1.50 for the Commitment are reasonable and has implemented systems to calculate and Method.
There have been no change to monitor compliance against these limits at all times.
the maximum level of leverage that the Company may employ during the year.
A definition of leverage is included in the Glossary of Terms on page 65.
At 31 December 2016, actual leverage was1.03 for the Gross Method and 1.03 for the Commitment Method.
Liquidity The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, maintains a liquidity No new arrangements for managing the management management policy which is considered at least annually.
liquidity of the Company have been made.
Further details can be found in Note 17 on page 54.
Remuneration of the The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelity Internationals Details of Fidelity Internationals Global AIFM Global Remuneration Policy.
This ensures that the AIFM complies Remuneration Policy can be found at with the requirements of the FCAs Remuneration Code SYSC19A : www.
com global the AIFM Remuneration Code SYSC19B and the BIPRU remuneration default.
EU Securities Financing Transactions Regulation SFTR The following disclosures relate to the long contracts for difference CFDs held by the Company which may be considered Total Return Swaps under the SFTR, which came into force on 12 January 2016.
CFDs were contracted bilaterally with Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch Deutsche Bank and had an open maturity.
At 31 December 2016 the fair value of CFDs was a loss of 577,000 which represented 0.07% of net assets.
Collateral of 1,382,000 was held by Deutsche Bank in a segregated account on behalf of the Company.
Collateral was held in cash denominated in Sterling and maturing in one day.
The total return for the year ended 31 December 2016 from CFDs was a loss of 192,000, largely as a result of the poor performance of Sanofi.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 67 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 68 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Fidelity, Fidelity International, the Fidelity International logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certied paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certied in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled bre from genuinewaste paper and 50% virgin bre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a veried, carbon osetting project.
