Fidessa group plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc only Opinion and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Fidessa group plc for the year ended 31st December 2016 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31st December 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatements, in decreasing order of audit significance, that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows unchanged from 2015 : 1 Revenue recognition 331.9. million 2015: 295.5m Risk vs 2015: Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2d and notes to the consolidated financial statements note 4a.
The risk The group provides its products and services to customers in bundled packages.
These packages may contain two or more of the following elements: software rental, consultancy services including those required to deploy the groups software, market data charges and connectivity services.
The timing of when revenue should be recognised on different elements of a bundled package can require significant judgement, particularly when there is a significant deployment phase.
Consultancy services, particularly deployment activities, may be provided on a fixed price basis and such services are recognised based on the percentage of completion POC.
Determining the POC of the contract, which may include making estimates of cost contingencies, requires significant judgement.
Where the products or services are being deployed at multiple customer sites, judgement is also required to determine whether the group has fulfilled its obligations associated with each element of revenue across the sites.
The allocation of total revenue to the individual elements of the contract and the need to assess the timing of recognition for each element presents a risk of accelerated or delayed recognition of revenue.
1 When the risk significance has increased: Risk vs 2015: When the risk significance has decreased: Risk vs 2015: When the risk significance is unchanged: Risk vs 2015:
