Fidessa group plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3 Recent accounting developments continued With the exception of IFRS15 and IFRS16 it is considered that the above standards and amendments will not have a significant effect on the consolidated or Company results or net assets.
IFRS15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2018, with early adoption permitted.
It establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue should be recognised and it replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18 Revenue.
Under IFRS15, revenue earned from contracts with customers will be recognised based on a five-step model which requires, for each contract, the transaction price to be apportioned to the separate performance obligations arising under the contract on a relative standalone selling price basis, and recognised as revenue at the point at which control of goods or services is transferred to the customer.
The transaction price will be the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer.
The incremental costs of obtaining a contract and contract fulfilment costs will be recognised as an expense consistent with the transfer of the related goods or services to the customer.
Depending on the particular contractual arrangements in place, application of the new standard may change the amount of revenue recognised on a contract and or its timing, and the timing of the recognition of contract costs compared with current accounting policies.
The Group is currently performing a detailed assessment of the impact resulting from the application of IFRS15 and will disclose additional information before it adopts IFRS15.
IFRS16 was published in January 2016 and will become effective in January 2019.
IFRS16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees.
A lessee recognises a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
There are optional exemptions for short-term leases and leases of low value items.
Lessor accounting remains similar to the current standard.
The Group has not started to assess the potential impact of the adoption of IFRS16 on its consolidated financial statements.
4 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions take account of the circumstances and facts at the period end, historical experience of similar situations and other factors that are believed to be reasonable and relevant, the results for which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
The principal estimates and judgements are summarised below.
This summary is not a list of all uncertainties, estimates and judgements encountered and others could arise that cause a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets or liabilities.
a Revenue Fidessas recurring revenue model means that the majority of revenue is recognised on a systematic basis over the life of the licence.
However, at any time there is likely to be a limited number of implementations and contract amendments underway where there is uncertainty over the value of revenue to recognise or defer.
In these situations a range of factors relevant to the situation are considered in order to determine the value of revenue recognised or deferred.
These factors typically include the contractual terms, delivery progress and anticipated remaining effort required, technical complexity and risk, uncertainties still to be resolved and the customers circumstances.
Fidessa group plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Accounting estimates and judgements continued b Product development expenditure Fidessa invests on a continual basis in the development of new and enhanced features in the product suite.
There is a regular programme of releases that form part of a continual process of enhancements to and expansion of the overall product suite.
Therefore, judgement is required in determining the practice for capitalising development costs.
Judgement is required in assessing whether the development costs meet the criteria for capitalisation and in determining that amounts capitalised continue to be supported by future net cash flows.
These estimates and judgements have been applied consistently year to year.
The accounting policy for research and product development is in note 2j and the carrying value of product development capitalised and the amounts capitalised and amortised in the year are detailed in note 13. c Income taxes Fidessa operates internationally and therefore spans a number of tax jurisdictions.
In recognising income tax assets and liabilities estimates have to be made of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain and on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The circumstances to which the estimates and judgements apply and their application has been consistent year to year.
In determining the level of accruals and provisions to be recognised in respect of any potential exposures for various tax liabilities, the directors make estimates of the level of taxes payable, particularly in relation to transfer pricing, non-deductible items and outcomes of tax disputes.
The tax obligations, if audited by the tax authorities at a future date, may differ as a result of alternative interpretations.
These differences may also impact the level of accruals and provisions recognised.
d Fair values IFRSs require many assets, liabilities and expenses to be recognised at fair value.
This includes intangible assets note 13 and share-based payments note 19.
Where open market values are not available the fair values are estimates and therefore subject to assumptions and a wide range of interpretation.
e Impairment of goodwill The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires a calculation to be made of the value in use of the cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated and this calculation to be compared to the carrying value of the cash generating unit.
The value in use calculation includes estimates of the future financial performance of the cash generating unit, the discount rate to apply to projected future cash flows, long-term operating margins and long-term growth rates note 13.
Variations in these estimates could result in a material variance in the value in use resulting from the calculation.
f Expected useful lives The carrying value of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and the respective amortisation and depreciation of these assets is affected by the assumptions made in determining the expected useful lives of the assets.
A judgement has been made of the useful life of each category of asset and this judgement has been applied consistently year to year.
The amortisation and depreciation periods are detailed in notes 2i and 2j and the carrying value of the assets along with the amounts capitalised, amortised and depreciated in the year are detailed in notes 12 and 13.
