Fidessa group plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued m Investments and financial instruments Investments in subsidiary companies, which are all unquoted equity investments, are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
A financial instrument is recognised if Fidessa becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or if the financial asset is transferred to another party without retaining control or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset.
A financial liability is derecognised when obligations specified in the contract expire or are discharged or cancelled.
Where financial guarantee contracts are created to guarantee the indebtedness of subsidiaries, they are considered to be insurance arrangements and are accounted for as such.
In this respect, the guarantee contract is treated as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that a payment will be required under the guarantee.
n Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently stated at amortised cost, their carrying value being reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
o Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
p Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
q Employee share trusts The trusts and share plan trustees, which purchase and hold shares in connection with employee share plans, are included in the financial statements and presented as a deduction from equity.
Any consideration paid or received by them for the purchase or sale of the shares is shown as a movement in equity.
r Provisions and contingent liabilities A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when a present legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material the provision is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows.
No provision is recognised when it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability and instead a contingent liability is disclosed.
3 Recent accounting developments At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and amendments were issued but not yet mandatory and early adoption has not been applied.
IAS12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses amendments.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
IFRS2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions amendments.
IFRS10 and IAS258 Sale of Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture amendments.
