Fidessa group plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Fidessa group plc Fidessa or the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 10th February 2017.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Fidessas business activities and position in its market are described in the Overview, Business Model and Strategy, Market Review, Outlook and Risks and Uncertainties sections of the Strategic Report.
The financial position, cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Finance Review and the notes to the financial statements.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include Fidessas objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the business, the principal risks that could impact on Fidessas liquidity and solvency over the next 12 months and its current financial position, the Board believes that Fidessa is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Therefore, the Board has a reasonable expectation that Fidessa has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
1 Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception of financial instruments which are stated in accordance with IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The following standards and amendments have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements, none of which had an impact on the consolidated or Companys financial statements: IFRS11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations amendments.
IAS16 and IAS38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation amendments.
IAS16 and IAS41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants amendments.
IAS27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements amendments.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 Cycle various standards.
IFRS10, IFRS12 and IAS28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation amendments.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently in the consolidated and Company financial statements to all periods presented.
2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Fidessa group plc and its subsidiaries.
There are no associates or joint ventures.
Subsidiaries are entities where the parent company has control over when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred until the date on which control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Fidessa group plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued b Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
Exchange gains and losses arising on the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are recognised in the translation reserve.
On disposal of a foreign entity the cumulative translation differences are recycled to the income statement and recognised as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
iii Key foreign exchange rates The key foreign exchange rates used in the preparation of these financial statements are: 2016 2015 % change Currency Closing Average Closing Average Closing Average United States dollar 1.24 1.35 1.47 1.53 16% 12% Japanese yen 144.12 146.98 177.30 184.56 19% 20% With the exception of sterling, no other currency comprised more than 5% of Group revenue.
c Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred at the acquisition date over the net recognised amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that are incurred in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
For acquisitions prior to 1st January 2010, transaction costs that were incurred in connection with a business combination were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
d Revenue Revenue represents the fair value for consideration received or receivable from customers for software services or product and related manpower, net of discounts and sales related taxes.
Revenue is only recognised where there is persuasive evidence that a contract exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable.
Fidessa group plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2 Significant accounting policies continued Recurring revenue is derived from the provision of software either as a managed service or as a product.
Managed services are charged on a subscription basis and the revenue is recognised pro-rata over the period that the service is provided.
Software products are provided as a rental licence and revenue is recognised pro-rata over the period of the licence.
Non-recurring revenue is the provision of manpower services for implementation, consultancy, reconfiguration support and training, in all cases being entirely related to Fidessas software services and products.
When the nonrecurring items are chargeable on time and materials terms the relevant revenue is recognised as the work is performed.
When the non-recurring items are chargeable on fixed price terms the relevant revenue is recognised over the duration of the work in accordance with the estimated percentage complete, based on the anticipated number of days of effort for the implementation.
Full allowance is made for all known or expected losses.
Recurring and non-recurring services can be separately identified from the contracts and the fair value determined respectively.
Deferred revenue represents amounts invoiced to customers for services not yet supplied or rental periods not yet elapsed.
Accrued revenue represents amounts recognised as revenue to be invoiced in a future period.
e Share-based payments A number of equity-settled share plans are operated.
The fair value of the awards is recognised as an employee expense over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the awards is measured using a Black-Scholes model or binomial model simulation model, taking into account the terms and conditions of the awards.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest except where forfeiture is only due to the share price not achieving the threshold for vesting.
f Post-employment benefits Certain subsidiaries operate defined contribution pension schemes for their employees.
Pension costs are charged to the income statement as they arise.
g Interest receivable Interest receivable on interest-bearing financial assets is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate used reflects the anticipated cash flows to be received.
h Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Fidessa group plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
The Group has adopted the research and development expenditure credit regime RDEC.
As a result, research and development tax credits previously reported within the income tax expense are replaced by above the line research and development grants.
The grants are shown as deferred income as they are earned and are subsequently credited to income as a reduction in operating expenses over the period that the related development costs are amortised.
A corresponding other receivable is recognised at the time the grant is earned and will subsequently be offset against tax payable.
i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment.
The cost is the purchase price of the goods received.
Purchased software that is integral to the related equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Furniture and equipment 3 5 years Leasehold improvements 5 10 years or remainder of lease if shorter Long leasehold buildings 25 years Computer equipment 2 3 years j Intangible assets Research and product development Expenditure on research into areas such as potential new technologies, methodologies and architectures is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Product development relates to the design, programming and testing of new and enhanced inter-related features in the product suite and the support and issue resolution of features already in the product suite.
There is a regular programme of releases that form part of a continual process of enhancements to and expansion of the overall product suite.
Product development expenditure relating to new and enhanced features is capitalised as an intangible asset so long as it is probable that the development will provide economic benefits, considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and resources are expected to be available for the development to complete.
The expenditure capitalised is the direct labour cost and it is managed and controlled centrally.
Product development expenditure relating to the support and issue resolution of features already in the product suite is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised product development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Product development costs that have been capitalised are amortised on a straight-line basis over three years from the time that they are released and available for use.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the interest in identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination.
Goodwill is stated at the amount recognised on acquisition less accumulated impairment.
Fidessa group plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2 Significant accounting policies continued Acquisition intangibles Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition and amortised over their estimated useful economic life.
Their carrying value is the fair value at acquisition less cumulative amortisation and impairments.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside of goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
The estimated useful lives of the intangible assets are as follows: Customer relationships 10 years Other intangible assets Other purchased intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairments.
The cost is the purchase price of the asset.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Software purchased for internal use is amortised over two years.
k Impairment of assets All non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, except for indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill which are reviewed annually.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units that are no larger than an operating segment for the purposes of impairment testing.
The recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill relates is estimated and the carrying amount is tested annually for impairment or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
In an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit or asset is estimated to determine the extent of an impairment.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
An impairment is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
In determining a cash generating units or assets value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the cash generating unit or asset that have not already been included in the estimate of future cash flows.
Except for goodwill impairments, a review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and any previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the assets net book value had no previous impairment loss been recognised.
Such reversal is recognised in the Income Statement.
Future depreciation or amortisation is then adjusted to allocate the assets revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life.
Impairments to goodwill cannot be reversed.
l Leased assets Where an operating lease is entered into the rentals are charged as an expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
