Shareholder information Annual General Meeting Shareholder enquiries The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 1.30pm The Companys share register is maintained by the Companys onTuesday 19 July 2016 at Norwood Hall Hotel, Garthdee Road, Registrar, Equiniti.
Shareholders with queries relating to their Aberdeen AB15 9FX, United Kingdom.
shareholding should contact Equiniti directly using one of the methodslisted below.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and Form of Proxy are enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Notice of Annual General Registrar Meeting can also be found on the FirstGroup website www.
Aspect House Spencer Road Electronic shareholder communications Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA FirstGroup uses its website www.
com as its primary Tel: 0371 384 2046 or from overseas on Tel: 44 0 121 415 7050 means of communication with its shareholders provided that the Online: help.
co. uk from here, you will be able to securely shareholder has agreed or is deemed to have agreed that email Equiniti with your enquiry.
communications may be sent or supplied in that manner.
Electronic Telephone lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
communications allow shareholders to access information instantly aswell as helping FirstGroup reduce its costs and its impact on the Duplicate shareholder accounts environment.
Shareholders that have consented or are deemed to If you receive more than one copy of Company mailings this may haveconsented to electronic communications can revoke their indicate that more than one account is held in your name on the register.
consentat any time by contacting the Companys Registrar, Equiniti.
This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ Shareholders can sign up for electronic communications online by slightly.
If you believe more than one account exists in your name you registering with Shareview, the internet based platform provided by may contact the Companys Registrar, Equiniti, to request that the Equiniti.
In addition to enabling shareholders to register to receive accounts are combined.
There is no charge for this service.
communications by email, Shareview provides a facility for ShareGift shareholders to manage their shareholding online by allowing them to: If shareholders have a small number of shares and the dealing costs receive trading updates by email: orthe minimum fee make it uneconomical to sell them, it is possible view their shareholdings: todonate these to ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide a free service to enable you to dispose charitably of such shares.
More update their records, including change of address: information on this service can be found at www.
org or by view payment and tax information: and calling 44 0 20 7930 3737. vote in advance of company general meetings.
FirstGroup plcs policy on discounts for shareholders Shareholders are reminded that it is not Group policy to offer travel or To find out more information about the services offered by Shareview, other discounts to shareholders, as they may be used only by a small please visit www.
The Group is focused on overall returns which are of benefit to all shareholders.
Electronic voting Shareholders can submit proxies for the 2016 Annual General Meeting Unsolicited telephone calls and correspondence electronically by logging on to www.
Electronic proxy Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, appointments must be received by the Companys Registrar, Equiniti, offerstobuy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about no later than 1.30pm on Friday 15 July 2016 or not less than 48 hours theCompany.
These are typically from overseas based brokers before the time fixed for any adjourned meeting.
whotarget US or UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turns outto be worthless or high risk shares.
These operations are Corporate website commonly known as boiler rooms and the brokers can be very A wide range of information on FirstGroup is available at the FirstGroup persistent and extremely persuasive.
com including: Shareholders are advised to deal only with financial services firms that financial information annual and half-yearly reports as well as trading are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
You can check updates: a firm is properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved by share price information current trading details and historical charts: visiting www.
If you do deal with an unauthorised shareholder information Annual General Meeting results, details firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial ofthe Companys advisers and frequently asked questions: and Services Compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
For more detailed information on how you can protect yourself from an news releases current and historical.
investment scam, or to report a scam, go to www.
uk consumers scams report-scam or call 0800 111 6768.
Half-yearly results The half-yearly results, to be announced on the London Stock Exchange, in November 2016, will continue to be available on the Companys website in the form of a press release and not issued toshareholders in hard copy.
Shareholders that have signed up for electronic shareholder communication will be sent a notification when these are available on the FirstGroup website www.
166 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016
