Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and Accounts, The Report and Accounts is published on the the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in www.
com website, which is maintained by F&C.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
The work undertaken by the auditors does Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Practice.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Statement under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Rule 4.1.
12 view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of Each of the Directors listed on pages 26 and 27 confirm to the the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, best of their knowledge that: the Directors are required to: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable select suitable accounting policies and then apply them accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, consistently: liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable the Strategic Report includes a fair, balanced and comprehensive and prudent: review of the development and performance of the business and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been the position of the Company, together with a description of the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and explained in the financial statements respectively: and the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and continue in business.
performance, business model and strategy: and the financial statements and the Directors Report include details The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above on related party transactions.
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of On behalf of the Board the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Simon Fraser and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Chairman Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 6 March 2017 Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
44 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT We will remain focused on extending our record of delivering growth in capital and income to you over the longer term from our globally diversified equity portfolio Report and Accounts 2016 | 45
