OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION INFORMATION Information for Shareholders Net asset value and share price Association of Investment Companies AIC The Companys net asset value is released daily, on the working Foreign & Colonial is a member of the AIC, which publishes a day following the calculation date, to the London and New Zealand monthly statistical information service in respect of member Stock Exchanges.
The current share price of Foreign & Colonial is companies.
The publication also has details of ISA and other shown in the investment trust section of the stock market page in investment plans available.
For further details, please contact the AIC most leading newspapers, usually under For & Col. Investors in on 020 7282 5555, or visit the website: www.
New Zealand can obtain share prices from leading newspapers in that country.
Unclaimed dividends The Company has engaged the services of Georgeson a subsidiary Performance information of Computershare to locate shareholders, or their beneficiaries, who Information on the Companys performance is provided in the have lost track of or are unaware of their investments.
The service half-yearly and final reports which are sent to shareholders in is provided at no cost to the Company: Georgeson retain 10% of August and March respectively.
More up-to-date performance unclaimed dividends from the shareholder on completion of each information, including the full list of investments in the portfolio successful claim.
Alternatively, shareholders are given the option of as at the most recent month end, is available on the Internet at contacting the Registrar themselves, thereby incurring no charges.
com also provides a monthly update on Common reporting standards the Companys geographic spread and largest holdings, along with New tax legislation under The OECD Organisation for Economic comments from the Fund Manager.
Co-operation and Development Common Reporting Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information The UK capital gains tax CGT Common Reporting Standard has been introduced with effect An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
The legislation requires investment trust resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 11,100 in companies to provide personal information to HMRC on certain the tax year ended 5 April 2017 without incurring any tax liability.
investors who purchase shares in investment trusts.
The Company will have to provide information annually to the local tax authority A rate of CGT of 18% will apply where taxable income and gains on the tax residencies of a number of non-UK based certificated do not exceed the income tax higher rate threshold 32,000 in shareholders, and corporate entities.
A higher rate of 20% will apply to those whose All new shareholders, excluding those whose shares are held in income and gains exceed this figure.
CREST, who are entered onto the share register from 1 January 2016 will be sent a certification form for the purposes of collecting Income tax this information.
The final dividend of 2.7 pence per share is payable on 2 May For further information, please see HMRCs Quick Guide: 2017.
From April 2016 dividend tax credits have been replaced by Automatic Exchange of Information information for account an annual 5,000 tax-free allowance to UK residents on dividend holders www.
uk government publications exchange-ofincome received in their entire share portfolios.
received in excess of this amount will be taxed at rates of 7.5% basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% higher rate taxpayers or 38.1% additional rate taxpayers.
Registered in England and Wales with Company Registration No.
