OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION INFORMATION Alternative Performance Measures The Company uses the following Alternative Performance Measures APMs : Discount Premium the share price of an Investment Trust is derived from buyers and sellers trading their shares on the stock market.
This price is not identical to NAV per share of the underlying assets less liabilities of the Company.
If the share price is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
This usually indicates that there are more sellers of shares than buyers.
Shares trading at a price above NAV per share are said to be at a premium, in which case there tend to be more buyers than sellers.
The Board of the Company tries to ensure that the shares trade, in normal market conditions, at around 92.5% of the value of the NAV with debt at market value see below i. e. that the discount is on average around 7.5% by means of buying shares from sellers at the below the NAV per share and cancelling them or holding them in treasury.
Buybacks effectively create a profit for the Company and at least temporarily deal with the perceived excess of shares in the market.
Net Asset Value NAV with Debt at Market Value the Companys debt debenture and loans is valued in the Balance Sheet on page 55 at amortised cost, which is materially equivalent to the repayment value of the debt on the assumption that it is held to maturity.
This is often referred to as Debt at Par.
The current replacement or market value of the debt, which assumes it is repaid and renegotiated under current market conditions, is often referred to as the Debt at Market Value or Debt at Fair value.
This Market Value is spelt out in notes 15 and 16 page 68 and note 25 d page 78 on the accounts.
The difference between market and par values of the debt is subtracted from or added to the Balance Sheet NAV on page 55 to derive the NAV with debt at market value.
The NAV with debt at market value at 31 December 2016 was 3,209,544,000 587.2p per share and the NAV with debt at par was 3,213,435,000 587.9p per share.
Ongoing Charges all operating costs expected to be regularly incurred and that are payable by the Company or suffered within underlying investee funds including Private Equity funds, expressed as a proportion of the average daily net asset values of the Company valued in accordance with accounting policies over the reporting year see Ten Year Record.
The costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives are excluded, as are interest costs, taxation, non-recurring costs and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total Expense Ratio TER an alternative measure of expenses to Ongoing Charges.
It comprises all operating costs incurred in the reporting period by the Company see note 4 page 62 and note 5 page 63 on the accounts, calculated as a percentage of the average daily net asset values valued in accordance with accounting policies in that year see Ten Year Record.
Operating costs exclude costs suffered within underlying investee funds, costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives, interest costs, taxation and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total Return the return to shareholders calculated on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the period to the increase or decrease in the Share Price or NAV with debt at market value in the period.
The dividends are assumed to have been re-invested in the form of shares or net assets, respectively, on the date on which the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Dividends paid and payable are set out in note 9 on page 65.
