OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION NOTICE OF MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and thirty-eighth Annual 15.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights General Meeting of the Company will be held at Merchant Taylors THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 14 above and in Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2 on Tuesday, 25 April 2017 substitution for any existing authority, but without prejudice at 12 noon for the following purposes: to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Ordinary Resolutions: sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of ordinary resolutions: the Act either pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 14 for cash or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and accounts for the 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or transfer, year ended 31 December 2016. provided this authority shall be limited to: 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
To approve the Directors annual report on remuneration.
a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer 4.
To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
To elect Mr Edward Knapp as a Director.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 6.
To re-elect Ms Sarah Arkle as a Director.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 7.
To re-elect Sir Roger Bone as a Director.
ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the 8.
To re-elect Ms Francesca Ecsery as a Director.
rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise 9.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director.
To re-elect Mr Jeffrey Hewitt as a Director.
and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions 11.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Moakes as a Director.
and make any arrangements which they consider necessary 12.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company.
or appropriate to deal with any treasury shares, fractional 13.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration entitlements or securities represented by depositary receipts, of the auditors.
record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or 14.
Authority to allot shares under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: and prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and b the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a of this unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 551 of Resolution 15 of equity securities up to an aggregate the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to exercise all the powers nominal amount of 6,800,000, and shall expire at the of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in Company after the passing of this resolution or on 30 June the Company together being relevant securities up to an 2018 whichever is the earlier, unless extended by the aggregate nominal amount of 6,800,000 during the period Company in a general meeting the relevant period save commencing on the date of the passing of this resolution and that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of this expiring at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the authority make offers or enter into agreements which would Company in 2018 or 30 June 2018 whichever is earlier, unless or might require equity securities to be allotted or transferred previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in a after the expiry of the relevant period and notwithstanding general meeting the relevant period save that the Company such expiry the Directors may allot or transfer equity may, at any time prior to the expiry of this authority, make offers securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
or enter into agreements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of the relevant period 16.
Share buyback authority and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot relevant THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and Special Resolutions: unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make special resolutions: Report and Accounts 2016 | 81 Lombard Street market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Notes: Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner 1.
A member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any as the Directors may from time to time determine, provided that: of the members rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting for a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised the members vote to be counted.
If a member appoints more than one to be purchased shall be 81,740,000 or, if less, 14.99% of proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the number of ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
shares as at the date of the passing of this resolution: 2.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be as to how the votes are cast and the voting rights in respect of those paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p: discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under paid for an ordinary share is the higher of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from Authority FCA.
As a result, any person holding 3% or more of the the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary business days immediately preceding the date on which proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased, and otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last Transparency Rules need not make a separate notification to the independent trade for an ordinary share and the highest Company and the FCA.
current independent bid for an ordinary share on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out: 3.
Any such person holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion will need to ensure that both he and such person complies with their of the next annual general meeting of the Company after respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure Guidance and passing of this resolution or on 30 June 2018, whichever is Transparency Rules.
earlier, unless such authority is varied, revoked or renewed prior to such time by the Company in general meeting by 4.
A Form of Proxy is provided with this notice for members.
If a member special resolution: and wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact Computershare Investor Services e the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such PLC on 0800 923 1506.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy and any power of authority enter into a contract or contracts to purchase attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified ordinary shares under such authority which will or may be copy of such authority must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at the Companys registrars, Computershare completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and the Company may purchase ordinary Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts as if the not less than 48 hours before the time of the holding of the meeting or authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should Liverpool Street By Order of the Board Registered office: For and on behalf of Exchange House F&C Investment Primrose Street Business Limited London EC2A 2NY Secretary 6 March 2017 Bank of England Merchant Taylors Hall Bank Leadenhall Steet Cornhill Threadneedles Lloyds Mansion Hotel of House London 82 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Fenchurch St Monument Station Threadneedle Street King William Street Old Broad Street Bishopsgate OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION NOTICE OF MEETING they wish to do so.
Amended instructions must also be received by the at 11 p. m. on 23 April 2017 the Specified Time or, if the meeting Companys registrars by the deadline for receipt of Forms of Proxy.
is adjourned to a time more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, by 11 p. m. on the day which is two days prior to the time of the adjourned 5.
Alternatively, members may register the appointment of a meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
If the meeting proxy for the meeting electronically, by accessing the website www.
com where full instructions for the procedure is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, are given.
The Control Number, Shareholder Reference and PIN as that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement printed on the Form of Proxy will be required in order to use the electronic of members to attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the proxy appointment system.
This website is operated by Computershare number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
Changes to Investor Services PLC.
The proxy appointment and any power of attorney the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in or other authority under which the proxy appointment is made must be determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
received by Computershare Investor Services PLC not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the 10.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the If you want to appoint more than one proxy electronically please contact CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored Computershare Investor Services PLC on 0800 923 1506. members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service 6.
Investors holding shares in the Company through the F&C Private provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Investor, or Childrens Investment Plans, the F&C Child Trust Fund, Junior ISA or in an F&C Individual Savings Account should ensure that forms of 11.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST direction are returned to Computershare Investor Services PLC not later service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy than 12 noon on 18 April 2017.
Alternatively, voting directions can be Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear submitted electronically at www.
com by entering the UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information Control Number, Shareholder Reference Number and PIN as printed on required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual the form of direction.
Voting directions must be submitted electronically available via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment no later than 12 noon on 18 April 2017. to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order 7.
Any person receiving a copy of this notice as a person nominated by a to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies number 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments Act 2006 a Nominated Person should note that the provisions in specified in notes 4 and 5 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt notes 1, 4 and 5 above concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to attend the meeting in place of a member do not apply to a Nominated to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers Person as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the appointee through other means.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an 12.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting.
Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will 8.
Nominated Persons should also remember that their main point of therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the member It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored perhaps, the custodian or broker who administers the investment on their member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that behalf.
Nominated Persons should continue to contact that member, his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as custodian or broker and not the Company regarding any changes or shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST queries relating to the Nominated Persons personal details and interest in the Company including any administrative matter.
The only exception members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from a provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Nominated Person.
Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings www.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended and for the purposes of section 360B of the 13.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company has specified that only circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated those members registered on the register of members of the Company Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate 19.
This notice, together with information about the total number of shares representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise a member provided that, if it is appointing more than one corporate voting rights at the meeting as at 1 March 2017 being the last practicable representative, it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is date prior to the printing of this notice and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
received by the Company after the date of this notice, will be available at www.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require 20.
Any electronic address provided either in this notice or in any the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter related documents including the Form of Proxy may not be used to relating to: communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report expressly stated.
and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or 21.
Copies of the letters of appointment between the Company and its b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company Directors: a copy of the articles of association of the Company: the ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual register of Directors holdings: and a deed poll relating to Directors accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the indemnities will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Companies Act 2006.
Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and Bank Holidays excluded until the date of the meeting and 16.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website also on the date and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 the commencement of the meeting to the conclusion thereof.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it 22.
No Director has a service agreement with the Company.
must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the threshold which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: a to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting, and or 17.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter The Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the the business.
However, members should note that no answer need be given in the following circumstances: A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included a if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of the meeting in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective or would involve a disclosure of confidential information: b if the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the answer to a question: or companys constitution or otherwise, c if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order b it is defamatory of any person or of the meeting that the question be answered.
c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must 18.
As at 1 March 2017, being the last practicable date prior to the printing of identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be this notice, the Companys issued capital less the shares held in Treasury included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons consisted of 545,307,267 ordinary shares of 25 pence each carrying one making it, must be received by the Company not later than 13 March vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 1 March 2017, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case 2017 are 545,307,267. of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
84 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
