FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 219 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1.
Corporate information Fresnillo plc the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 5.
The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes with tax residency in Mexico City.
For further information see note 4.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
The country of incorporation of Peoles is Mexico.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the Fresnillo Group of companies.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 27 February 2017.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except when otherwise indicated.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
b Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the separate financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Restatements As at 31 December 2015, derivatives relating to the gold hedging programme initiated in 2014 that mature after one year had been presented as current assets.
During 2016, the Company restated the prior year comparatives and reclassified these derivatives to non-current assets.
The reclassification resulted in an increase in non-current assets and a corresponding reduction in current assets by US$97.5 million as at 31 December 2015, with no impact on previously reported profit, other comprehensive income, liabilities, equity or cash flow.
In addition, there is no tax effect.
In the current year, the Company identified that a reversal of a previously recognised impairment loss on its investment in Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. amounting to US$142.9 million which existed at 31 December 2014 had not been recognised.
During 2016, the Company restated the prior year comparatives to recognise this reversal.
This adjustment resulted in an increase in both non-current assets and equity by US$142.9 million as at 1 January 2015, with no impact in liabilities or the previously reported profit, other comprehensive income or cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2015.
New standards, interpretations and amendments new standards adopted by the Company During 2016 there were no new standards adopted by the Company.
New standards issued by the IASB effective as of 1 January 2016 had no impact in the financial information of the Company.
Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Companys financial statements are disclosed below.
The Company intends to adopt these standards that are applicable to the Companys financial statements, when they become effective.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 220 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which concludes all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
The Company plans to adopt IFRS 9 Financial instruments from the mandatory effective date.
The Companys assessment of the expected major impacts of this standard is set out below.
Nature of change IFRS 9 addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
The derecognition rules are consistent with those under IAS 39.
Main impact IFRS 9 makes significant changes in the classification of financial assets.
Whereas under IAS 39, the default classification for financial assets was available-for-sale financial assets, under IFRS 9 the residual category is to recognise fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Generally under IFRS 9, investments in equity instruments are recognised as FVTPL unless the Group makes an election, in respect of investments that are not held for trading, to measure the instruments at fair value through OCI FVOCI.
The Group expects to designate all investments currently recognised in available-for-sale financial assets as FVOCI.
In accordance with IFRS 9, this means that all movements relating to such assets are recognised in OCI.
Neither gains nor losses on disposal or significant or prolonged declines in the value of these investments are recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment model The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses ECL rather than on the basis of credit losses incurred as is the case under IAS 39.
It will apply to Companys financial assets classified at amortised cost and debt instruments measured at FVOCI.
IFRS 9 also sets out a simplified approach for traded and lease receivables that do not contain a significant financing component in accordance with IFRS 15.
Expected date of The Company plans to adopt IFRS 9 effective 1 January 2018 and plans to apply the limited exemption relating adoption by Company to transition for classification and measurement and impairment, and accordingly will not restate comparative and considerations periods in the year of initial application.
The Company does not currently expect the impact of adopting IFRS 9 to be material to the standalone financialinformation.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
The Company plans to adopt IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from the mandatory effective date.
The Company has completed a preliminary assessment of the expected major impacts of this standard, the most relevant one set out below.
Nature of change IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for recognition of revenue from contracts with customers based on a core principle that an entity should recognise revenue representing the transfer of promised goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Main impact As described in the accounting policies section, The Companys revenue is derived from one revenue stream that corresponds to trademark royalties.
The Company has evaluated recognition and measurement of revenue based on the five-step model in IFRS 15 and has not identified any material expected financial impacts.
IFRS 15 includes disclosure requirements to enable users of the financial statements to understand the amount, timing, risk and judgements related to revenue recognition and related cash flows.
Certain disclosures will change as a result of the requirements of IFRS 15, however the Company does not expect major changes as revenue is derived from one revenue stream an all the transactions are carried out with related parties.
Expected date of The Company plans to adopt IFRS 15 effective 1 January 2018 and to apply the simplified transition method, adoption by Company hence the cumulative effect of adoption, if any, will be recognised in retained earnings.
The Company currently and considerations expects the cumulative effect to be nil.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 221 2.
Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, earlier application is permitted.
However, as there are several interactions between IFRS 16 and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, early application is restricted to entities that also early apply IFRS 15.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and is considering early adoption in 2018 to align with the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15.
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative The amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes.
The amendments do not prescribe a specific format to disclose financing activities: however, an entity may fulfil the disclosure objective by providing reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the statement of financial position for liabilities arising from financing activities.
The amendments apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with earlier application permitted.
Entities are not required to present comparative information for earlier periods.
The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Company.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments to IAS 12 clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the assets tax base.
They also clarify certain other aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early adoption permitted.
IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration IFRIC 22 provides requirements about which exchange rate to use in reporting foreign currency transactions when payment is made or received in advance.
The interpretation requires the Company to determine a date of transaction for the purposes of selecting an exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income.
In case there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the entity should determine a date of the transaction for each flow of advance consideration.
IFRIC 22 is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier adoption is permitted.
The interpretation is not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Company.
The IASB has issued other amendments to standards, including those resulting from improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company.
The Company has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
c Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is in the accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements.
Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: Determination of functional currency note 2 d : The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Contingencies note 13 : By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 222 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty made by management in preparing the financial information statements include: Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets note 2 g and 6 : The Company classifies certain financial asset as available-for-sale and recognises movements in their fair value in equity.
When the fair value declines, management makes an assessment of the decline in value to determine whether it is an impairment that should be recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of investments in subsidiaries notes 2 e and 5 : The Company assesses investments in subsidiaries annually to determine whether any indication of impairment exists.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD and the value in use.
Due to the nature of the subsidiaries, the assessment of the recoverable amount is generally determined based on the net present value of future cash flows related to the subsidiaries requiring the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associate production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
These cash flows are discounted using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
The determination of that rate requires certain judgements.
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, the Company assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of that investment, requiring similar estimates and assumptions as those for determining an impairment charge.
At 31 December 2016 the Company reversed impairment losses of US$997.9 million 2015: US$nil to recognise a cumulative impairment relating to subsidiaries of US$506.2 million 2015: US$1,537.2 million.
d Foreign currency translation The Companys financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company.
The functional currency for the Company is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Nonmonetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair valued is determined.
e Investments in subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities which the Company due to it being exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at acquisition cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment charges and reversals, up to the value of the merger reserve, are reclassified from retained earnings to the merger reserve.
When the Company increases its capital investment in or where there is a return of share capital from its subsidiaries, such movements are recognised as an addition to, or return of the original cost recognised in investment in subsidiaries.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use.
The Company usually determines fair value based on the net present value of the future cash flows related to its subsidiaries.
If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount.
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
An impairment loss is reversed to profit or loss to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed that that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 223 2.
Significant accounting policies continued f Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to maturity investments: or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Company recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred.
Financial assets are offset with liabilities and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value transactions through profit and loss at inception are included in this category.
Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments, as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
The Company adjusts the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instruments original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate.
Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense.
This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans.
For more information refer note 11.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held-to-maturity investments.
Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market: therefore a fair value can be reliably measured.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses being recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is derecognised.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are fide-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 224 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
g Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Company first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Company will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Company considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
h Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 225 2.
Significant accounting policies continued i Share capital Ordinary Shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue.
j Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes.
Trademark royalties Trademark royalty income is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received.
Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method: i. e. the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive the payment is established.
k Income tax Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 226 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued l Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Company enters into derivative contracts in order to manage certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodity prices which impact the financial and business transactions of its subsidiaries.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
In the Groups consolidated financial statements certain of these derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Companys stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges.
Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Company first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
m Fair value measurement The Company measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 17 and 18.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: in the principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Company.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 V aluation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 17.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 227 2.
Significant accounting policies continued n Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Mexican Income Tax Law establishes a 10% tax rate on earnings from 2014 and thereafter, for dividends paid to foreign residents and Mexican individuals.
Dividends paid are not subject to income tax if paid from the Net Tax Profit Account CUFIN.
Dividends paid that exceed CUFIN are subject to an income tax payable at a rate of 30% if paid in 2017.
The tax is payable by the Company and may be credited against the normal income tax payable by the Company in the year in which the dividends are paid or in the following two years.
Dividends paid from earnings previously taxed are not subject to any withholding or additional tax payment.
Segment reporting Segmental information is not presented in the Companys stand-alone financial statements as this is presented in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Income tax a Income tax reported in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Deferred income tax charge credit related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income: Change in fair value on available-for-sale financial assets note 6 13,418 3,522 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 13,418 3,522 b The movements in the deferred income tax liability are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net liability asset 20,490 3,138 Income statement credit charge 43,599 27,150 Net charge credit arising on change in fair value on available-for-sale assets note 6 13,418 3,522 Closing net asset liability 9,691 20,490 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities.
The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset as at 31 December considering the nature of the temporary differences are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Prepayments and other assets 1,152 363 Derivative financial instruments 7,660 41,255 Losses carried forward 32,678 21,884 Available-for-sale financial assets 14,175 756 Net deferred tax asset liability 9,691 20,490 c Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Company has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,949 million 2015: US$1,450 million.
d Corporate Income Tax Impuesto Sobre la Renta or ISR The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes.
The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 228 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 5.
Investments in subsidiaries Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 restated US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 5,943,889 6,873,015 Impairment 945,284 Reversal of impairment 997,915 Additions 20,582 16,158 Return of share capital 4,528 1 Closing balance 6,957,858 5,943,889 1.
The El Bajo land dispute could have an impact on the Companys investment in Minera Penmont Soledad-Dipolos mine unit note 13.
As described in note 2 b, the balance at 1 January 2015 has been restated.
During 2016 the Company has identified the recovery of gold and silver prices as an indicator of reversal of previously recognised impairment losses on its investments in subsidiaries.
The Company has calculated the recoverable amount of its investments in subsidiaries as at 31 December 2016 and as a result has recognised a reversal of previously recognised impairment loss amounting to US$997,915.
The recoverable amount was estimated based on the Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal FVLCD model 2015: FVLCD.
The following tables provide relevant information in respect of each impaired subsidiary: Year ended 31 December 2016 Current year Impairment Cumulative Recoverable reversal Impairment amount US$ thousands US$ thousand US$ thousands Discount rate Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. 608,736 94,747 4,208,200 Post-tax 5.38% Minera Mexicana la Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. 109,979 360,791 570,338 Post-tax 5.28% Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. 141,738 1,451,845 Post-tax 5.34% Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 137,462 810,877 Post-tax 5.28% Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. 83,705 138,628 Post-tax 6.06% 997,915 506,257 In determining FVLCD it is necessary to make a series of assumptions to estimate future cash flows including reserves and resources volumes and related production profile, price assumptions, cost estimates and discount rate.
Accordingly, the fair value is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The price assumptions used to determine FVLCD are based on analysts consensus of long-term prices.
As at 31 December 2016, the Company used price assumptions of US$1,250 ounce and US$18 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
Year ended 31 December 2015 Current year Cumulative Recoverable Impairment Impairment amount US$ thousand US$ thousand US$ thousand Discount rate Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. 703,483 703,483 3,561,388 Post-tax 6.21% Minera Mexicana la Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. 470,770 481,878 Post-tax 6.09% Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. 104,339 141,738 1,133,900 Post-tax 6.02% Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 137,462 137,462 671,488 Post-tax 6.02% Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. 83,705 139,400 Post-tax 6.43% 945,284 1,537,158 As at 31 December 2015 management calculated the recoverable amount using FVLCD methodology.
Management considers that the model supporting the determination of FVLCD is most sensitive to commodity price assumptions.
As at 31 December 2015, the Company used price assumptions of US$1,200 ounce and US$18 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
Sensitivity analysis As at 31 December 2016 Management has performed a sensitivity analysis for those subsidiaries where cumulative impairment may be affected by a significant decrease in silver and gold prices.
Management has considered a decrease in silver of 20% and 15% for gold 2015:20% and 10%, respectively.
The sensitivity resulted in an additional impairment on Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. of US$622.3 million 2015: US$1,335.8 million and Minera Mexicana la Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. US$85.7 million 2015: US$ nil.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 229 5.
Investments in subsidiaries continued The subsidiaries in which investments are directly held as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Country of Equity interest % Legal company Principal activity incorporation Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 4 Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead silver and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 1 4 Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Production of dor bars gold silver Mexico 56 56 4 Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates and Mexico 100 100 silver precipitates 4 Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 4 Desarrollos Mineros Canelas, S. A. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 100 100 1 4 Desarrollos Mineros Fresne, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 56 56 4 Desarrollos Mineros el Aguila, S. A. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 100 100 4 Metalrgica Reyna, S. A. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mexico 100 100 4 Equipos Mineros Nazas, S. A. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 100 100 1 4 Proveedora fide Equipos Fresne, S fide R. L. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 56 56 4 Equipos Mineros la Hacienda, S. A. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 100 100 4 Proveedora fide Equipos Jerez, S. A. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mexico 100 100 4 Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. Mining project Mexico 56 56 4 Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Holds rights over silver production from Mexico 100 100 Peoles polymetallic Sabinas mine through the Silverstream contract 4 Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration services Mexico 100 100 4 Exploraciones y Desarrollos Mineros Coneto, Exploration services Mexico 55 55 S. A. P. I. fide C. V. 2 4 Exploraciones Coneto, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration services Mexico 100 4 Minera El Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mining equipment leasing Mexico 100 100 4 Compaa Minera Las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. Mine project Mexico 100 100 4 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 4 Operaciones Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 4 Servicios fide Exploracin Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Administrative services Mexico 100 100 5 Fresnillo Management Services, Ltd Administrative services UK 100 100 6 Fresbal Investments, Ltd Holding company for mining Investments Canada 100 100 7 Fresnillo Peru, S. A. C. Exploration services Peru 100 100 8 Fresnillo Chile, SpA Exploration services Chile 100 3 4 Caja fide Ahorros Fresnillo, S. C. Administrative services Mexico The list of subsidiary undertakings presented in this note represents the full list of subsidiary undertakings, required to be submitted by Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006.
The remaining 44% interest in these companies are held by Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
Effective 1 July 2016, the Company merged Exploraciones Coneto, S. A. fide C. V. into Exploraciones y Desarrollos Mineros Coneto S. A. P. I. fide C. V. There was no change in the equity interest in Coneto as a result of the merger.
Whilst Fresnillo plc holds no direct ownership in Caja fide Ahorros Fresnillo, S. C. the entire share capital of the company is held through its subsidiaries.
The registered address for all Mexican subsidiaries is: Calzada Saltillo 400 No.
Registered address: Second Floor, 21 Upper Brook Street, London W1.
Registered address: 355 Burrard Street, Suite 1800, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2G8.
Registered address: Avenida Repblica fide Colombia 643, Piso 9, Distrito San Isidro, Lima 27.
Apoquindo 4775 oficina 1002 Las Condes, Santiago fide Chile.
Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 71,442 86,078 Fair value change 44,729 14,636 Ending balance 116,171 71,442 At 31 December 2016, no impairment has been recorded based on the valuation of the investment in quoted shares.
During 2015, several investments in quoted shares decreased below the cost paid by the Company therefore an impairment of US$2.9 million was recognised as other expenses in the income statement.
The fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 230 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 7.
Trade and other receivables Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other receivables from related parties note 14 480 3,764 Other 4 2 484 3,766 As of 31 December for each year presented, other receivables from related parties were neither past due nor impaired.
In determining the recoverability of a receivable, the Company performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the credit worthiness of the counterparty.
Cash and cash equivalents Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 24 16 Short-term deposits 287,712 110,201 Cash and cash equivalents 287,736 110,217 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to ordinary shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary shares are not transferable.
Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets acquired as part of the Pre-IPO reorganisation and the nominal value of the shares issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Movements in this reserve during 2016 and 2015 represent the impairment losses and reversals of the carrying value of Fresnillos investments in subsidiaries transferred from retained earnings.
Available-for-sale financial assets reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
Retained earnings This reserve records the accumulated results of the Company, less any distributions and dividends paid.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 231 10.
Dividends declared and paid The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2016 1 Final dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year 3.3 24,686 2 Interim dividend for 2016 declared and paid during the year 8.6 63,373 11.9 88,059 Year ended 31 December 2015 3 Final dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year 3.0 22,107 4 Interim dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year 2.1 15,475 5.1 37,582 1.
This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 May 2016 and paid on 9 May 2016.
This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2016 and paid on 9 September 2016.
This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015.
This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 August 2015 and paid on 10 September 2015.
Interest-bearing loans Senior Notes On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of an aggregate principal amount of US$800 million of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 the notes.
An analysis of the debt recognised in the balance sheet is as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 797,032 796,160 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 1 Interest paid 46,267 46,267 Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 995 872 Closing balance 798,027 797,032 1.
Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November.
The Group has the following restrictions derived from the issuance of the senior notes the Notes : Change of control: Should the rating of the senior notes be downgraded as a result of a change of control defined as the sale or transfer of 35% or more of the common shares: the transfer of all or substantially all the assets of the Group: starting a dissolution or liquidation process: or the loss of the majority in the Board of Directors the Group is obligated to repurchase the notes at an equivalent price of 101% of their nominal value plus the interest earned at the repurchase date, if requested to do so by any creditor.
Pledge on assets: The Group shall not pledge or allow a pledge on any property that may have a material impact on business performance key assets.
Nevertheless, the Group may pledge the aforementioned properties provided that the repayment of the Notes keeps the same level of priority as the pledge on those assets.
Trade and other payables Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other payables to related parties note 14 7,400 16,819 Other taxes and contributions 8,561 3,768 Accrued expenses 760 981 16,721 21,568 The fair value of trade and other payables approximates their book values.
The Companys exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 18.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 232 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 13.
Contingencies As of 31 December 2016 the Company has the following contingencies: The Company is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate income tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Company has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Fresnillo Group the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to: i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission, and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-Group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta or CUFIN account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
In regard to the ejido El Bajo matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009 five members of the El Bajo agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont Penmont, submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court Tribunal Unitario Agrario of Hermosillo, Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land.
The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of the Soledad-Dipolos mine are located.
The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land.
The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The Agrarian Magistrate noted in 2013 that certain remediation activities were necessary and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency SEMARNAT in this respect.
The Agrarian Magistrate further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmonts occupation.
In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order was excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appeared not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits.
In December 2016, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued a subsequent procedural order in which the Court recognised that Penmont complied with the agrarian ruling by having returned the land in dispute and, furthermore, that remediation activities are to be conducted in accordance with Federal environmental guidelines and regulations, as supervised by the competent Federal authorities.
Remediation activities in this respect are pending as the agrarian members have not yet permitted Penmont physical access to the lands.
Penmont has already presented a conceptual mine closure and remediation plan before the Unitarian Agrarian Court in respect of the approximately 300 hectares where Penmont conducted mining activities.
The agrarian community Ejido El Bajo has appealed this procedural order from December 2016 and the final result of the appeal is pending.
In connection with the foregoing matters, and as previously reported by the Company in prior years, members of the El Bajo agrarian community presented a separate claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court, alleging US$65 million in damages as well as requesting the cancellation of Penmonts mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajo lands.
In April 2016, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued a final and definitive ruling on the matter rejecting the claim, which is consistent with the Companys view, as previously reported, that this lawsuit had no merit.
In addition, and as also previously reported by the Company, claimants in the El Bajo matter presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above.
Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont.
As previously reported, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued rulings declaring such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmonts occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area.
Given that Penmont has not conducted significant mining operations or has specific geological interest in these land parcels, any contingency relating to such land parcels is not considered material by the Company.
The case relating to the claims over these land parcels remains subject to finalisation.
Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajo matter.
There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 233 14.
Related party balances and transactions Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party and include the Companys subsidiaries disclosed in note 5, as well as those entities who have a minority participation in Fresnillo Group companies.
Related party balances will be settled in cash.
All the balances as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 and the transactions carried-out with related parties for the years then ended correspond to subsidiaries.
a Related party accounts receivable and payable Accounts receivable Accounts payable US$ thousands US$ thousands 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 Loans with related parties 480,508 706,989 Administrative services 808 7,963 Trademark royalty 3,717 6,592 8,855 Other 480 47 1 Sub-total 480,988 710,753 7,400 16,819 Less-current portion 480,988 710,753 7,400 16,819 Non-current portion Effective interest rates on loans granted to related parties in US dollar range between 2.73% to 7.60% 2015: 2.3% to 2.41% : in Mexican peso range 5.31% to 5.34% 2015: 5.31% to 5.34%.
b Principal transactions with related parties apart from dividends, additional investments and returns of capital are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: Trademark royalties 55,171 34,679 Interest on loans to related parties 32,834 21,824 Other 363 Total income 88,368 56,503 Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: Administrative services 4,550 9,399 Interest on loans from related parties 1,339 Reimbursement of expenses 4,518 Other 455 Total expenses 9,068 11,193 c Compensation of key management personnel of the Company Key management personnel comprise Non-executive Directors.
In 2016, their compensation was US$0.6 million 2015: US$0.7 million.
This compensation paid is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Auditors remuneration The auditors remuneration for the Company was US$1.1 million 2015: US$1.1 million in respect of the audit of its financial statements together with a proportion of the fees in relation to Fresnillo Group audit.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the stand alone financial statements because Group financial statements are prepared which include these fees on a consolidated basis.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 234 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 16.
Notes to the statement of cash flows Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit loss for the year 997,088 894,822 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Impairment reversal loss 5 997,915 945,284 Dividends income 108,889 Income tax expense 43,599 27,150 Other expenses 5,468 1,584 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 2,896 Net finance loss income 103,370 104,722 Foreign exchange loss 3,942 2,689 Working capital adjustments Decrease in trade and other receivables 3,876 8,656 Decrease in prepayments and other assets 143 Increase in trade and other payables 2,617 15,656 Cash generated from operations 34,042 4,514 Income tax paid received 623 3,402 Net cash from operating activities 34,665 7,916 17.
Financial instruments a Fair value category As at 31 December 2016 US$ thousands Available-for-sale At fair value investments through profit at fair value Loans and Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables Trade and other receivables 484 Loans to related parties 480,508 Available-for-sale financial assets 116,171 Derivative financial instruments 23,150 At fair value through profit or At amortised Financial liabilities: loss cost Interest-bearing loans 798,027 Trade and other payables 808 Derivative financial instruments 646 As at 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Available-for-sale At fair value investments through profit or at fair value Loans and Financial assets: loss through OCI receivables Trade and other receivables 3,766 Loans to related parties 706,989 Available-for-sale financial assets 71,442 Derivative financial instruments 117,075 At fair value through profit Financial liabilities: or loss At amortised cost Interest-bearing loans 797,032 Trade and other payables 16,721 Derivative financial instruments 1,427 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 235 17.
Financial instruments continued b Fair values The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, other than those with carrying amounts that are a reasonable approximation of their fair values are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying Amount Fair Value 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 23,150 117,075 23,150 117,075 1 Loans to related parties 480,508 706,989 480,508 706,989 Available-for-sale financial assets 116,171 71,442 116,171 71,442 Financial liabilities: 2 Interest-bearing loans 798,027 797,032 840,904 805,352 Derivative financial instruments 646 1,427 646 1,427 1.
Loans with related party are categorised in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2016 US$ thousands Fair value measure using Quoted prices Significant Significant in active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts 23,005 23,005 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 145 145 23,150 23,150 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 116,171 116,171 116,171 23,150 139,321 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts 66 66 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 580 580 646 646 As of 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts 116,995 116,995 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 80 80 117,075 117,075 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 71,442 71,442 71,442 117,075 188,517 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 1,427 1,427 1,427 1,427 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 236 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 17.
Financial instruments continued The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: Options and forwards foreign exchange contracts The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The foreign currency forward Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies.
The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency.
Option commodity contracts The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The option commodity Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities.
The option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity.
Quoted investments Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Interest-bearing loans Fair value of the Companys interest-bearing loan, is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Loans with related parties Fair value of the Companys loan to related party is determined using a discounted cash flow method based on market interest rates at each reporting date.
c Derivative financial instruments The Company enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its subsidiaries exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from the activities of these subsidiaries.
Also the Company enters into option contracts to manage its subsidiaries exposure to commodity price risk associated with the sales of gold.
In the Groups consolidated financial statements certain of these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Companys stand alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges.
The following tables summarize the fair value of derivative financial instruments held as of 31 December 2016 and 2015.
Financial assets As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 145 1 Swedish krona 1 1 Option contracts: US dollar 78 Commodity contracts 1 Option contracts: Gold 23,005 113,000 Lead 1,060 Zinc 2,935 Total derivative related assets 23,150 117,075 Less Current portion 6,618 19,602 2 Non-current portion 16,532 97,473 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 237 17.
Financial instruments continued Financial liabilities As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 570 Canadian dollar 10 1 Option contracts: US dollar 1,427 Commodity contracts 1 Option contracts: Gold 16 Lead 2 Zinc 48 Total derivative related liabilities 646 1,427 Less Current portion 630 1,427 2 Non-current portion 16 1.
Option contracts operate as zero cost collars.
Non-current portion corresponds to Gold option contracts that mature in a period over one year from the reporting date until 30 December 2019.
Financial risk management Overview The Companys principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, are comprised of trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale financial assets, loans to and from related parties, interest-bearing loans and trade payables.
The Company enters into certain derivative transactions with the purpose of managing foreign exchange risk arising on the activity and transactions of its subsidiaries.
The Company has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Market risk, including foreign currency, interest rate and equity price risks Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Companys exposure to each of the above risks and the Companys objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company risk management framework.
The Companys risk management policies have been established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company activities.
The Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Company risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 238 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 18.
Financial risk management continued a Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, or interest rates will affect the Company income or the value of its financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign currency risk The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar.
Transactions in foreign currencies include the purchase of services, payment or receipt of dividends and other items.
As a result, the Company has financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods.
There is no impact on the Companys equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 15% 388 10% 330 2015 10% 11,349 10% 6,556 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 10% 63 10% 94 2015 5% 213 10% 78 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar compared to the euro, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 5% 459 10% 1,024 2015 10% 10% FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 239 18.
Financial risk management continued Commodity risk The Companys subsidiaries have exposure to changes in metals prices specifically gold, lead and zinc which have a significant effect on the Companys results.
These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles.
The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge against precious metals commodity price exposure in its subsidiaries, see mentioned in note 17 c. The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity relating to changes in the fair value of commodity derivative contracts of financial assets and liabilities, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
There is no impact on the Companys equity other than the effect on profit before tax.
Effect on profit before tax: increase Increase decrease in commodity prices decrease Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands 2016 10% 25% 40% 40% 112,583 15% 20% 30% 15% 59,589 2015 15% 20% 25% 20% 98,118 10% 15% 25% 15% 121,716 Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments.
The Companys earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on any floating element of the loans with related parties and interest earned on cash balances.
Interest-bearing loans are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value but not its carrying amount.
Therefore, interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are excluded from the table below.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of all financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease in decrease Year ended 31 December interest rate US$ thousands 2016 65 1,870 20 575 2015 50 551 10 110 Equity price risk The Company has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Companys profit before tax and equity.
Effect on profit Effect on equity: Increase before tax: increase decrease in increase decrease Year ended 31 December equity price decrease US$ thousands 2016 100% 116,172 50% 58,086 2015 50% 35,721 30% 5,135 16,297 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 240 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 18.
Financial risk management continued b Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Companys ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The financial assets are trade and other receivables, intercompany loans, cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale financial assets.
The Companys policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties failure to honour their obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Companys exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Companys exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counter party.
The Companys financial assets are with counterparties that the Company considers to have an appropriate credit rating.
As disclosed in note 14, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties.
At each balance sheet date, the Companys financial assets were neither impaired nor past due.
The Companys policies are aimed at minimising losses from the foreign currency and commodity hedging contracts.
The Companys foreign currency and commodity derivative contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Companys surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. which manages cash and cash equivalents investing in a number of financial institutions.
In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Company only deposits cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with a credit rating of M-1 Moodys and mxA-1 Standard and Poors and above, and only for periods of less than four months.
The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes.
See note 6 for the maximum credit exposure for available-for-sale investments, note 8 for cash and cash equivalents and note 14 for related party balances.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Company monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 892,534 1,123,869 Derivatives financial instruments liabilities 630 16 646 Trade and other payables 7,400 7,400 US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 938,801 1,170,136 Derivatives financial instruments liabilities 342,108 730,303 317,359 1,389,770 Trade and other payables 16,819 16,819 The disclosed financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows.
However, those amounts may be settled gross or net.
The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms.
US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Inflows 10,932 10,932 Outflows 11,229 11,229 Net 297 297 US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Inflows 347,301 746,924 319,165 1,413,390 Outflows 342,108 730,303 317,359 1,389,770 Net 5,193 16,621 1,806 23,620 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from derivative financial instruments which the Company expects are going to be exercised from 2017 to 2019 as at 31 December 2016, and from 2016 to 2019 as at 31 December 2015, either by the Company or counterparty.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 241 18.
Financial risk management continued Management considers that the Company has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital management The primary objective of the Companys capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value.
Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains and losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-forsale financial assets.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The Companys dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows.
