Mineral resources are reported inclusive of ore reserves.
Mineral resources are not ore reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability.
All gures rounded to reect the relative accuracy of the estimates.
Gold, silver, lead and zinc assays were capped where appropriate.
Mineral resources are reported at metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions, variable metallurgical recovery assumptions variable metallurgical recoveries as a function of grade and relative metal distribution, mining costs, processing costs, general and administrative G&A costs, and variable NSR factors NSR factors include smelting and transportation costs.
The AgEq is calculated by dividing the cost by the Ag net value factor which includes prices, recoveries, and payabilities.
The cut-off grade for Cinegas mineral resources varies between 95 and 132 gpt AgEq.
The Mega Centauro, Soledad Dipolos, and Noche Buena resources are reported within pit shells run at a US$1,250 oz Au price.
The Mega Centauro, Soledad Dipolos, Noche Buena open pit mines has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.3 gpt to 1.1 gpt.
Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model.
Based on past production, projected in situ silver in the open pit M & I & I resource is approximately in the range of 16 to 17 Moz.
Mega Centauro mineral resources are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade.
Oxide material above 0.25 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, transitional and sulfide material above 0.30 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, oxide material above 0.82 gpt Au reports to the mill, transitional and sulfide material above 0.44 gpt Au reports to the mill.
The Soledad Dipolos mine has been subject to legal action regarding surface access.
SRK has been provided with reassurances that Fresnillo has a reasonable chance to reacquire surface rights to these areas.
Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of metal equivalent grades are: Gold US$ oz 1,250.00, Silver US$ oz 17.50, Lead US$ lb 0.85 and Zinc US$ lb 0.95 The resources were estimated by Fresnillo.
Dr. Bart Stryhas, CPG #11034, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Minera Penmont and San Julin.
Matthew Hastings, M. Sc, P. Geo, MAusIMM #314693 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Cinega.
Benjamin Parsons, BSc, MSc Geology, MAusIMM CP #222568 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Fresnillo and Saucito.
All figures rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates.
Metal assays were capped where appropriate.
Mineral resources are reported at variable metal, metal equivalent or NSR cut-off grades and assuming reasonable metal recoveries.
Orisyvo, Lucerito, Candamea, Rodeo and Guachichil mineral resources are reported inside a conceptual pit shell based on appropriate mining and processing costs and metal recoveries for oxide and sulfide material.
Equivalent metal grades and conceptual pit optimization are based on US$1,250 US$1,400 per ounce of gold for underground or open pit projects, respectively, US$17.50 per ounce of silver, US$0.95 per pound of zinc and US$0.85 per pound of lead.
For Pilarica, equivalent metal grades are based on US$21.00 per ounce of silver, US$1.14 per pound of zinc and US$1.02 per pound of lead.
Cut-off grade calculations assume variable metallurgical recoveries.
Portions of the Valdecaas deposit within the Minera Juanicipio property where Fresnillo plc holds a 56% interest.
Mineral resources quoted reect Fresnillo plcs attributable 56%ownership.
Mineral resources statement prepared independently by SRK CA.
Mineral reserves are reported at metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions, variable metallurgical recovery assumptions variable metallurgical recoveries as a function of grade and relative metal distribution, mining costs, processing costs, general and administrative G&A costs, and variable NSR factors NSR factors include smelting and transportation costs.
Reserves include planned dilution to a minimum mining width and to minable outlines.
The cut-off grades for the Cinega reserve vary between 183 and 243 gpt Ag equivalent.
Reserves have no additional dilution added to that inherent in the Selective Mining Unit SMU of 15m x 15m x 8m.
Reserves are converted from resources through the process of pit optimisation, pit design, production schedule and supported by a Minera Penmont cash flow model.
Mega Centauro mineral reserves are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade.
SRK has been provided with documents indicating a reasonable chance that these actions will be settled in favour of the mine.
Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of metal equivalent grades are: Gold US$ oz 1,250.00, Silver US$ oz 17.50, Lead US$ lb 0.85 and Zinc US$ lb 0.95 Full mining recovery assumed with a factor applied for pillars where appropriate.
The reserves are valid as of December 31, 2016.
All topography is valid as of October 31, 2016.
For the next audit, Increased reserves are expected at Herradura-Centauro following estimated resource growth.
Further work is required to estimate the growth of reserves.
The ore reserves were estimated by Fresnillo.
Bret C Swanson, BE Min MMSAQP #04418QP, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the open pit reserve calculations.
Fernando Rodrigues, BS Mining, MBA, MMSAQP #01405, MAusIMM #304726 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the underground reserve calculations.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 249 Shareholder Information Financial calendar Report a scam Preliminary Statement 28 February 2017 If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA First Quarter Production Report 26 April 2017 using the form at www.
uk scams where you can also review Annual General Meeting 23 May 2017 the latest scams or call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Second Quarter Production Report 26 July 2017 Interim Statement 1 August 2017 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then contact Third Quarter Production Report 25 October 2017 Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. Dividend payment schedule For further information, please visit our website: 2016 Final Dividend Record Date 28 April 2017 www.
com or contact: 2016 Final Dividend Payment Date 26 May 2017 Fresnillo plc 2017 Interim Dividend Record Date 11 August 2017 Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 2017 Interim Dividend Payment Date 8 September 2017 Gabriela Mayor, Head of Investor Relations Registrar Joint Corporate Broker Forward looking statements Equiniti Ltd Merrill Lynch International This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to Aspect House 2 King Edward Street be, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements Spencer Road, Lancing London EC1A 1HQ can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom the terms believes, estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, expects, United Kingdom intends, may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, Registered office Auditor plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These forward- 21 Upper Brook Street Ernst & Young LLP looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
London W1K 7PY 1 More London Place They appear in a number of places throughout this document and United Kingdom London SE1 2AF include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Groups United Kingdom intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, the Groups results of operations, financial position, liquidity, Corporate headquarters Solicitor prospects, growth, strategies and the silver and gold industries.
549 Linklaters LLP their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty Torre 2, Piso 11 One Silk Street because they relate to future events and circumstances.
Delegacin Miguel Hidalgo London EC2Y 8HQ 11250 Mexico, D. F. United Kingdom Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future Mexico performance and the actual results of the Groups operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the markets Sponsor and Corporate Broker and the industry in which the Group operates, may differ materially JPMorgan Cazenove Limited from those described in, or suggested by, the forward-looking 25 Bank Street statements contained in this document.
In addition, even if the results London E14 5JP of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development United Kingdom of the markets and the industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this Share fraud warning document, those results or developments may not be indicative of Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the results or developments in subsequent periods.
A number of factors blue and offered shares that turn out to be worthless or noncould cause results and developments to differ materially from those existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements including, from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms, mostly based abroad.
without limitation, general economic and business conditions, While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in this way usually lose their money.
Most victims are experienced regulation, currency fluctuations including the US dollar and Mexican investors, losing on average 20,000. peso exchange rates, the Groups ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to convert its resources Protect yourself into reserves and its mineral potential into resources or reserves, If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, changes in its business strategy, political and economic uncertainty.
inflated prices for shares you own, or free company or research reports, take these steps before handing over any money: Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from actual results.
Any forward-looking statements in this document 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation.
speak only as of the date of this document, reflect the Groups current 2.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk view with respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to register to ensure they are authorised.
future events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating 3.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact to the Groups operations, results of operations, growth strategy and the firm.
Investors should specifically consider the factors identified 4.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are in this document which could cause actual results to differ before no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out making an investment decision.
Subject to the requirements of the of date.
Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the 5.
Search the list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any doing business with.
obligation or undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions 6.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
to any forward-looking statements in this document that may occur due to any change in the Groups expectations or to reflect events If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares, you will not or circumstances after the date of this document.
have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 250 Notes FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 251 Notes Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 252 Notes Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016
