Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 172 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 5 of the Parent Company accounts the Group.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
The registered address of Peoles is Calzada Legaria 549, Mexico City 11250.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
Further information on related party balances and transactions with Peoles group companies is disclosed in note 27.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 27 February 2017.
The Groups principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production.
The primary contents ofthis production are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
Further information about the Group operating mines and its principal activities is disclosed in note 3.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and consolidation, and statement of compliance Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial assets and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all values are rounded tothenearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as of 31 December 2016 and 2015, and the results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended.
Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated tothe extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition by-acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Anylosses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, a transaction with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interest are also recorded in equity.
b Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31December 2015.
During 2016, there were no amendments to existing accounting policies.
As at 31 December 2015, derivatives relating to the gold hedging programme initiated in 2014 that mature after one year had been presented as current assets.
During 2016, the Group restated the prior year comparatives and reclassified these derivatives to non-current assets.
The reclassification resulted in an increase in non-current assets and a corresponding reduction in current assets by US$97.5 million as at 31 December 2015, with no impact on previously reported profit, other comprehensive income, liabilities, equity, cash flow or earnings per share.
In addition, there is no tax effect and no impact on segmental disclosures.
New standards, interpretations and amendments new standards adopted by the Group The Group has adopted IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1.
The amendments clarify existing requirements on materiality, aggregation and disaggregation in the preparation of financial statements and presentation of the notes.
This amendment had no impact in the financial information of the Group.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 173 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Other than the above mentioned amendment there were no significant new standards that the Group was required to adopt effective from 1 January 2016.
Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, as applicable to the Groups financial statements, when they become effective, except where indicated.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which concludes all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
The Group plans to adopt IFRS 9 Financial instruments from the mandatory effective date.
The Group has completed a preliminary assessment of the expected major impacts of this standard, the most relevant are set out below.
Nature of change IFRS 9 addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
The derecognition rules are consistent with those under IAS 39.
Main impact IFRS 9 makes significant changes in the classification of financial assets.
Whereas under IAS 39, the default classification for financial assets was available-for-sale financial assets, under IFRS 9 the residual category is to recognise fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Generally under IFRS 9, investments in equity instruments are recognised as FVTPL unless the Group makes an election, in respect of investments that are not held for trading, to measure the instruments at fair value through OCI FVOCI.
The Group expects to designate all investments currently recognised in available-for-sale financial assets as FVOCI.
In accordance with IFRS 9, this means that all movements relating to such assets are recognised in OCI.
Neither gains nor losses on disposal or significant or prolonged declines in the value of these investments are recognised in profit or loss.
Hedge accounting The new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Groups risk management practices.
IFRS 9 changes the accounting requirements for the time value of purchased options where only the intrinsic value of such options has been designated as the hedging instrument.
In such cases, changes in the time value of options are initially recognised in OCI.
Amounts related to the time value of options are reclassified to profit or loss or as a basis adjustment to assets or liabilities upon maturity of the hedged item, or, in the case of a hedged item that realises over time, over the life of the hedged item.
Under IAS 39, the change in time value of options is recorded in the income statement.
Impairment model The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses ECL rather than on the basis of credit losses incurred as is the case under IAS 39.
It will apply to Groups financial assets classified at amortised cost and debt instruments measured at FVOCI.
IFRS 9 also sets out a simplified approach for traded and lease receivables that do not contain a significant financing component in accordance with IFRS 15.
Expected date of The Group plans to adopt IFRS 9 effective 1 January 2018 and plans to apply the limited exemption relating adoption by Group to transition for classification and measurement and impairment, and accordingly will not restate comparative and considerations periods in the year of initial application.
Generally, the change in hedge requirements are accounted for prospectively: however, in the case of the recognition of time value of options in OCI, this is adjusted for retrospectively.
The Group expects the adjustment from retained earnings to hedging reserve as at 1 January 2017, the beginning of the comparative period for the year of implementation, to be US$23.0 million, reflecting the time value of the open positions as at 1 January 2017.
In the year ended 31 December 2016, this amount was recognised in finance cost, in accordance with IAS 39.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 174 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
The Group plans to adopt IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from the mandatory effective date.
Nature of change IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for recognition of revenue from contracts with customers based on a core principle that an entity should recognise revenue representing the transfer of promised goods or services to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Main impact As described in the accounting policies section, The Groups revenue is derived from one revenue stream that corresponds to the sale of goods concentrates, precipitates and dor bars.
The Group has evaluated recognition and measurement of revenue based on the five-step model in IFRS 15 and has not identified any material expected financial impacts.
IFRS 15 includes disclosure requirements to enable users of the financial statements to understand the amount, timing, risk and judgements related to revenue recognition and related cash flows.
Certain disclosures will change as a result of the requirements of IFRS 15.
The Group expects this to include a breakdown of revenue from customers and revenue from other sources, including the movement in the value of embedded derivatives in sales contracts.
Expected date of The Group plans to adopt IFRS 15 effective 1 January 2018 and to apply the simplified transition method, hence adoption by Group the cumulative effect of adoption, if any, will be recognised in retained earnings.
The Group currently expects and considerations the cumulative effect to be nil.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application is permitted.
However, as there are several interactions between IFRS 16 and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, early application is restricted to entities that also early adopt IFRS 15.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and is considering early adoption in 2018 to align with the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15.
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative The amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes.
The amendments do not prescribe a specific format to disclose financing activities: however, an entity may fulfil the disclosure objective by providing reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the statement of financial position for liabilities arising from financing activities.
The amendments apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with earlier application permitted.
Entities are not required to present comparative information for earlier periods.
The amendments to this standard are not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Group.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments to IAS 12 clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the assets tax base.
They also clarify certain other aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early adoption permitted.
IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration IFRIC 22 provides requirements about which exchange rate to use in reporting foreign currency transactions when payment is made or received in advance.
The interpretation requires the Company to determine a date of transaction for the purposes of selecting an exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income.
In case there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the entity should determine a date of the transaction for each flow of advance consideration.
IFRIC 22 is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier adoption is permitted.
The interpretation is not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Group.
The IASB has issued other amendments to standards that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 175 2.
Significant accounting policies continued c Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates andassumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included intheconsolidated financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes tothe consolidated financial statements.
Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are: Determination of functional currency note 2 d : The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Evaluation of the status of projects note 2 e : The evaluation of project status impacts the accounting for costs incurred and requires management judgement.
This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs, the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase.
These judgements directly impact the treatment of costs incurred and proceeds from the sale of metals from ore produced.
Stripping costs note 2 e : The Group incurs waste removal costs stripping costs during the development and production phases of its surface mining operations.
During the production phase, stripping costs production stripping costs can be incurred both in relation to the production of inventory in that period and the creation of improved access and mining flexibility in relation to ore to be mined in the future.
The former are included as part of the costs of inventory, while the latter are capitalised as a stripping activity asset, where certain criteria are met.
Once the Group has identified production stripping for a surface mining operation, judgement is required in identifying the separate components of the ore bodies for that operation, to which stripping costs should be allocated.
Generally a component is a specific volume of the ore body that is made more accessible by the stripping activity.
In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel to analyse each of the mine plans.
The mine plans and, therefore, the identification of components, will vary between mines for a number of reasons.
These include, but are not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and or financial considerations.
The Group reassesses the components of ore bodies annually in line with the preparation of mine plans.
In the current year, this reassessment did not give rise to any changes in the identification of components.
Once production stripping costs have been identified, judgement is also required to identify a suitable production measure to be used to allocate production stripping costs between inventory and any stripping activity asset s for each component.
The Group considers that the ratio of the expected tonnes of waste to be stripped for an expected tonnes of ore to be mined for a specific component of the ore body is the most suitable production measure.
Furthermore, judgements and estimates are also used to apply the units of production method in determining the depreciable lives of the stripping activity asset s. Qualifying assets note 2 e : All interest-bearing loans are held by the parent company and were not obtained for any specific assets acquisition, construction, or production.
Funds from these loans are transferred to subsidiaries to meet the strategic objectives of the Group or are otherwise held centrally.
Due to this financing structure, judgement is required in determining whether those borrowings are attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
Therefore, management determines whether borrowings are attributable to an asset or group of assets based on whether the investment in an operating or development stage project is classified as contributing to achieving the strategic growth of the Group.
Contingencies note 26 : By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 176 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources, note 2 e : Ore reserves are estimates of the amount of ore that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups mining properties: mineral resources are an identified mineral occurrence with reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by appropriately qualified persons relating to the geological and technical data on the size, depth, shape and grade of the ore body and suitable production techniques and recovery rates, in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code 2012.
Such an analysis requires complex geological judgements to interpret the data.
The estimation of recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources is based upon factors such as geological assumptions and judgements made in estimating the size and grade of the ore body, estimates of commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, future capital requirements and production costs.
As additional geological information is produced during the operation of a mine, the economic assumptions used and the estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources may change.
Such changes may impact the Groups reported balance sheet and income statementincluding: The carrying value of property, plant and equipment and mining properties may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows, which consider both ore reserves and mineral resources.
Depreciation and amortisation charges in the income statement may change where such charges are determined using the unit-of-production method based on ore reserves.
Stripping costs capitalised in the statement of financial position, either as part of mine properties or inventory, or charged to profit or loss may change due to changes in stripping ratios.
Provisions for mine closure costs may change where changes to the ore reserve and resources estimates affect expectations about when such activities will occur.
The recognition and carrying value of deferred income tax assets may change due to changes regarding the existence of such assets and in estimates of the likely recovery of such assets.
Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes, notes 2 e and 12: Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit-ofproduction method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine specific assets.
Depreciation amortisation charge is proportional to the depletion of the estimated remaining life of mine of production.
Estimated useful lives of other assets are based on the expected usage of the asset.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to expectations of the use of the asset by the Group, including with reference to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is used.
Silverstream, note 14: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires significant estimation by management.
The term of the derivative is based on Sabinas life of mine which is currently 20 years and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
For further detail on theinputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 30.
The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 31.
Assessment of recoverability of property plant and equipment and impairment charges, note 2 f : The recoverability of an asset requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associated production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment.
Estimation of the mine closure costs, notes 2 l and 21: Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect theultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Income tax, notes 2 r and 10: Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order toutilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application ofexisting tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability oftheGroup to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 177 2.
Significant accounting policies continued d Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Parent Companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all operating entities, this is US dollars.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of thetransaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value isdetermined.
For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into working condition for its intended use.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life hasbeen assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-ofproduction UOP basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit-of-production calculations, are accounted forprospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 6 Plant and equipment 4 1 Mining properties and development costs 16 Other assets 3 1.
Depreciation of mining properties and development cost are determined using the unit-of-production method.
An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising at fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount oftheasset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is fide-recognised.
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use.
Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
Disposal of assets Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Mining properties and development costs Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project when incurred.
Purchased rights to ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part ofabusiness combination.
Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained from that specific concession.
Mine development costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study hasbeen performed for the specific project.
When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained pre-operative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as a mine development cost.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 178 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation, the initial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The Group cease the capitalisation of borrowing cost when the physical construction of the asset is complete and is ready for its intended use.
Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs.
Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit-of-production method based onthe estimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate.
Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value, if any.
Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of construction in progress is notdepreciated.
Subsequent expenditures All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those partsthat are replaced, is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statementas incurred.
Stripping costs In a surface mine operation, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste material in order to gain access to the ore bodies stripping activity.
During development and pre-production phases, the stripping activity costs are capitalised as part of the initial cost of development and construction of the mine the stripping activity asset and charged as depreciation or depletion to cost of sales, in the income statement, based on the mines units of production once commercial operations begin.
Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a surface mine.
At the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the surface mine the activity is referred to as production stripping.
Production stripping cost is capitalised only if the following criteria is met: it is probable that the future economic benefits improved access to an ore body associated with the stripping activity will flow to theGroup: the Group can identify the component of an ore body for which access has been improved: and the costs relating to the improved access to that component can be measured reliably.
If not all of the criteria are met, the production stripping costs are charged to the income statement as operating costs as they areincurred.
Stripping activity costs associated with such development activities are capitalised into existing mining development assets, as mining properties and development cost, within property, plant and equipment, using a measure that considers the volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume, for a given volume of ore production.
This measure is known as component stripping ratio, which is revised annually in accordance with the mine plan.
The amount capitalised is subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body related to the stripping activity asset, by using the units of production method.
The identification of components and the expected useful lives of those components are evaluated annually.
Depreciation is recognised as cost of sales in the income statement.
The capitalised stripping activity asset is carried at cost less accumulated depletion depreciation, less impairment, if any.
Cost includes the accumulation of costs directly incurred to perform the stripping activity that improves access to the identified component of ore, plus an allocation of directly attributable overhead costs.
The costs associated with incidental operations are excluded from the cost of the stripping activity asset.
In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel for each mining operation to analyse each of the mine plans.
Generally, a component will be a subset of the total ore body and a mine may have several components that are identified based on the mine plan.
The mine plans and therefore the identification of components can vary between mines for a number of reasons including but not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and or financial considerations.
f Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If there are indicators ofimpairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups ofassets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at therecoverable amount in the balance sheet.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 179 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The recoverable amount of an asset The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in an orderly sale transaction between market participants.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years.
Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement.
g Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: held to maturity investments: available-for-sale financial assets: or loans and receivables or derivatives designated as hedging instruments, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions oftheinstrument.
Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings payables or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costsincurred.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss at inception are included in this category.
Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the short term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held-fortrading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses arising from changes in fair value, presented as finance costs or finance income in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
After initial measurement, such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains or losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Loans and receivables from contractors are carried at amortised cost.
Loans and borrowings After initial recognition at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss, in the income statement, when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
The Group adjusts the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instruments original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate.
Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense.
This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
For more information, refer to note 20.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held to maturity investments.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 180 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market: therefore, a fair value can bereliably measured.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-tomarket unrealised gains orlosses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is fide-recognised.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are fide-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income are included intheincome statement within other operating income or expense.
fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
h Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets isimpaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed atinitial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists foran individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and forwhich an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment ofimpairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency orsignificant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are fide recognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged, by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the incomestatement.
i Inventories Finished goods and work in progress inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 181 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
An allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock.
A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such an allowance.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
j Short-term investments Where the Group invests in short-term instruments which are either not readily convertible into known amounts of cash or are subject to risk of changes in value that are not insignificant, these instruments are classified as short-term investments.
Short-term investments are classified as loans and receivables.
k Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
l Provisions Mine closure cost A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure, restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, the portion of the increase is charged directly as an expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
m Employee benefits The Group operates the following plans: Defined benefit pension plan This funded plan is based on each employees earnings and years of service.
This plan was open to all employees in Mexico until it was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007.
The plan is denominated in Mexican pesos.
For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index NCPI.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an external actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
The discount rate is the yield on bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits havealready vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which theobligations are to be settled directly.
The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form ofrefunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan.
Net interest cost is recognised in finance cost and return on plan assets other than amounts reflected in net interest cost is recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due.
The contributions are based on the employees salary.
This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme.
Seniority premium for voluntary separation This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year forthose unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service.
Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right toa payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service.
For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 182 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an external actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised as income orexpense in the period in which they occur.
Other Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies.
Termination payments for involuntary retirement dismissals are charged to the income statement, when incurred.
n Employee profit sharing In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to 10% ofthe taxable income of each fiscal year.
PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their most recent salaries.
The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement.
PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
o Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term: c there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset: or d there is a substantial change to the asset.
Group as a lessee Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance ofthe liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognisedover the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise tothe reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b above.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4. p Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes.
Sale of goods Revenue is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The Group recognises revenue on a provisional basis at the time concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are delivered to the customers smelter orrefinery, using the Groups best estimate of contained metal.
Revenue is subject to adjustment once the analysis of the product samples is completed, contract conditions have been fulfilled and final settlement terms are agreed.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, sales of concentrates and precipitates throughout each calendar month, as well as dor bars that are delivered after the 20th day of each month, are provisionally priced subject to a final adjustment based on the average price for the month following the delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Dor bars that are delivered in the first 20 days of each month are finally priced in the month of delivery.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 183 2.
Significant accounting policies continued For sales of goods that are subject to provisional pricing, revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met using the provisional price.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotation period stipulated in the contract until the quotation period ends.
The selling price of the metals can be reliably measured as these are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
The customer deducts treatment and refining charges before settlement.
Therefore, the fair value of consideration received for the sale of goods is net of those charges.
The Group recognises in selling expenses a levy in respect of the Extraordinary Mining Right as sales of gold and silver are recognised.
The Extraordinary Mining Right consists of a 0.5% rate, applicable to the owners of mining titles.
The payment must be calculated over the total sales of all mining concessions.
The payment of this mining right must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year and can be credited against corporate income tax.
The Group also recognises in selling expenses a discovery premium royalty equivalent to 1% of the value of the mineral extracted and sold during the year from certain mining titles granted by the Mexican Geological Survey SGM in the San Julin mine.
The premium is settled to SGM on a quarterly basis.
Other income Other income is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
q Exploration expenses Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability ofan identified resource.
Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life: and exploration expenses: costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves: and costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified byproject.
Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
r Taxation Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the country the Group operates.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets andliabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timingof the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to theextent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future andtaxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable thatsufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 184 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in equity and not in the incomestatement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Mining rights The Special Mining Right is considered an income tax under IFRS and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences arising in the determination of the Special Mining Right see note 10.
Sales tax Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: when the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable: and when receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
s Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodities price which impact its financial and business transactions.
Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic marketconditions.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The full fair value of a derivative is classified as non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the item is more than 12 months.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to theincome statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type ofderivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates forcontracts with similar maturity profiles, European foreign exchange options are valued using the Black Scholes model.
The Silverstream contract is valued using a Net Present Value valuation approach.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for the undertaken hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that theyactually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Cash flow hedges For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as in other comprehensive income and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such aswhen a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For gains or losses related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk these are included, in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected.
Where the hedged item is the cost of anon-financial asset or liability, the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised directly as finance costs, in the income statement of the related period.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in other comprehensive income from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 185 2.
Significant accounting policies continued When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the income statement.
When hedging with options, the Group designates only the intrinsic value movement of the hedging option within the hedge relationship.
The time value of the option contracts is therefore excluded from the hedge designation.
Changes in fair value of time value is recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related tothe underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
t Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes 12 or more months to get ready for its intended use or sale a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where surplus funds are available for a short term from funds borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from the temporary investment of such amounts is also capitalised and deducted from the total capitalised borrowing cost.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
u Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 30 and 31.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: in the principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectlyobservable.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 30.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 186 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued v Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys shareholders or Board asappropriate.
Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys subsidiaries.
Segment reporting For management purposes, the Group is organised into operating segments based on producing mines.
1 At 31 December 2016, the Group has six reportable operating segments as follows: the Fresnillo mine, located in the state of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine: the Saucito mine, located in the state of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine: the Cinega mine, located in the state of Durango, an underground gold mine: including the San Ramn satellite mine: the Herradura mine, located in the state of Sonora, a surface gold mine: the Soledad-Dipolos mine, located in the state of Sonora, a surface gold mine: and the Noche Buena mine, located in state of Sonora, a surface gold mine.
Due to its size in the current year, the operations at San Julin located on the border between the states of Chihuahua and Durango, are reported within Other segments.
The operating performance and financial results for each of these mines are reviewed by management.
As the Groups chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information.
Management monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of performance assessment and making decisions about resource allocation.
Segment performance is evaluated without taking into account certain adjustments included in revenue as reported in the consolidated income statement, and certain costs included within Cost of sales and Gross profit which are considered to be outside of the control ofthe operating management of the mines.
The table below provides a reconciliation from segment profit to gross profit as per the consolidated income statement.
Other income and expenses included in the consolidated income statement are not allocated to operating segments.
Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
In 2016 and 2015, substantially all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico.
Operating segments The following tables present revenue and profit information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2016 and2015, respectively: Year ended 31 December 2016 Adjustments SoledadNoche and 4 5 US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cinega Dipolos Saucito Buena Other eliminations Total Revenues: 1 Third party 327,957 655,025 169,530 459,590 225,374 66,441 1,586 1,905,503 Inter-segment 77,385 77,385 Segment revenues 327,957 655,025 169,530 459,590 225,374 143,826 75,799 1,905,503 2 Segment profit 224,163 369,896 100,105 12,977 363,780 83,852 109,212 17,854 1,246,131 Foreign exchange hedging losses 2,770 Depreciation and amortisation 346,502 Employee profit sharing 14,744 Gross profit as per the income statement 882,115 3 Capital expenditure 52,794 78,825 32,745 102,398 8,620 158,668 434,050 1.
Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$141.1 million.
Segment profit excluding foreign exchange hedging losses, depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing.
Capital expenditure represents the cash outflow in respect of additions to property, plant and equipment, including mine development, construction of leaching pads, purchase of mine equipment and capitalised stripping activity, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision.
Significant additions include the construction of second beneficiation plant Merrill Crowe at Herradura and the expansion of the flotation plant and the construction of the pyrites plant at Saucito.
During 2016, this segment did not operate due to the Bajo conflict note 26.
Segment profit is derived from the changes in the net realisable value allowance against inventory note 15.
Other includes San Julin, the Juanicipio project and inter-segment leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V. FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 187 3.
Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$142.8 million.
Capital expenditure represents the cash outflow in respect of additions to property, plant and equipment including mine development, construction of leaching pads, purchase of mine equipment and stripping activity asset excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision.
Significant additions include construction of finalisation of the dynamic leaching plant and purchase of land at Herradura, construction of employees facilities at Cinega, expansion of the flotation plant at Saucito and the purchase of land at Noche Buena.
During 2015 this segment did not operate due to the Bajo conflict note 26.
Other includes San Julin, the Juanicipio project and inter-segment leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V. The operations of San Julin have been reclassified from the Fresnillo segment to other to align to the presentation in the current year.
Revenues Revenues reflect the sale of goods, being concentrates dor, slag, and precipitates of which the primary contents are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
a Revenues by product sold Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Lead concentrates containing silver, gold, lead and by-products 792,770 691,096 Dor and slag containing gold, silver and by-products 880,447 626,446 Zinc concentrates containing zinc, silver and by-products 120,889 81,184 Precipitates containing gold and silver 111,397 45,660 1,905,503 1,444,386 Substantially all lead concentrates, precipitates, dor and slag, were sold to Peoles metallurgical complex, Met-Mex, for smelting andrefining.
b Value of metal content in products sold For products other than refined silver and gold, invoiced revenues are derived from the value of metal content adjusted by treatment and refining charges incurred by the metallurgical complex of the customer.
The value of the metal content of the products sold, before treatment and refining charges is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silver 724,024 617,434 Gold 1,133,067 828,476 Zinc 106,461 73,018 Lead 83,070 68,277 Value of metal content in products sold 2,046,622 1,587,205 Adjustment for treatment and refining charges 141,119 142,819 1 Total revenues 1,905,503 1,444,386 1.
Include provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives resulting in a gain of US$2.2 million 2015: gain of US$2.3 million and hedging gain of US$1.6 million 2015: gain of US$3.9 million.
For further detail, refer to note 2 p. The average realised prices for the gold and silver content of products sold, prior to the deduction of treatment and refining charges, were: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ per ounce US$ per ounce 2 Gold 1,246.5 1,126.5 2 Silver 17.2 15.6 2.
Reported revenue does not include the results of hedging.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 188 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Cost of sales Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Depreciation and amortisation notes 2 e and 12 346,502 331,209 Personnel expenses note 7 80,360 80,567 Maintenance and repairs 90,650 94,837 Operating materials 131,786 135,059 Energy 117,995 117,908 Contractors 174,167 175,898 Freight 7,921 9,821 Insurance 4,990 5,042 Mining concession rights and contributions 10,347 10,853 Other 14,721 15,211 Cost of production 979,439 976,405 Losses on foreign currency hedges 2,770 28,589 Change in work in progress and finished goods ore inventories 61,488 1,309 Change in net realisable value allowance against inventory note 15 20,309 5,013 1,023,388 1,011,316 6.
Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Contractors 88,822 105,161 Administrative services 6,243 6,907 Mining concession rights and contributions 14,027 15,684 Personnel expenses note 7 5,521 5,748 Assays 2,982 2,788 Maintenance and repairs 329 384 Operating materials 449 416 Rentals 1,524 1,874 Energy 407 454 Other 878 830 121,182 140,246 These exploration expenses were mainly incurred in areas of the Fresnillo, Herradura, La Cinega, Saucito and San Julin mines, the San Ramn satellite mine and Orysivo, Rodeo, Guanajuato and Centauro Deep projects.
In addition, exploration expenses of US$7.9 million 2015: US$8.4 million were incurred in the year on projects located in Peru.
The following table sets forth liabilities generally trade payables incurred in the exploration activities of the Group companies engaged only in exploration, principally Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Liabilities related to exploration activities 1,643 917 Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by the Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
Cash flows relating to exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Operating cash out flows related to exploration activities 120,457 142,874 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 189 7.
Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Employees profit sharing 15,145 12,791 Salaries and wages 36,296 36,544 Bonuses 10,233 10,713 Legal contributions 12,979 12,644 Other benefits 8,035 8,084 Vacations and vacations bonus 1,634 2,464 Social security 4,459 5,310 1 Post-employment benefits 3,567 4,572 Other 8,686 8,262 101,034 101,384 1.
Post-employment benefits include US$1.5 million associated to benefits corresponding to the defined contribution plan 2015: US$1.6 million.
a Personnel expenses are reflected in the following line items: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cost of sales note 5 80,360 80,567 Administrative expenses 15,153 15,069 Exploration expenses note 6 5,521 5,748 101,034 101,384 b The monthly average number of employees during the year was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 No.
Mining 1,881 1,812 Plant concentration 550 552 Exploration 454 519 Maintenance 894 755 Administration and other 791 725 Total 4,570 4,362 8.
Other operating income and expenses Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other income: Rentals 3 166 Selling of scrap 610 5 Other 785 607 1,398 778 Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other expenses: 1 Maintenance 926 1,098 Donations 317 714 Environmental activities 1,005 4,022 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1,103 3,757 Impairment on available-for-sale financial assets 2,896 Engineering and design studies 974 Consumption tax expensed 940 635 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 3,005 Other 3,146 2,554 10,442 16,650 1.
Costs relating to Compaa Minera las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 190 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
Finance income and finance costs Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance income: Interest on short-term deposits and investments 4,542 1,779 1 Fair value movement on derivatives 61,224 Other 2,416 2,835 6,958 65,838 Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance costs: Interest on interest-bearing loans 29,006 35,969 1 Fair value movement on derivatives 40,294 Unwinding of discount on provisions 10,476 8,586 Other 547 908 80,323 45,463 1.
Principally relates to the time value associated with gold commodity options see note 30 for further detail.
Income tax expense a Major components of income tax expense: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated income statement: Corporate income tax Current: Income tax charge 167,873 118,410 1 Amounts over provided in previous years 1,646 29,093 166,227 89,317 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 53,581 31,373 Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 40,058 8,316 93,639 39,689 Corporate income tax 259,866 129,006 Special mining right Current: 2 Special mining right charge 24,502 6,384 24,502 6,384 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 8,910 7,574 Special mining right 33,412 13,958 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 293,278 142,964 1.
During 2015, the Group clarified the treatment applied in the computation of the 2014 tax provision regarding the deduction of certain mining-related expenditures.
This resulted in an adjustment of US$29.9 million to the 2015 current tax expense with an equal and opposite effect to the deferred tax expense.
The Special Mining Right SMR allows the deduction of payments of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable within the same legal entity.
During the fiscal year ended 31 December 2016, the Group credited US$12.4 million 2015: US$8.2 million of mining concession rights against the SMR.
Total mining concessions rights paid during the year were US$15.4 million 2015: US$17 million and have been recognised in the income statement within cost of sales and exploration expenses.
Mining concessions rights paid in excess of the SMR cannot be credited to SMR in future fiscal periods, and therefore no deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to the excess.
Without regards to credits permitted under the SMR regime, the current special mining right charge would have been US$36.9 million 2015: US$14.6 million.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 191 10.
Income tax expense continued Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax credit charge related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income: Losses on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 355 7,927 Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 15,875 11,856 Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 13,418 3,522 Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans 388 361 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 1,714 15,900 b Reconciliation of the income tax expense at the Groups statutory income rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accounting profit before income tax 718,240 212,354 Tax at the Groups statutory corporate income tax rate 30.0% 215,472 63,706 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,016 2,983 Inflationary uplift of the tax base of assets and liabilities 8,933 2,626 Current income tax over underprovided in previous years 1,303 1,142 1 Exchange rate effect on tax value of assets and liabilities 90,035 77,473 Non-taxable Non-deductible foreign exchange losses 2,157 5,437 Inflationary uplift of tax losses 2,891 3,250 IEPS tax credit note 10 e 24,020 Deferred tax asset not recognised 3,360 3,025 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 10,024 4,187 Other 1,689 1,539 Corporate income tax at the effective tax rate of 36.2% 2015: 60.7% 259,866 129,006 Special mining right 33,412 13,958 Tax at the effective income tax rate of 40.8% 2015: 67.3% 293,278 142,964 1.
Mainly derived from the tax value of property, plant and equipment.
c Movements in deferred income tax liabilities and assets: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net liability 342,195 279,046 Income statement charge arising on corporate income tax 93,639 39,689 Income statement charge arising on special mining right 8,910 7,574 Exchange difference 3 14 Net credit charge related to items directly charged to other comprehensive income 1,714 15,900 Closing net liability 443,027 342,195 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 192 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Income tax expense continued The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2016 and 2015, considering the nature of the related temporary differences, are as follows: Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Related party receivables 199,181 124,719 72,799 23,393 Other receivables 3,725 469 3,256 2,245 Inventories 163,113 121,668 43,868 21,602 Prepayments 1,803 830 10,727 17,551 Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract 134,984 137,396 4,469 44,468 Property, plant and equipment arising from corporate income tax 351,325 330,939 36,358 38,313 Operating liabilities 24,303 19,871 4,083 35,674 Other payables and provisions 44,733 58,643 13,910 12,502 Losses carried forward 66,343 88,593 22,250 37,857 Post-employment benefits 1,685 2,049 364 98 Deductible profit sharing 3,905 3,740 226 312 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 29,100 21,065 8,034 1,965 Available-for-sale financial assets 14,175 756 13,419 4,391 Other 3,581 4,192 14,414 365 Net deferred tax liability related to corporate income tax 375,592 283,672 Deferred tax credit related to corporate income tax 93,639 39,378 Related party receivables arising from special mining right 18,764 15,207 3,557 1,571 Inventories arising from special mining right 8,274 9,616 1,341 2,280 Property plant and equipment arising from special mining right 56,945 52,932 4,012 6,865 Net deferred tax liability 443,027 342,195 Deferred tax credit 102,549 46,952 Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: Deferred tax assets 20,023 30,814 Deferred tax  operations 463,050 373,009 Net deferred tax liability 443,027 342,195 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
On the basis of managements internal forecast, a deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses amounting to US$221.1million 2015: US$295.3 million.
If not unutilised, US$10.7 million will expire within five years and US$210.4 million will expire between six and ten years.
The Group has further tax losses and other similar attributes carried forward of US$29.1 million 2015: US$23.0 million on which no deferred tax is recognised due to insufficient certainty regarding the availability of appropriate future taxable profits.
d Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,949 million 2015: US$1,449 million.
e Corporate Income Tax Impuesto Sobre la Renta or ISR and Special Mining Right SMR The Groups principal operating subsidiaries are Mexican residents for taxation purposes.
The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%.
During 2016 the Mexican Internal Revenue Law granted to taxpayers a credit in respect of an excise tax Special Tax on Production and Services, or IEPS for its acronym in Spanish paid when purchasing diesel used for general machinery and certain mining vehicles.
The credit can be applied against either the Companys own corporate income tax or the income tax withheld from third parties.
The credit is calculated on an entity-by-entity basis and expires one year after the purchase of the diesel.
In the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group applied a credit of US$19.1 in respect of the year and recognised a deferred tax asset of US$4.8 in respect of the IEPS incurred in 2016 and expected to be applied during 2017.
As the IEPS deduction is itself taxable, the deferred tax asset is recognised at 70% of the IEPS carried forward.
The net amount applied by the Group is presented in the reconciliation of the effective tax rate in note 10 b.
The SMR is considered as income tax under IFRS, and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities.
The SMR allows as a credit the payment of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable The 7.5% tax apply to a base of income before interest, annual inflation adjustment, taxes paid on the regular activity, depreciation and amortisation, as defined by the new ISR.
This SMR can be credited against the corporate income tax of the same fiscal year and its payment must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 193 11.
Earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
The Company has no dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
As of 31 December 2016 and 2015, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Earnings: Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 426,986 70,523 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 333,516 51,119 Adjusted profit is profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement adjusted to exclude revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract of US$133.5 million gain US$93.5 million net of tax 2015: US$27.7 million loss US$19.4 million net of tax.
Adjusted earnings per share have been provided in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument.
2016 2015 thousands thousands Number of shares: Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 736,894 736,894 2016 2015 US$ US$ Earnings per share: Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.579 0.096 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 0.453 0.069 12.
Depreciation for the year includes US$346.5 million 2015: US$331.2 million recognised as an expense in the cost of sales in the income statement and US$14.8 million 2015: US$14 million, capitalised as part of construction in progress.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 194 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 5.78% 2015: 5.78%.
Sensitivity analysis As at 31 December 2016 and 2015, the carrying amount of mining assets was fully supported by the higher of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD computation of their recoverable amount.
Value in use and FVLCD was determined based on the net present value of the future estimated cash flows expected to be generated from the continued use of the CGUs.
For both valuation approaches management used price assumptions of US$1,250 ounce and US$18 ounce 2015: US$1,200 ounce and US$18 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
Management considers that the models supporting the carrying amounts are most sensitive to commodity price assumptions and have therefore performed a sensitivity analysis for those CGUs, where a reasonable possible change in prices could lead to impairment.
As at 31 December 2016 the carrying amount of the Herradura mine is US$624.6 million, the Noche Buena mine is US$88.1 million 2015: Herradura mine US$654.2 million and Noche Buena mine US$118.8 million and the San Julin mine US$559.2 which commenced commercial production in the third quarter of 2016.
The following table sets out the approximate expected impairment that would be recognised in 2016 and 2015 at hypothetical decreases in commodity prices: Decrease in commodity prices Herradura Noche Buena San Julin Year ended 31 December Gold Silver US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands 2016 Low sensitivity 10% 10% High sensitivity 15% 20% 109,603 84,310 2015 Low sensitivity 5% 10% High sensitivity 10% 20% 131,625 4,738 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 195 13.
Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 71,442 86,078 Fair value change 44,729 14,636 Ending balance 116,171 71,442 In 2016 no impairment has arisen based on the investment in quoted shares.
During 2015, several investments in quoted shares decreased below the cost paid by the Group therefore an impairment of US$2.9 million was recognised as other expenses in the income statement.
The fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
Silverstream contract On 31 December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with Peoles through which it is entitled to receive the proceeds received by the Peoles Group in respect of the refined silver sold from the Sabinas Mine Sabinas, a base metals mine owned and operated by the Peoles Group, for an upfront payment of US$350 million.
In addition, a per ounce cash payment of $2.00 in years one to five and $5.00 thereafter subject to an inflationary adjustment commencing on 31 December 2013 is payable to Peoles.
The cash payment per ounce for the year ended 31 December 2016 was $5.15 per ounce 2015: $5.10 per ounce.
Under the contract, the Group has the option to receive a net cash settlement from Peoles attributable to the silver produced and sold from Sabinas, to take delivery of an equivalent amount of refined silver or to receive settlement in the form of both cash and silver.
If, by 31 December 2032, the amount of silver produced by Sabinas is less than 60 million ounces, a further payment is due from Peoles of US$1 per ounce of shortfall.
The Silverstream contract represents a derivative financial instrument which has been recorded at fair value and classified within noncurrent and current assets as appropriate.
Changes in the contracts fair value, other than those represented by the realisation of the asset through the receipt of either cash or refined silver, are charged or credited to the income statement.
In the year ended 31 December 2016 total proceeds received in cash were US$47.5 million 2015: US$39.4 million of which, US$2.8 million was in respect of proceeds receivable as at 31 December 2015 2014: US$6.9 million.
Cash received in respect of the year of US$44.8 million 2015: US$32.5 million corresponds to 3.8 million ounces of payable silver 2015: 3.6 million ounces.
As at 31 December 2016, a further US$5.9 million 2015: US$2.8 million of cash corresponding to 538,756 ounces of silver is due 2015: 317,521 ounces.
The US$133.5 million unrealised gain recorded in the income statement 2015: US$27.7 million gain resulted from the updating of assumptions used to value the Silverstream contract.
The most significant of these were the increase in the Sabinas mine silver reserves and resources, the unwinding of the discount and the difference between the payments already received in 2016 and payments estimated in the valuation model as of 31 December 2015.
A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance is shown below: 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 384,771 392,276 Cash received in respect of the year 44,796 32,456 Cash receivable 5,974 2,769 Remeasurement gains recognised in profit and loss 133,528 27,720 Balance at 31 December 467,529 384,771 Less Current portion 28,718 26,607 Non-current portion 438,811 358,164 See note 30 for further information on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 31 for further information relating to market and credit risks associated with the Silverstream asset.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 196 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15.
Inventories As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Finished goods 5,736 1,711 2 Work in progress 189,047 251,900 3 Ore stockpile 18,253 Operating materials and spare parts 70,348 73,104 283,384 326,715 4 Accumulated write-down of work in progress inventory 2,269 22,578 Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories 4,265 3,562 Balance as 31 December at lower of cost and net realisable value 276,850 300,575 Less Current portion 187,499 224,200 5 Non-current portion 89,351 76,375 1.
Finished goods include metals contained in concentrates and dor bars, and concentrates on hand or in transit to a smelter or refinery.
Work in progress includes metals contained in ores on leaching pads.
Ore stockpile includes ore mineral obtained during the development phase at San Julin.
Corresponds to ore inventory of the Soledad-Dipolos mine resulting from net realisable value calculations 31 December 2015: Corresponds to ore inventory at Noche Buena and Soledad-Dipolos.
The non-current inventories are expected to be processed more than 12 months from the reporting date.
Concentrates are a product containing sulphides with variable content of precious and base metals and are sold to smelters and or refineries.
Dor is an alloy containing a variable mixture of gold and silver that is delivered in bar form to refineries.
This content once processed by the smelter and refinery is sold to customers in the form of refined products.
The amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the year was US$1,042.4 million 2015: US$1,001.0 million.
The adjustment to the net realisable value allowance against work-in-progress inventory decreased US$20.3 million during the year 2015: US$5.0 million increase.
The adjustment to the allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventory recognised as an expense was US$0.7 million 2015: US$0.9 million.
Trade and other receivables Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Trade and other receivables from related parties note 27 189,619 115,805 Value Added Tax receivable 70,426 99,948 Advances and other receivable from contractors 14,651 13,641 Other receivables from related parties note 27 5,973 2,769 Loans granted to contractors 1,401 2,595 Other receivables arising on the sale of fixed assets 386 759 Other receivables 4,693 2,775 287,149 238,292 Provision for impairment of other receivables 471 300 Trade and other receivables classified as current assets 286,678 237,992 Other receivables classified as non-current assets: Loans granted to contractors 990 2,289 990 2,289 287,668 240,281 1.
Trade receivables from related parties includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$ 2.8 million as at 31December 2016 2015: US$ 0.5 million.
Trade receivables are shown net of any corresponding advances, are non-interest bearing and generally have payment terms of 46 to 60 days.
Loans granted to contractors bear interest of between LIBOR plus 1.5% to LIBOR plus 3% and mature over two years.
The total receivables denominated in US$ were US$206.8 million 2015: US$127 million, and in pesos US$80.9 million 2015: US$113.3 million.
As of 31 December for each year presented, with the exception of other receivables in the table above, all trade and other receivables were neither past due nor impaired.
The amount past due and considered as impaired as of 31 December 2016 is US$0.5 million 2015: US$0.3 million.
In determining the recoverability of receivables, the Group performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and thecredit worthiness of the counterparty, see note 31 b. FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 197 17.
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments The Group considers cash and cash equivalents and short term investments when planning its operations and in order to achieve its treasury objectives.
As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 2,592 4,104 Short-term deposits 709,362 377,316 Cash and cash equivalents 711,954 381,420 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value.
As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Short-term investments 200,000 118,718 Short-term investments are made for fixed periods no longer than four months and earn interest at fixed rates without an option for early withdrawal.
As at 31 December 2016 short-term investments are held in fixed-term bank deposits of US$200,000 31 December 2015: US$118,718.
Equity Share capital and share premium Authorised share capital of the Company is as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 Class of share Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary Shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of 1.00 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 Issued share capital of the Company is as follows: Ordinary Shares Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares Number US$ Number At 1 January 2015 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2015 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2016 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 As at 31 December 2016 and 2015, all issued shares with a par value of US$0.50 each are fully paid.
The rights and obligations attached to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares ata price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferable.
Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Capital reserve The capital reserve arose as a consequence of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation as a result of using the pooling of interest method.
Hedging reserve This reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of tax.
When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or the loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement or the value of other assets.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 198 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Equity continued Available-for-sale financial assets reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of entities with a functional currency different to that of the presentational currency of the Group.
Retained earnings accumulated losses This reserve records the accumulated results of the Group, less any distributions and dividends paid.
Dividends declared and paid The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2016 1 Final dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year 3.3 24,686 2 Interim dividend for 2016 declared and paid during the year 8.6 63,373 11.9 88,059 Year ended 31 December 2015 3 Final dividend for 2014 declared and paid during the year 3.0 22,107 4 Interim dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year 2.1 15,475 5.1 37,582 1.
This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 May 2016 and paid on 9 May 2016.
This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2016 and paid on 9 September 2016.
This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and paid on 22 May 2015.
This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 August 2015 and paid on 10 September 2015.
Interest-bearing loans Senior Notes On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of US$800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 the notes.
Movements in the year in the debt recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 797,032 796,160 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 1 Interest paid 46,267 46,267 Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 995 872 Closing balance 798,027 797,032 1.
Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November.
The Group has the following restrictions derived from the issuance of the Senior notes the Notes : Change of control: Should the rating of the Senior Notes be downgraded as a result of a change of control defined as the sale or transfer of 35% or more of the common shares: the transfer of all or substantially all the assets of the Group: starting a dissolution or liquidation process: or the loss of the majority in the Board of Directors the Group is obligated to repurchase the notes at an equivalent price of 101% of their nominal value plus the interest earned at the repurchase date, if requested to do so by any creditor.
Pledge on assets: The Group shall not pledge or allow a pledge on any property that may have a material impact on business performance key assets.
Nevertheless, the Group may pledge the aforementioned properties provided that the repayment of the Notes keeps the same level of priority as the pledge on those assets.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 199 21.
Provision for mine closure cost The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the estimated date of depletionof mine deposits.
The discount rate used in the calculation of the provision as at 31 December 2016 is in a range of 6.61% to 7.74% 2015: range of 4.65% to 7.13%.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning, dismantling, reclamation alternatives, timing and the discount, foreign exchange and inflation rates applied.
Mexican regulations regarding the decommissioning and rehabilitation of mines are limited and less developed in comparison to regulations in many other jurisdictions.
It is the Groups intention to rehabilitate the mines beyond the requirements of Mexican law, and estimated costs reflect this level of expense.
The Group intends to fully rehabilitate the affected areas at the end of the life of the mines.
The provision is expected to become payable at the end of the production life of each mine, based on the reserves and resources, which ranges from 3 to 27 years from 31 December 2016 4 to 21 years from 31 December 2015.
As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 195,476 153,802 Increase to existing provision 21,745 48,680 Effect of changes in discount rate 13,570 7,341 Unwinding of discount 10,476 8,586 Payments 472 Foreign exchange 21,056 22,933 Closing balance 149,109 195,476 22.
Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The Group has a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit plan.
The defined contribution plan was established as from 1 July 2007 and consists of periodic contributions made by each non-unionised worker and contributions made by the Group to the fund matching workers contributions, capped at 8% of the employees annual salary.
The defined benefit plan provides pension benefits based on each workers earnings and years of services provided by personnel hired through 30 June 2007 as well as statutory seniority premiums for both unionised and non-unionised workers.
The overall investment policy and strategy for the Groups defined benefit plan is guided by the objective of achieving an investment return which, together with contributions, ensures that there will be sufficient assets to pay pension benefits and statutory seniority premiums for non-unionised workers as they fall due while also mitigating the various risks of the plan.
However, the portion of the plan related to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers is not funded.
The investment strategies for the plan are generally managed under local laws and regulations.
The actual asset allocation is determined by current and expected economic and market conditions and in consideration of specific asset class risk in the risk profile.
Within this framework, the Group ensures that the trustees consider how the asset investment strategy correlates with the maturity profile of the plan liabilities and the respective potential impact on the funded status of the plan, including potential short-term liquidity requirements.
Death and disability benefits are covered through insurance policies.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 200 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans continued The following tables provide information relating to changes in the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets: Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains losses in OCI US$ thousands Return on plan assets Actuarial Actuarial excluding changes changes Defined amounts arising from arising from benefit Balance at Sub-total included changes in changes in Sub-total increase due Balance at 1 January Net Foreign recognised Benefits in net demographic financial Experience Foreign included Contributions to personnel 31 December 2016 Service cost interest exchange in the year paid interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange in OCI by employer transfer 2016 Defined benefit obligation 32,165 649 1,803 5,573 3,121 816 744 2,636 1,103 2,995 144 25,377 Fair value of plan assets 17,631 927 3,003 2,076 432 552 552 1,570 141 16,282 Net benefit liability 14,534 649 876 2,570 1,045 384 552 744 2,636 1,103 2,443 1,570 3 9,095 Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains losses in OCI US$ thousands Return on plan assets Actuarial Actuarial excluding changes changes Defined amounts arising from arising from benefit Balance at Sub-total included changes in changes in Sub-total increase due Balance at 1 January Net Foreign recognised Benefits in net demographic financial Experience Foreign included Contributions to personnel 31 December 2015 Service cost interest exchange in the year paid interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange in OCI by employer transfer 2015 Defined benefit obligation 33,664 1,024 1,981 5,085 2,080 1,031 577 1,160 170 1,567 45 32,165 Fair value of plan assets 19,826 1,121 2,954 1,833 758 706 706 1,065 37 17,631 Net benefit liability 13,838 1,024 860 2,131 247 273 706 577 1,160 170 2,273 1,065 8 14,534 Of the total defined benefit obligation, US$6.7 million 2015: US$8.6 million relates to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers which are not funded.
The expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period are nil.
The principal assumptions used in determining pension and other post-employment benefit obligations for the Groups plans are shownbelow: As at 31 December 2016 2015 % % Discount rate 7.52 6.79 Future salary increases NCPI 5.0 5.0 The mortality assumptions are that for current and future pensioners, men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 22.3 and 25.5 years respectively 2015: 20.2 years for men and 23.4 for women.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 12.1 years 2015: 11.7 years.
The fair values of the plan assets were as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Government debt 746 1,084 State-owned companies 3,914 3,017 Mutual funds fixed rates 11,622 13,530 16,282 17,631 The pension plan has not invested in any of the Groups own financial instruments nor in properties or assets used by the Group.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 201 22.
Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans continued A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 December 2016 is as shown below: Life expectancy Assumptions Discount rate Future salary increases NCPI of pensioners 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 1 Sensitivity Level Increase Decrease increase decrease Increase Decrease Increase to the net defined benefit obligation US$ thousands 1,352 1,491 552 239 186 The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on net defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
The pension plan is not sensitive to future changes in salaries other than in respect of inflation.
Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade payables 68,216 53,303 Other payables to related parties note 27 3,173 4,137 Accrued expenses 16,797 15,988 Other taxes and contributions 33,447 16,202 121,633 89,630 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractor services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 31.
Commitments A summary of capital expenditure commitments by operating mine is as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 32,933 29,131 Herradura 29,544 13,897 Noche Buena 3,677 285 Cinega 6,454 7,685 Fresnillo 12,079 6,181 San Julin 39,895 86,301 1 Other 20,133 2,029 144,715 145,509 1.
Other includes commitments from Minera Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. and Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. 2015: Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. 25.
Operating leases a Operating leases as lessor Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 1,095 1,984 After one year but not more than five years 1,875 487 2,970 2,471 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 202 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Operating leases continued b Operating leases as lessee The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment.
These leases have renewal terms at the option of the lessee with future lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
The Group has put in place several arrangements to finance mine equipment through loans and the sale of mine equipment to contractors.
In both cases, contractors are obligated to use these assets in rendering services to the Group as part of the mining work contract, during the term of financing or credit, which ranges from two to six years.
The Group considers that the related mining work contracts contain embedded operating leases.
The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 6,790 2,720 After one year but not more than five years 3,399 3,115 10,189 5,835 As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 4,142 8,008 26.
Contingencies As of 31 December 2016, the Group has the following contingencies: The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing ofcorporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties andinterest.
Under certain circumstances, the reviews may cover longer periods.
In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
During 2015 the Mexican tax authorities SAT commenced a tax audit at Minera Penmont relating to the fiscal years 2012 and 2013.
The Group considers that it has provided all documentation required to demonstrate that all non-taxable income and tax deductions taken over these years are appropriate.
SAT is currently evaluating the information provided by the Company.
The Company has formally filed a writ before the Mexican Taxpayers Ombudsman PRODECON per its acronym in Spanish in order to request a conclusive agreement in this matter.
On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, itis held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to: i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission, and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-Group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta o CUFIN account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
On 30 November 2012, the Mexican government enacted a new federal labour law.
During 2014 management implemented certain actions as a part of an ongoing process in order to manage the exposure resulting from the issuance of the new labour law including any potential impacts on the operations and financial position of the Group, however management does not expect any potential contingency or significant effect on the Groups financial statements as at 31 December 2016 and going forward.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 203 26.
Contingencies continued In regard to the ejido El Bajo matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009 five members of the El Bajo agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont Penmont, submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court Tribunal Unitario Agrario of Hermosillo, Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land.
The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of the Soledad-Dipolos mine are located.
The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land.
The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The Agrarian Magistrate noted in 2013 that certain remediation activities were necessary and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency SEMARNAT in this respect.
The Agrarian Magistrate further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmonts occupation.
In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order was excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appeared not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits.
In December 2016, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued a subsequent procedural order in which the Court recognised that Penmont complied with the agrarian ruling by having returned the land in dispute and, furthermore, that remediation activities are to be conducted in accordance with Federal environmental guidelines and regulations, as supervised by the competent Federal authorities.
Remediation activities in this respect are pending as the agrarian members have not yet permitted Penmont physical access to the lands.
Penmont has already presented a conceptual mine closure and remediation plan before the Unitarian Agrarian Court in respect of the approximately 300 hectares where Penmont conducted mining activities.
The agrarian community Ejido El Bajo has appealed this procedural order from December 2016 and the final result of the appeal ispending.
In connection with the foregoing matters, and as previously reported by the Company in prior years, members of the El Bajo agrarian community presented a separate claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court, alleging US$65 million in damages as well as requesting the cancellation of Penmonts mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajo lands.
In April 2016, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued a final and definitive ruling on the matter rejecting the claim, which is consistent with the Companys view, as previously reported, that this lawsuit had no merit.
In addition, and as also previously reported by the Company, claimants in the El Bajo matter presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above.
Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont.
As previously reported, the Unitarian Agrarian Court issued rulings declaring such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmonts occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area.
Given that Penmont has not conducted significant mining operations or has specific geological interest in these land parcels, any contingency relating to such land parcels is not considered material by the Company.
The case relating to the claims over these land parcels remains subject to finalisation.
Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajo matter.
There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings.
Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party transactions during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 and balances as at 31 December 2016 and 2015.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party, as well as those who have a minority participation in Group companies and key management personnel of the Group.
a Related party balances Accounts receivable Accounts payable As at 31 December As at 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade: Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 189,584 115,786 301 130 Other: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 5,974 2,769 Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 1,612 366 Servicios Especializados Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 36 1,804 Fuerza Elica del Istmo S. A. fide C. V. 916 Other 34 19 1,224 921 Sub-total 195,592 118,574 3,173 4,137 Less-current portion 195,592 118,574 3,173 4,137 Non-current portion Related party accounts receivable and payable will be settled in cash.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 204 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Related party balances and transactions continued Other balances with related parties: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silverstream contract: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 467,529 384,771 The Silverstream contract can be settled in either silver or cash.
Details of the Silverstream contract are provided in note 14. b Principal transactions with affiliates, including Industrias Peoles S. A.
B fide C. V. the Companys Parent, are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: 1 Sales: Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 1,905,503 1,458,413 Other income 2,381 982 Total income 1,907,884 1,459,395 1.
Figures do not include hedging gains as the derivative transactions are not undertaken with related parties.
Figures are net of the adjustment for treatment and refining charges of US$141.1 million 2015: US$142.48 million and include sales credited to development projects of US$1.6 million 2015: US$17.9 million.
Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: 2 Administrative services : 3 Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 24,309 23,655 Servicios Especializados Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 16,015 17,701 40,324 41,356 Energy: Termoelectrica Peoles, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 16,011 20,332 Fuerza Elica del Istmo S. A. fide C. V. 1,794 6,713 17,805 27,045 Operating materials and spare parts: Wideco Inc 5,254 6,368 Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 3,140 3,320 8,394 9,688 Equipment repair and administrative services: Serviminas, S. A. fide C. V. 8,268 3,860 Property, plant and equipment: Equipos Industriales Naica, S. A. fide C. V. 1,065 Insurance premiums: Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
Includes US$4.7 million 2015: US$4.1 million corresponding to expenses reimbursed.
Includes US$9.5 million 2015: US$8.2 million relating to engineering costs that were capitalised.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 205 27.
Related party balances and transactions continued c Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee who receive remuneration.
Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Salaries and bonuses 2,416 3,311 Post-employment benefits 208 257 Other benefits 345 379 Total compensation paid in respect of key management personnel 2,969 3,947 Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement 4,237 4,859 This compensation includes amounts paid to directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement represents benefits accrued at the time the benefits were frozen.
There are no further benefits accruing under the defined benefit scheme in respect of current services.
Auditors remuneration Fees due by the Group to its auditor during the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 2015 Class of services US$ thousands US$ thousands Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 1,149 1,274 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services as follows: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 222 338 Audit-related assurance services 350 328 Tax compliance services 21 24 Tax advisory services 16 Other assurance services Total 1,742 1,980 29.
Notes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 2016 2015 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 424,962 69,390 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation and amortisation 5 346,502 331,209 Employee profit sharing 7 15,145 13,170 Deferred income tax 10 102,549 47,263 Current income tax expense 10 190,729 95,701 Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 8 1,103 3,757 Other losses 981 3,353 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 3,005 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 8 2,896 Net finance costs 33,019 41,913 Foreign exchange gain loss 539 18,991 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 944 314 Non-cash movement on derivatives 40,345 62,288 Changes in fair value of Silverstream 14 133,528 27,720 Working capital adjustments Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 39,526 58,219 Decrease in prepayments and other assets 113 891 Decrease in inventories 23,725 5,037 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 5,133 12,820 Cash generated from operations 1,012,774 588,648 Income tax paid 102,255 34,517 Employee profit sharing paid 12,561 11,237 Net cash from operating activities 897,958 542,894 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 206 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments a Fair value category As at 31 December 2016 US$ thousands Available-forAt fair value At fair value sale investments through OCI through profit at fair value Loans and cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedges 1 Trade and other receivables note 16 213,750 Available-for-sale financial assets note 13 116,171 Silverstream contract note 14 467,529 Derivative financial instruments note 30 145 23,005 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit At amortised cash flow Financial liabilities: or loss Cost hedges Interest-bearing loans note 20 798,027 Trade and other payables note 23 70,442 1 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts note 4 2,750 Derivative financial instruments note 30 646 1.
Trade and other receivables and embedded derivative within sales contracts are presented net in Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
As at 31 December 2015 US$ thousands Available-forAt fair value At fair value sale investments through OCI through profit at fair value Loans and cash flow Financial assets: or loss through OCI receivables hedges 1 Trade and other receivables note 16 127,224 Available-for-sale financial assets note 13 71,442 Silverstream contract note 14 384,771 Derivative financial instruments note 30 1 117,074 At fair value At fair value through OCI through profit or At amortised cash flow Financial liabilities: loss Cost hedges Interest-bearing loans note 20 797,032 Trade and other payables note 23 97,440 1 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts note 4 532 Derivative financial instruments note 30 1,427 1.
b Fair value measurement The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets 116,171 71,442 116,171 71,442 Silverstream contract note 14 467,529 384,771 467,529 384,771 Derivative financial instruments 23,150 117,075 23,150 117,075 Financial liabilities: 1 Interest-bearing loans note 20 798,027 797,032 840,904 805,352 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 2,750 532 2,750 532 Derivative financial instruments 646 1,427 646 1,427 1.
Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 207 30.
Financial instruments continued The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2016 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in active Significant Significant markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts 23,005 23,005 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 145 145 Silverstream contract 467,529 467,529 23,150 467,529 490,679 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 116,171 116,171 116,171 23,150 467,529 606,850 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 2,750 2,750 Options commodity contracts 66 66 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 580 580 646 2,750 3,396 As of 31 December 2015 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts 116,995 116,995 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 80 80 Silverstream contract 384,771 384,771 117,075 384,771 501,846 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 71,442 71,442 71,442 117,075 384,771 573,288 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 532 532 Options commodity contracts Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 1,427 1,427 1,427 532 1,959 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
A reconciliation of the opening balance to the closing balance for Level 3 financial instruments other than Silverstream which is disclosed in note 14 is shown below: 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 532 2,911 Changes in fair value 1,718 11,511 Realised embedded derivatives during the year 500 13,890 Balance at 31 December 2,750 532 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 208 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial instruments continued The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The foreign currency forward Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies.
The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency.
Option commodity contracts The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The option commodity Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities.
The option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity.
Silverstream contract The fair value of the Silverstream contract is determined using a valuation model including unobservable inputs Level 3.
This derivative has a term of over 20 years and the valuation model utilises a number of inputs that are not based on observable market data due to the nature of these inputs and or the duration of the contract.
Inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are the volume ofsilver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine over the contract life, the future price of silver, future foreign exchange rates between the Mexican peso and US dollar, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
The estimate of the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine requires estimates of the recoverable silver reserves and resources, the related production profile based on the Sabinas mine plan and the expected recovery of silver from ore mined.
The estimation of these inputs is subject to a range of operating assumptions and may change over time.
Estimates of reserves and resources are updated annually by Peoles, the operator and sole interest holder in the Sabinas mine and provided to the Company.
The production profile and estimated payable silver that will be recovered from ore mined is based on the latest plan and estimates, also provided to the Company by Peoles.
The inputs assume no interruption in production over the life of the Silverstream contract and production levels which are consistent with those achieved in recent years.
Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs described above, and determines their impact on the total fair value.
The significant unobservable inputs are not interrelated.
The fair value of the Silverstream is not significantly sensitive to a reasonable change in future exchange rates, however, it is to a reasonable change in future silver price, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
For further information relating to the Silverstream contract see note14.
The sensitivity of the valuation to the inputs relating to market risks, being the price of silver, foreign exchange rates, inflation and the discount rate isdisclosed in note 31.
Quoted investments: Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets Level 1.
Interest-bearing loans Fair value of the Groups interest-bearing loan, is derived from quoted market prices in active markets Level 1.
Embedded derivatives within sales contracts: Sales of concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are provisionally priced and revenue is initially recognised using this provisional price and the Groups best estimate of the contained metal.
Revenue is subject to final price and metal content adjustments subsequent to the date of delivery see note 2 p. This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and is separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal content is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in therelevant sales contract.
The selling price of metals can be reliably measured as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges but the estimated metal content is a non-observable input to this valuation Level 3.
At 31 December 2016 the fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contracts was US$ 2.7 million 2015: US$ 0.5 million.
The revaluation effects of embedded derivatives arising from these sales contracts are recorded as an adjustment to revenues.
c Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with costs incurred inMexican pesos and other currencies.
The Group also enters into option contracts to manage its exposure to commodity price risk as described in note 2 s. FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 209 30.
Financial instruments continued The following tables summarise the fair value of derivative financial instruments held as of 31 December 2016 and 2015.
As at 31 December 2016 2015 Financial assets US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 145 1 Swedish krona 1 1 Option contracts: US dollar 78 Commodity contracts 1 Option contracts: Gold 23,005 113,000 Lead 1,060 Zinc 2,935 Total derivative related assets 23,150 117,075 Less Current portion 6,618 19,602 2 Non-current portion 16,532 97,473 As at 31 December 2016 2015 Financial liabilities US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 570 Canadian dollar 10 1 Option contracts: US dollar 1,427 Commodity contracts 1 Option contracts: Gold 16 Lead 2 Zinc 48 Total derivative related liabilities 646 1,427 Less Current portion 630 1,427 2 Non-current portion 16 1.
Option contracts operate as zero cost collars.
Non-current portion corresponds to Gold option contracts that mature in a period over one year from the reporting date until 30 December 2019.
The following table summarises the movements in deferred gains or losses on foreign exchange and price commodity derivative instruments qualifying for hedge accounting, net of tax effects, recorded in other comprehensive income for the year: As at 31 December 2016 2015 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 36,214 9,946 Gains recycled to revenue during the year 1,586 2,167 Losses recycled to cost of sales during the year 2,770 28,589 Unrealised losses gains before tax arising during the year 52,918 39,521 Deferred tax effect recorded in other comprehensive income during the year 15,520 19,783 Ending balance 36,214 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 210 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Financial risk management Overview The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale financial assets, interest-bearing loans andtradepayables.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Market risk, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes forassessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
a Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group has financial instruments that are denominated in Mexican peso, euro and Swedish krona which are exposed to foreign currency risk.
Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar include the purchase of services, fixed assets, spare parts andthe payment of dividends.
As a result, the Group has financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso.
In order to manage the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk on expenditure denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, the Group has entered into certain forward and option derivative contracts with maturity dates from 2017 see note 30 for additional detail.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods for the purposes of calculating thesensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments.
Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Strengthening increase increase weakening decrease decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2016 15% 78 10% 67 2015 10% 4,235 7,809 10% 5,192 2,213 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 211 31.
Financial risk management continued The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods.
There is no impact on the Groups equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 10% 63 10% 94 2015 5% 213 10% 78 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the euro on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Strengthening increase increase weakening decrease decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2016 5% 459 10% 1,024 2015 10% 10% Foreign currency risk Silverstream Future foreign exchange rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of theSilverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in the Mexican peso as compared to the US dollar, with all other inputs to theSilverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods inthe valuation model.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2016 15% 1,436 10% 1,223 2015 10% 1,622 10% 1,982 Commodity risk The Group has exposure to changes in metals prices specifically silver, gold, lead and zinc which have a significant effect on the Groups results.
These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles.
The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge against an element of gold price.
The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in gold andsilver prices, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity shown in the table below relates to changes in fair value of commodity derivatives financial instruments contracts and embedded derivatives in sales.
Increase decrease in commodity prices Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands US$ thousands 2016 10% 25% 40% 40% 28,516 15% 20% 30% 15% 36,031 120,715 2015 15% 20% 25% 20% 51,326 50,764 10% 15% 25% 15% 52,915 136,469 Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 212 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Financial risk management continued Commodity price risk Silverstream Future silver price is one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in future silver prices, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
Itisassumed that the same percentage change in silver price is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
There is no impact on theGroups equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit before tax: Increase increase decrease in decrease Year ended 31 December silver price US$ thousands 2016 25% 157,406 20% 125,925 2015 20% 104,659 15% 78,494 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally relating to the cash balances and the Silverstream contract held at the balance sheet date.
Interestbearing loans are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value but not its carrying amount.
Therefore, interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are excluded from the table below.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date.
There is no impact on the Groups equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2016 65 5,943 20 1,829 2015 50 2,525 10 505 The sensitivity shown in the table above primarily relates to the full year of interest on cash balances held as at the year end.
Interest rate risk Silverstream Future interest rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in interest rate is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2016 65 35,908 20 12,051 2015 50 17,853 10 3,729 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 213 31.
Financial risk management continued Inflation rate risk Inflation rate risk-Silverstream Future inflation rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract to a reasonably possible change in the inflation rate, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in inflation is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
There is no impact on the Groups equity, other than theequivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in inflation rate US$ thousands 2016 100 190 100 188 2015 100 389 100 382 Equity price risk The Group has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale financial assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Groups profit before tax and equity: Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Increase increase increase decrease decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in equity price US$ thousands US$ thousands 2016 100% 116,171 50% 58,086 2015 50% 35,721 30% 5,135 16,297 b Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, the Silverstream contract  financial assets.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties failure to honour their obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counter party.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties with what the Group considers to have an appropriate credit rating.
As disclosed in note 27, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties.
At each balance sheet date, the Groups financial assets were neither impaired nor past due, other than Other receivables asdisclosed in note 16.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses from foreign currency hedging contracts.
The Companys foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Group has a high concentration of trade receivables with one counterparty Met-Mex Peoles, the Groups primary customer throughout 2016 and2015.
A further concentration of credit risk arises from the Silverstream contract.
Both Met-Mex and the counterparty to the Silverstream contract are subsidiaries in the Peoles group which currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and is considered by management to be ofappropriate credit rating.
The Groups surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. which manages cash and cash equivalents, including short-term investments investing inanumber of financial institutions.
Accordingly, on an ongoing basis the Group deposits surplus funds with a range of financial institutions, depending on market conditions.
In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Group only deposits surplus funds with financial institutions with a credit rating of MX-1 Moodys and mxA-1 Standard and Poors and above.
As at 31December 2016, the Group had concentrations of credit risk as 24% of surplus funds were deposited with one financial institution of which 47% was held in short-term Mexican government paper.
The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes.
See note 13 for the maximum credit exposure to available-for-sale financial assets, note 17 for short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents and note 27 for related party balances with Met-Mex.
The maximum credit exposure with relation to the Silverstream contract is the value of the derivative as at 31December 2016, being US$467.5 million 2015: US$384.8 million.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 214 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Financial risk management continued c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Interest-bearing loans note 20 46,267 92,534 92,534 892,534 1,123,869 Trade and other payables 71,389 71,389 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 630 16 646 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts liability 2,750 2,750 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Interest-bearing loans note 20 46,267 92,534 92,534 938,801 1,170,137 Trade and other payables 57,440 57,440 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 342,108 730,303 317,359 1,389,770 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts liability 532 532 The payments disclosed for financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows.
However, those amounts maybe settled gross or net.
The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Inflows 10,932 10,932 Outflows 11,229 11,229 Net 297 297 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2015 Inflows 347,301 746,924 319,165 1,413,390 Outflows 342,108 730,303 317,359 1,389,770 Net 5,193 16,621 1,806 23,620 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Group expects to be exercised during 2017 as at 31 December 2016 and from 2016 to 2019 as at 31 December 2015, either by the Group or counterparty.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support itsbusiness and maximise shareholder value.
Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, including loans from related parties, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains or losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-for-sale financial assets.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Group management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The Groups dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows, including cash flows from the Silverstream.
