Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information G4S plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities its subsidiaries controlled by the Company collectively comprising the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures made up to 31 December each year.
The Group operates throughout the world and in a wide range of functional currencies, the most significant being the euro, the US dollar and sterling.
The Groups financial statements are presented in sterling, as the Groups primary listing is in the UK.
The address of the registered office is given on page 187.
During the year there has been a significant devaluation in the value of sterling following the decision for the UK to exit the European Union.
The impact of translating 2015 results at 2016 exchange rates would have been a 7% increase in reported revenue and an 8% increase in reported PBITA.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 177 to 185.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared under the going concern basis and using the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Judgments made by the directors in the application of those accounting policies which have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment, are discussed in note 4.
The Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2015 has been re-presented to show the impact of adopting the new IFRS Interpretation Committee IFRIC agenda decision in April 2016 regarding cash pooling.
This resulted in an increase to cash and cash equivalents and an increase to overdrafts of 56m as at 31 December 2015 and 300m as at 1 January 2015.
The Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2015 has additionally been re-presented to show the impact of the inclusion of cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts, of 94m and 25m respectively 1 January 2015: 80m and 15m respectively, in respect of customer cash processing see note 26 on page 139.
As a consequence of each of the above, cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2015 have increased from 443m to 593m 1 January 2015: increased from 422m to 802m, and overdrafts from 41m to 122m 1 January 2015: 20m to 335m.
b Presentation of the Consolidated income statement In order to provide further clarity in the Groups Consolidated income statement and segmental analysis, the Group separately discloses specific items, restructuring costs, profits or losses on disposal closure of subsidiaries, acquisition-related amortisation and expenses and goodwill impairment.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to the Board and assists in providing a more meaningful analysis of the Groups results.
The directors believe that presentation of the Groups results in this way aids the understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Specific items The Groups Consolidated income statement and segmental analysis note separately identify results before specific items.
Specific items are those that in managements judgment need to be disclosed separately in arriving at operating profit by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Up until 31 December 2015, specific items also included the results of updating estimates and judgments for certain assets and liabilities related to the balance sheet review which commenced in 2013 and was completed in 2015.
The associated tax impact of specific items is recorded within the tax charge.
In determining whether an event or transaction is specific, management considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
Contract losses included within specific items arise from the recognition of material future losses, net of the release of any surplus provisions.
In general, provisions recognised for future losses are charged to the Consolidated income statement within PBITA.
Where onerous contract provisions are material by virtue of their size, they are separately charged within specific items.
Such losses are distinct from in-year losses, which are utilised against provisions for onerous contract losses.
Specific items may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
Specific items for the current and prior year are described in note 8.
Other separately disclosed items restructuring costs Restructuring costs that are separately disclosed reflect the multi-year efficiency programme which is being carried out by the Group.
This programme is of a strategic nature and, as such, is monitored and approved by the Groups Executive Committee.
During 2015 and 2016 activities under the programme have focused primarily on transforming the operating model in the regions of UK & Ireland and Europe.
Restructuring costs that are incurred in the normal course of business are recorded within PBITA.
114 114 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report c Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Group has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the activities that affect the Groups returns and exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
This can be determined either by the Groups ownership percentage, or by the terms of any shareholder agreement.
In the case of certain investments detailed analysis of the different contracts in place is required, together with a level of judgment, to ascertain whether there is control under the definition of IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements see note 4.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The cost of acquisition is measured as the acquisition date fair value of the assets transferred as consideration to the vendor and does not include transaction costs.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the Consolidated income statement in the year of acquisition.
The cost of acquisition includes the present value of deferred and contingent consideration payable, including that in respect of put options held by non-controlling shareholders, as estimated at the date of acquisition.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2010 subsequent changes to the present value of the estimate of contingent consideration and any difference upon final settlement of such a liability are recognised as adjustments to the cost of acquisition.
For acquisitions after 1 January 2010 such changes are recognised in the Consolidated income statement with respect to contingent consideration and in other comprehensive income with respect to put options.
Non-controlling interests are stated at their proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Profits and losses are applied in the proportion of their respective ownership to the interest of the parent and to the non-controlling interest.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated income statement from the effective date of control and up to the effective date of disposal, respectively.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control have the rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in the Groups consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are carried in the Consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
The Groups share of post-tax profits or losses is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where a Group company transacts with a joint venture of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
d Foreign currencies The financial statements of each of the Groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities which are denominated in other currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value which are denominated in other currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost denominated in other currencies are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the Consolidated income statement for the period.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on their acquisition, are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income, together with exchange differences arising on monetary items that are in substance a part of the Groups net investment in foreign operations, and on borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments where and to the extent that the hedges are deemed to be effective.
On disposal, translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated income statement in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
e Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group only holds or issues derivative financial instruments to manage the Groups exposure to financial risk, not for trading purposes.
Such financial risk includes the interest-rate risk on the Groups variable-rate borrowings, the fair-value risk on the Groups fixed-rate borrowings, commodity risk in relation to its diesel consumption and foreign-exchange risk on transactions, on the translation of the Groups results and on the translation of the Groups net assets measured in foreign currencies.
The Group manages these risks through a range of derivative financial instruments, including interest-rate swaps, fixed-rate agreements, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward foreign-exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 115 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued e Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the Consolidated statement of financial position at fair value as financial assets or financial liabilities.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement, unless the derivatives qualify for hedge accounting where the treatment of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged as described below: Fair-value hedges The change in the fair value of both the hedging instrument and the related portion of the hedged item is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
Cash-flow and net-investment hedges The change in the fair value of the portion of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity and subsequently recycled to the Consolidated income statement when the hedged cash flow or hedged net investment impacts the Consolidated income statement.
The ineffective portion of the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
f Intangible assets Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for by the application of the acquisition method.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or joint venture.
No goodwill arises on the acquisition of an additional interest from a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary as this is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Goodwill is stated at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses, and is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.
On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Acquisition-related intangible assets Intangible assets on acquisitions that are either separable or arising from contractual rights are recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Such acquisition-related intangible assets include trademarks, technology, customer contracts and customer relationships.
The fair value of acquisition-related intangible assets is determined by reference to market prices of similar assets, where such information is available, or by the use of appropriate valuation techniques, including the royalty relief method and the excess earnings method.
Acquisition-related intangible assets are amortised by equal annual instalments over their expected economic life.
The directors review acquisition-related intangible assets on an on-going basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Trademarks and technology up to a maximum of five years Customer contracts and customer relationships up to a maximum of ten years Other intangible assets Development expenditure represents expenditure incurred in establishing new services and products of the Group.
Such expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only if the following can be demonstrated: the expenditure creates an identifiable asset, its cost can be measured reliably, it is probable that it will generate future economic benefits, it is technically and commercially feasible, and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
In all other instances, the cost of such expenditure is taken directly to the Consolidated income statement.
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over the period during which the expenditure is expected to be revenue-producing, up to a maximum of ten years.
The directors review the capitalised development expenditure on an on-going basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
Research expenditure is charged to the Consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised computer software is stated at cost, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Amortisation is charged on software so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives, up to a maximum of eight years.
116 116 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings up to 50 years Short leasehold buildings under 50 years over the life of the lease Equipment and motor vehicles 2 to 10 years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their expected useful economic lives and the terms of the relevant lease.
Where significant, the residual values and the useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are re-assessed annually.
h Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently carried at amortised cost less provision for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made where the Group identifies a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and other local economic and market conditions and are calculated by discounting expected cash flows using the effective interest rate at origination of the receivable.
Service concession assets Under the terms of a Private Finance Initiative PFI or similar project, the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset remain largely with the purchaser of the associated services.
In such cases, the Groups interest in the asset is classified as a financial asset and included at its discounted value within trade and other receivables, to the extent to which the Group has an unconditional right to receive cash from the grantor of the concession for the construction of the asset.
To the extent that the Group has the right to charge for the use of such an asset, conditional upon the extent of the use, the Group recognises an intangible asset.
Current asset investments Current asset investments comprise investments in securities which are classified as held-for-trading.
Such investments are initially recognised at cost, including transaction costs, and subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and that form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated statement of cash flow.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank overdrafts, loans and loan notes are recognised at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognised in the Consolidated income statement on an accrual basis using the effective-interest method.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated initially at fair value.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
i Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business in bringing inventories to their present condition and location and includes appropriate overheads.
Cost is calculated using either the weighted average or the first-in-first-out method.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
j Impairment The carrying values of the Groups assets, with the exception of inventories, financial receivables and deferred tax assets, are reviewed on an on-going basis for any indication of impairment and, if any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement whenever the carrying value of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of any other asset, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine its recoverable amount.
The amount of the reversal is limited such that the assets carrying amount does not exceed that which would have been determined after depreciation and amortisation if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 117 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued k Employee benefits Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefits scheme.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated statement of financial position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from the calculation is recognised in the Consolidated statement of financial position, limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
For defined benefit plans, the cost charged to the Consolidated income statement consists of current service cost, net interest cost, and past service cost.
The finance element of the pension charge is shown in finance expense and the remaining service cost element is charged as a component of employee costs in the Consolidated income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses and other re-measurement gains and losses are recognised immediately in full within other comprehensive income.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
The fair value of share-based payments is determined at the date of grant and expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
The amount expensed is adjusted over the vesting period for changes in the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest, excluding changes resulting from any market-related performance conditions.
The Group also issues cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are recognised as a liability at fair value at the date of grant.
The value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date the liability is settled.
Changes in the liability are recognised directly in the Consolidated income statement.
l Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
The amount recognised as a provision is the Groups best estimate of the likely outflows at the end of the reporting period.
In respect of claims, onerous customer contracts and litigation, the Group provides for anticipated costs where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
Management exercise judgment in measuring the exposures to contingent liabilities see note 33 through assessing the likelihood that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the possible range of financial outcomes.
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are stated at the present value of the expected expenditure using an appropriate discount rate.
m Restructuring costs A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the on-going activities of the entity.
The Group distinguishes in the Consolidated income statement between restructuring costs that are recurring and those that relate to one-off or transformational group programmes that impact a number of operations.
Recurring restructuring costs that are incurred in the normal course of business are recorded as part of the Groups results within profit before interest, tax and amortisation PBITA.
Restructuring costs that are one-off and individually material or relate to programmes linked to the Groups wider transformation, and require approval at executive level, are disclosed separately in the Consolidated income statement.
n Revenue recognition The Groups revenue arises from two primary sources Secure Solutions products, mainly comprising manned security and facilities management services, and Cash Solutions, mainly the provision of physical cash management services.
Within Secure Solutions there are additional revenue streams arising from: Technology services, comprising the supply, installation and monitoring of alarm systems, and security and building systems technology: Facilities management: and Care & Justice services.
118 118 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Within Cash Solutions there is an additional revenue stream arising from Technology services to retailers, comprising the provision of hardware and software for customer cash management and related services.
In all of these business areas revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Certain low-volume, high-value government contracts, mainly for Care & Justice outsourcing services and facilities management services, can cover a range of bundled services over a long period of time, that are provided on a time and materials basis.
Revenue for this type of contracts is recognised on an accrual basis based on the individual services provided and in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Where services provided to customers include more than one particular revenue source, particularly in cash technology services and in the alarms business, such as the supply and installation of equipment together with on-going services and maintenance contracts, the fair value of each revenue source is separately identified and allocated to each element of the arrangement and recognised as the product is sold or the services are delivered.
Manned security, cash management, facilities management, other care and justice services and security systems services Revenue is recognised to reflect the period in which the service is provided.
Security alarm systems installations Revenue for B2B customers is recognised on completion of the installation, and the attributable costs of the installation are recognised as a cost of sale, given that economic ownership of the asset is transferred to the customer.
Revenue for B2C customers is deferred and recognised along with the revenue from the related monitoring service over the term of the contract, given that legal and economic ownership of the assets remains with the Group.
Service and monitoring fees for all alarm system contracts are recognised in the period when the service is provided.
Long-term contracts These contracts are mainly related to certain long-term construction or alarm or other technology installation projects which span one or more reporting periods and where long-term contract accounting is applied.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is measured either by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, or by the proportion that the sales value of work completed to date bears to the total sales value.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is likely that they will be agreed with the customer and hence recoverable.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that are deemed likely to be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses as they are incurred.
Where it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
o Pre-contract and mobilisation costs Pre-contract costs in respect of major outsourcing contracts, incurred after the point at which the Group achieves preferred bidder status at which point it is considered probable that the contract will be obtained and before contract mobilisation, are capitalised and expensed over the life of the contract, subject to recoverability criteria.
Costs incurred prior to this point are expensed as incurred.
Capitalised costs are expensed immediately in the event that preferred bidder status is not followed by the award of the contract, or where these may no longer be expected to be recovered through future profits.
Mobilisation costs are those costs incurred after the signing of a contract with a customer, and prior to commencement of delivery of the contract.
Costs incurred during this stage are generally only capitalised if the criteria to be capitalised as inventories or as property, plant and equipment are met.
In all other cases mobilisation costs are expensed as incurred.
p Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions are recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Managements profit-improvement plans to recover the position on loss-making contracts require a level of judgment and are generally taken into account in the calculation of the onerous contract provision only when implementation has commenced and tangible evidence exists of benefits being delivered.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the contract.
In-year operating losses from onerous contracts are accounted for as a utilisation of the related provision for future losses.
Any excess or shortfall to the initial estimate for onerous contract provisions is credited or charged in the Consolidated income statement consistent with where the charge for the initial provision was recognised.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the lease taking into account expected future sub-lease income.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 119 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued q Interest Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
This is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial assets net carrying amount.
Borrowing costs, also calculated using the effective-interest method, are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated income statement.
r Income taxes Tax is recognised in the Consolidated income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised through other comprehensive income.
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of potential deferred tax assets is re-assessed at each balance sheet date and recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow those assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Tax liabilities or refunds may differ from those anticipated due to changes in tax legislation, differing interpretations of tax legislation and uncertainties surrounding the application of tax legislation.
In situations where uncertainties exist, provision is made for tax liabilities and assets on the basis of management judgment following consideration of the available relevant information.
Further detail on managements judgments in respect of taxation is provided in note 4. s Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
On occasion this classification requires a level of judgment.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the inception of the lease at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments made or received are apportioned between finance charges or income and the reduction of the lease liability or asset so as to produce a constant rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the liability or asset.
Rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to income on a straight-line basis over the lease term, as are incentives to enter into operating leases.
t Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
The Group must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
u Dividend distribution Dividends are recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period in which they are paid or approved by the shareholders in general meeting.
120 120 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report v Adoption of new and revised accounting standards and interpretations IFRS Annual improvements 2012-14 became effective for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2016, and were endorsed by the EU, however no accounting policy changes were required as a result of adopting these improvements.
The Group has not adopted early any standard, amendment or interpretation.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been announced but are subject to EU endorsement and or are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The directors are currently evaluating the impact of these new standards on the Group accounts: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Investment entities applying the consolidation exemption IFRS 2 amendments Clarifying share-based payment transactions IAS 7 amendments Disclosure initiative IAS 12 amendments Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The Group continues to assess the potential impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on its consolidated financial statements and will adopt the standard from its effective date for the year ended 31 December 2018.
IFRS 15 is likely to impact the timing of recognition of income in respect of certain long-term Facilities Management and large, complex alarm and other technologyrelated contracts.
In addition, the Group continues to assess the impact of adopting IFRS 16 Leases, which will be effective for the Groups financial year ended 31 December 2019.
IFRS 16 is expected to increase property, plant and equipment capitalised in the Consolidated statement of financial position by approximately 400m, together with a broadly similar increase in obligations under finance leases.
Whilst IFRS 16 is not expected to change materially the Groups profit before tax, it will increase PBITA due to re-classification of the interest element of lease payments as finance costs.
In April 2016 the IFRIC issued an agenda decision on when and whether entities are able to offset balances in accordance with IAS 32.
The IFRIC noted that, to the extent to which a Group does not expect to settle its subsidiaries period-end account balances on a net basis, it would not be appropriate for the Group to assert that it had the intention to settle the entire period-end balances on a net basis at the reporting date.
In the current and previous reporting periods certain of the Groups balances did not meet this offset criterion and have therefore been presented re-presented respectively to show the gross position.
Accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, with respect to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgments, estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, including current and expected economic conditions, and, in some cases, actuarial techniques.
Although these judgments, estimates and associated assumptions are based on managements best knowledge of current events and circumstances, the actual results may differ.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The judgments, estimates and assumptions which are of most significance in preparing the Groups 2016 accounts are detailed below: Revenue recognition The majority of the Groups revenue is generated by the provision of manned security services or cash management services and, as described in note 3 n, is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable.
The Group also delivers certain long-term outsourcing services which can be complex in nature and may be governed by unique contractual arrangements.
In these cases, revenue is recognised in line with the contract at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
In such contracts, there can be significant judgments and estimates in relation to variations or claims not specified within the original contract, to interpretation of complex contract wording, and in relation to estimates required to determine future costs to complete and expected margins, including the impact of contractual performance conditions which may give rise to penalties.
Onerous contracts When a long-term contract is expected to incur future unavoidable losses and has therefore become onerous, judgment is required to assess the future expected revenue and costs and hence to determine the appropriate level of provision.
Further judgment is necessary in determining the extent to which account is taken of profit improvement plans developed by management to improve the profitability of the contract over the remainder of its life.
Such plans are generally taken into account only once they have been developed and implementation has commenced, and there is tangible evidence of benefits being delivered.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 121 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions continued In addition, where onerous contracts have a termination date that can be extended solely at the customers request, consideration is given, based on all facts and circumstances known by management, as to whether to provide for future losses to the earliest or the final termination date.
For further details of how the Group has applied judgments and estimates to significant onerous contract provisions refer to note 33 on pages 154 and 155.
Carrying value of goodwill The Group tests tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.
The impairment analysis for such assets is based principally upon discounted estimated future cash flows from the use and eventual disposal of the assets.
Such an analysis includes the estimation of future results, cash flows, annual growth rates and discount rates.
Judgment is required in relation to the achievability of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
In certain circumstances, where market prices can be ascertained for example through recent transactions, fair value less costs to sell is used as a basis for the recoverable amount.
This involves judgments and estimates to apply reasonable valuation techniques and to estimate future selling costs.
The full methodology and results of the Groups impairment testing are presented in note 18.
Taxation The Group operates in many tax jurisdictions including countries where the tax legislation is not consistently applied and under some complex contractual circumstances where the responsibility for tax arising is not always clear.
Management are required to apply judgments and estimates to determine the appropriate amount of tax to provide for and any required disclosure around contingent tax liabilities at each period end.
Provisions for tax liabilities are estimated for existing matters under dispute with local tax authorities, as well as for matters which it is considered may be disputed by them, where it is probable that a future liability will arise.
The tax liability provided is managements best estimate, taking into account external advice, the anticipated position of the relevant tax authorities, and other local factors.
In certain cases, and where appropriate, a probability weighting is applied in determining the amount provided.
In all cases it is assumed that the local tax authorities have, or will be provided with, full information.
Therefore the tax liability is not reduced for detection risk.
Further details about the range of the potential tax exposure to which the Group is subject to are set out in note 13.
The Group has tax losses and other deductible temporary differences, mainly in the UK and USA, that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that their recovery is probable, having regard to the projected future taxable income of these entities and after taking into account specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these assets.
Management uses the same profit projections for these purposes as are used by the business, for example in assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
Managements judgment in this area is applied on a case-by-case basis due to the jurisdictional nature of taxation.
This analysis is considered afresh at each balance sheet date.
Compliance with foreign ownership rules and consolidation of subsidiaries The Group has a diverse set of complex ownership structures, which are sometimes driven by local laws and regulations relating to foreign ownership.
In some instances the Group operates through local structures with limited direct share ownership of the business but exercises control through shareholder agreements.
In determining whether some Group entities qualify for consolidation under IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements, professional and legal advice is sought and a level of judgment is required.
Consolidation of any of these entities would be at risk if the Groups ability to enforce its rights of control was successfully challenged.
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations The valuation of defined retirement benefit schemes is arrived at using the advice of qualified independent actuaries who use the projected unit credit method for determining the Groups obligations.
This methodology requires the use of a variety of assumptions and estimates, including the appropriate discount rate, the expected return on scheme assets, mortality assumptions, future service and earnings increases of employees and inflation.
Full details of the Groups retirement benefit obligations, including an analysis of the sensitivity of the calculations to the key assumptions are presented in note 32.
Classification of leases The classification of leases as operating or finance leases is based on the criteria set out in IAS 17 Leases, which defines a series of attributes which, when contained within a lease, may result in its classification as a finance lease.
Judgment is required in assessing leases at inception as to whether individual attributes, in aggregate or in isolation, are such that the substance of the lease is that of a finance lease.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue, as defined by IAS 18 Revenue, is as follows: 2016 2015 Notes m m Continuing operations Sale of goods 311 132 Rendering of services 7,072 6,561 Revenue from construction contracts 207 170 Revenue from continuing operations as presented in the Consolidated income statement 6 7,590 6,863 122 122 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report 6.
Operating segments The Group operates on a worldwide basis and derives a substantial proportion of its revenue and operating profit from each of the following seven geographic regions: Africa, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle East & India, Europe, North America and UK & Ireland.
For each of these reportable segments, the Group executive committee the chief operating decision maker reviews internal management reports on a regular basis.
As announced in the Integrated Report and Accounts 2015, with effect from 1 January 2016 the former Asia Middle East region was split into Asia Pacific and Middle East & India, following a change in the leadership structure and reporting in this region.
The 2015 comparatives have therefore been re-presented to reflect the split of the total 2015 Asia Middle East revenue of 1,421m and PBITA of 117m between the two new regions.
Segment information is presented below: 2016 2015 Revenue by reportable segment m m Africa 501 470 Asia Pacific 714 684 Latin America 660 626 Middle East & India 859 737 Emerging markets 2,734 2,517 Europe 1,441 1,304 North America 1,904 1,523 UK & Ireland 1,511 1,519 Developed markets 4,856 4,346 Total revenue 7,590 6,863 Total gross InterTotal gross Intersegment segment External segment segment External revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue Revenue from internal and external 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 customers by reportable segment m m m m m m Secure Solutions 6,361 12 6,349 5,820 9 5,811 Cash Solutions 1,242 1 1,241 1,054 2 1,052 Total revenue 7,603 13 7,590 6,874 11 6,863 Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total Operating profit before corporate costs, 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 by reportable segment and geographical area m m m m m m Africa 35 1 34 30 30 Asia Pacific 56 56 43 43 Latin America 15 15 15 15 Middle East & India 76 76 74 74 Europe 95 95 74 74 North America 115 2 113 90 90 UK & Ireland 119 119 115 115 PBITA before corporate costs 511 3 508 441 441 Corporate costs 50 50 50 50 PBITA 461 3 458 391 391 Net specific items 13 13 70 5 65 Restructuring costs 12 12 44 44 Net profit loss on disposal closure of subsidiaries 7 7 12 3 9 Goodwill impairment 9 9 66 1 67 Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses 32 32 40 40 Operating profit loss 402 3 399 183 1 184 Refer to note 7 for details on discontinued operations.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 123 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Operating segments continued Segment assets and liabilities The following information is analysed by reportable segment and by the geographical area in which the assets are located: Total Total Total Total assets assets liabilities liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 Total assets and liabilities m m m m By reportable segment and geographical area Africa 238 196 117 87 Asia Pacific 429 397 135 106 Latin America 327 280 124 87 Middle East & India 342 296 172 138 Europe 767 696 301 263 North America 931 773 224 161 UK & Ireland 1,178 1,241 333 341 Inter-segment trading balance 190 148 190 148 Total segment assets and liabilities 4,022 3,731 1,216 1,035 Corporate 140 99 130 141 Total operating assets and liabilities 4,162 3,830 1,346 1,176 Non-operating assets and liabilities 1,449 1,045 3,402 3,008 Total assets and liabilities 5,611 4,875 4,748 4,184 2016 2015 Non-current operating assets m m By reportable segment and geographical area Africa 118 100 Asia Pacific 277 251 Latin America 180 149 Middle East & India 126 111 Europe 466 426 North America 577 481 UK & Ireland 877 920 Total segment assets 2,621 2,438 Corporate 19 55 Total non-current operating assets 2,640 2,493 Non-operating assets 438 281 Less: Non-current assets held for sale 67 25 Total non-current assets 3,011 2,749 Non-operating assets and liabilities comprise financial assets and liabilities, taxation assets and liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
Included within operating and non-operating assets are 133m 2015: 47m and 18m 2015: 11m respectively relating to disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Included within operating and non-operating liabilities are 51m 2015: 19m and 7m 2015: 11m respectively relating to liabilities associated with disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Disposal groups are analysed in note 25.
The 2015 information for Asia Pacific and Middle East & India has been re-presented to reflect the split from the Asia Middle East information as presented in the prior year.
2015 operating assets for Asia Middle East were 693m, operating liabilities were 244m and non-current operating assets were 362m.
124 124 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Other information Impairment Impairment losses Depreciation losses Depreciation recognised and Capital recognised and Capital in income amortisation additions in income amortisation additions 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 By reportable segment m m m m m m Africa 13 12 9 15 16 Asia Pacific 13 6 9 15 14 Latin America 14 15 9 13 18 9 Middle East & India 11 9 2 10 25 Europe 45 33 33 42 54 North America 10 13 11 15 UK & Ireland 9 53 32 1 63 31 Corporate 3 15 3 2 Total 23 163 129 67 177 166 The 2015 information for Asia Pacific and Middle East & India has been re-presented to reflect the split from the Asia Middle East information as presented in the prior year.
Discontinued operations Discontinued operations comprise assets and liabilities relating to a number of historical disposals, the largest of which is the US Government Solutions business sold in 2014.
The loss from discontinued operations during the year comprises costs and charges incurred on historical disposals which were classified as discontinued operations at the time of disposal.
The results of the discontinued operations are presented below: 2016 2015 m m Operating loss before specific items and other separately disclosed items 3 Specific items charges 2 Specific items credits 7 Goodwill impairment 1 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 3 Loss profit before tax 3 1 Tax 3 Loss from discontinued operations for the year 3 2 During the prior year the Group re-classified its business in Costa Rica, together with certain small businesses that had been classified as discontinued operations for more than 12 months and not yet been sold, into continuing operations.
Also during the prior year, the Group collected 26m $40m of receivables relating to the US Government Solutions business, which was sold in November 2014.
Of this amount 7m was not recognised in the Groups Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014 and therefore was recognised as income within specific items in 2015.
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 6.
Cash flows from discontinued operations included in the Consolidated statement of cash flow are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Net cash flows from operating activities after tax 9 26 Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 125 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Operating profit The Consolidated income statement can be analysed as follows: 2016 2015 Continuing operations m m Revenue 7,590 6,863 Cost of sales 6,212 5,657 Gross profit 1,378 1,206 Administration expenses 976 967 Goodwill impairment 9 66 Share of profit after tax from joint ventures 9 10 Operating profit 402 183 Operating profit includes items that are separately disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2016 relating to: Specific items of a net 13m 2015: 70m included a 10m charge relating to legacy acquisitions and labour claims in Latin America, 7m relating to commercial restructuring in Middle East & India, and a net 4m supplementary onerous contract provision primarily in respect of the Compass asylum seekers contract, offset by an 8m credit mainly relating to the recovery of a legal claim in Europe and of certain disputed debtor balances in the UK: Costs of 12m 2015: 44m arising from restructuring activities during the year, mainly relating to the multi-year strategic productivity programme across the Group.
In addition, the Group incurred non-strategic reorganisation costs of 9m 2015: 10m which are included within cost of sales or administration expenses as appropriate: Acquisition-related amortisation costs of 32m 2015: 40m relating to legacy acquisitions were lower in 2016 as certain intangible assets recognised on a number of historical acquisitions became fully amortised in 2015.
In addition the Group recognised a goodwill impairment charge of 9m 2015: 66m relating to businesses held for sale or closure: and A net profit on disposal closure of subsidiaries of 7m 2015: 12m relating to the disposal of a number of the Groups operations including the Cash Solutions business in Thailand, the businesses in Finland, Brunei and Kazakhstan, and the Utilities Services and ATM engineering businesses in the UK, together with a loss arising on closure of a systems business in Latin America.
Profit from operations Profit from continuing and discontinued operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Notes m m m m m m Cost of sales Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 112 112 103 103 Onerous contract provisions 8,33 4 4 65 65 Administration expenses Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses 8 32 32 40 40 Restructuring costs 8 12 12 44 44 Goodwill impairment 18 9 9 66 1 67 Review of assets and liabilities 17 17 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19 106 106 110 110 Amortisation of other intangible assets 18 25 25 25 25 Net profit loss on disposal closure of subsidiaries 17 7 7 12 3 9 Impairment of trade receivables 23 21 21 12 12 Research and development expenditure 4 4 8 8 Operating lease rentals payable 98 98 99 99 Pension curtailment gain 5 5 Pension legal settlement 7 7 Share-based payments 39 13 13 8 8 126 126 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report 10.
Auditors remuneration 2016 2015 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 2016 fees including 1m in respect of prior years 7 5 All other services 2 1 Other services relates to the provision of tax and non-audit advisory services.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 72 to 77 outlines the Companys established policy for ensuring that audit independence is not compromised through the provision by the Companys auditor of other services.
Staff costs and employees The average monthly number of employees, in continuing and discontinued operations, including executive directors was: 2016 2015 By reportable segment and geographical area Number Number Africa 126,182 124,707 Asia Pacific 59,996 66,988 Latin America 73,907 75,637 Middle East & India 176,330 176,498 Europe 53,287 59,716 North America 55,522 56,393 UK & Ireland 34,293 35,843 Head office 171 196 Total average number of employees excluding joint ventures 579,688 595,978 Average number of employees employed by joint ventures 13,209 15,388 Total average number of employees including joint ventures 592,897 611,366 Their aggregate remuneration, in continuing and discontinued operations, comprised: 2016 2015 m m Wages and salaries 4,533 4,128 Social security costs 479 443 Employee benefits 228 221 Total staff costs excluding joint ventures 5,240 4,792 Joint venture staff costs 64 58 Total staff costs including joint ventures 5,304 4,850 The 2015 information for Asia Pacific and Middle East & India has been re-presented to reflect the split from the Asia Middle East information as presented in the prior year.
Information on directors remuneration, long-term incentive plans, pension contributions and entitlements is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 98.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 127 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Net finance expense 2016 2015 m m Interest and other income on cash, cash equivalents and investments 15 13 Interest receivable on loan note related derivatives 18 13 Gain arising from fair value adjustment to the hedged loan note items 11 10 Loss arising from change in fair value of derivative financial instruments hedging loan notes 11 10 Finance income 33 26 Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 21 23 Interest on loan notes 97 88 Interest on obligations under finance leases 5 4 Other interest charges 6 4 Total group borrowing costs 129 119 Finance costs on defined retirement benefit obligations 10 12 Finance expense 139 131 Net finance expense 106 105 Included within group borrowing costs is a charge of 3m 2015: 5m relating to cash-flow hedges that were transferred from equity during the year.
Tax Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 m m m m m m Current tax expense credit Current year 91 91 69 2 71 Adjustments in respect of prior years note vi 19 19 7 3 4 Total current tax expense 110 110 62 5 67 Deferred tax expense credit see note 34 Current year 6 6 Re-assessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses note v 36 36 9 9 Adjustments in respect of prior years note vi 4 4 3 2 5 Total deferred tax credit 34 34 12 2 14 Total income tax expense for the year 76 76 50 3 53 UK corporation tax is calculated at 20% 2015: 20.25% of the estimated assessable profits for the year.
Overseas tax is calculated at the corporation tax rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
128 128 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the Consolidated income statement as follows: 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax Continuing operations 296 78 Discontinued operations 3 1 Total profit before tax 293 79 Tax at UK corporation tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.25% 59 16 Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit note i 25 2 Goodwill impairments not deductible 2 14 Profits on disposal of businesses not taxable or covered by capital losses note ii 8 5 Losses on disposal of businesses not relieved note ii 7 - Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in non-UK jurisdictions note iii 12 15 Benefit of tax incentives and credits 5 4 Movement in deferred tax balance due to phased reduction in UK rate to 17% 2015: 18% 4 5 Adjustment for joint ventures 1 2 Tax losses not recognised in the current year note iv 2 30 Re-assessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses note v 36 9 Adjustment in respect of prior years current and deferred tax note vi 15 9 Total income tax charge 76 53 Effective tax rate for continuing and discontinued operations 26% 67% The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 26% 2015: 64%.
i Items that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 25m 2015: 2m This category reflects the tax effect of items which, in managements judgment, are potentially disallowable for the purposes of determining local taxable profits.
This includes unrelieved withholding taxes of 9m 2015: 1m relating to withholding tax deducted on domestic or cross-border payments in excess of the profits tax arising in the recipient company.
ii Profits on disposal of businesses not taxable or covered by capital losses 8 m 2015: 5 m This relates to profits arising on the disposal of businesses where any taxable gain arising on the disposal is either exempt from tax under the relevant tax legislation or there are capital losses available to offset against those taxable gains, for which deferred tax assets were not previously recognised.
Similarly, losses on disposal of businesses not relieved 7m 2015: nil relates to the disposal of businesses where no deductible loss arises or where there is a low probability that losses will be utilised.
iii Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in non-UK jurisdictions 12m 2015: 15m This relates to the effect of profits of the Group being subject to tax at rates different from the current UK corporation tax rate of 20%.
iv Tax losses not recognised in the current year 2m 2015: 30m This relates to current-year losses not recognised as deferred tax assets on the basis that there are insufficient taxable profits available to utilise those losses in the foreseeable future.
A significant proportion of the prior-year figure relates to UK losses which are included in the amounts re-assessed in 2016 see note v. v Re-assessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses 36 m 2015: 9 m Relates to the recognition of additional deferred tax assets on historical tax losses during the period as a result of improvements in profitability in group forecasts and business plans.
vi Adjustment in respect of prior years current and deferred tax 15m 2015: 9 m This relates to a re-assessment of the tax deductibility of expense items and provisions for unresolved tax issues as a result of case law developments and settlements with tax authorities.
Issues relating to taxation The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves consideration of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be ultimately determined until final resolution has been reached through negotiation with the relevant tax authorities, or via a domestic or international dispute resolution process.
The global nature of the Groups operations means that the most significant tax risk is in relation to challenges from tax authorities in relation to the pricing of cross-border transactions and the Groups interpretation of the OECDs arms-length principle.
In determining the appropriate level of provisions in respect of such challenges, the Group applies a risk-based approach and also assesses the likelihood that compensating adjustments will be obtained under the relevant double-tax treaties.
The Group has open tax periods in a number of countries involving a number of issues, with the most material disputes typically being in respect of cross-border transactions.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 129 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Tax continued As at 31 December 2016, the Group had total tax exposures of approximately 102m 2015: 66m of which 37m 2015: 16m is provided against.
The Group believes that it has made appropriate provision for open tax periods which have not yet been agreed by tax authorities.
The final agreed liabilities may vary from the amounts provided, as these are dependent upon the outcomes of the domestic and international dispute resolution processes in the relevant countries.
During 2015, the Group paid 19m in respect of a disputed liability in a particular jurisdiction in order to reduce exposure to interest and penalties.
No further payment or receipt occurred in 2016 and none is expected in the next 12 months.
The timing of final resolution of this case cannot currently be determined due to the nature of the dispute resolution process.
Following the referendum held on 23 June 2016, the UK voted to leave the European Union.
The potential tax impacts which could arise as a consequence of the UK withdrawing from the European Union are currently uncertain, but on the basis of current information the Group does not anticipate that significant additional tax liabilities will arise.
The following taxation credit charge has been recognised directly in equity within the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 2016 2015 m m Tax relating to defined retirement benefit schemes 28 11 Recognition of tax losses on exchange movements previously recognised within other comprehensive income 29 Current tax charge for exchange movements recognised within other comprehensive income 8 Change in fair value of net-investment and cash-flow hedging financial instruments 1 1 Total tax credited charged to other comprehensive income 50 10 14.
Dividends Pence DKK 2016 2015 per share per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders of the parent in the year Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 5.82 0.6041 90 Interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2015 3.59 0.3793 55 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 5.82 0.5615 90 Interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2016 3.59 0.3143 55 145 145 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 5.82 0.5029 90 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
If so approved, it will be paid on 9 June 2017 to shareholders who are on the register on 28 April 2017.
The Danish kroner exchange rate shown above for the dividend is that at 7 March 2017.
Earnings per share attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 2016 2015 m m From continuing and discontinued operations Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 198 8 Weighted-average number of ordinary shares m 1,546 1,545 Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations pence Basic and diluted 12.8p 0.5p From continuing operations Earnings Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 198 8 Adjustment to exclude loss for the year from discontinued operations net of tax 3 2 Profit from continuing operations 201 10 Earnings per share from continuing operations pence Basic and diluted 13.0p 0.6p From discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations net of tax 3 2 Loss per share from discontinued operations pence Basic and diluted 0.2 p 0.1 p 130 130 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report 16.
Acquisitions The Group has not made any material acquisitions in the year.
In the prior year the Group invested 17m acquiring a number of small businesses in the Netherlands, Greece and Colombia and made payments for deferred consideration on certain acquisitions made in prior years.
In addition, during the prior year, shareholder agreements were re-negotiated for certain joint ventures in Middle East & India resulting in the Group obtaining control of these operations.
The Group accounted for this as an acquisition, consolidating the balance sheets from the date control was obtained.
Disposals and closures As part of the on-going portfolio programme, in 2016 the Group sold 12 businesses, including the Cash Solutions business in Thailand, the businesses in Finland, Brunei and Kazakhstan, and the Utilities Services and ATM engineering businesses in the UK, realising aggregate proceeds of 82m.
A further four businesses were closed during the year, and in addition the Group is in the process of closing a systems business in Latin America which resulted in a loss of 16m in relation to assets written off and costs expected to be incurred in 2017.
In 2015 the Group disposed of a number of small operations, with the most material being the disposal of the International Parcel Service business in the Groups Asia Pacific region, resulting in a profit of 12m.
The net profit on disposal included a loss on disposal in discontinued operations of 3m.
The net assets and net profit on disposal closure of operations disposed of or closed were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Goodwill 9 Acquisition-related intangible assets 1  intangible assets 3 Property, plant and equipment 18 2 Other non-current assets 2 Current assets 86 6 Liabilities 44 6 Net assets of operations disposed of closed 75 2 Net profit on disposal closure 7 9 Total consideration 82 11 Satisfied by: Cash received 90 14 Disposal costs 8 Total consideration relating to current year disposals 82 14 Additional consideration to be paid relating to disposals completed in prior years 3 Total consideration recognised in the current year 82 11 Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 131 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Intangible assets Acquisition-related intangible assets Customer Other Goodwill Trademarks related Technology intangibles Total 2016 m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 1,962 33 643 9 235 2,882 Acquisition of businesses 2 2 Additions 30 30 Disposals 1 6 28 35 Transferred to held for sale 49 23 3 75 Re-classifications 2 2 Exchange differences 245 1 58 21 325 At 31 December 2016 2,157 34 674 9 255 3,129 Amortisation and accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2016 134 31 599 8 153 925 Amortisation charge 31 1 25 57 Impairment 9 9 Disposals 3 23 26 Transferred to held for sale 22 2 24 Exchange differences 24 1 53 16 94 At 31 December 2016 167 32 658 9 169 1,035 Carrying amount At 1 January 2016 1,828 2 44 1 82 1,957 At 31 December 2016 1,990 2 16 86 2,094 2015 Cost At 1 January 2015 2,011 32 654 9 220 2,926 Acquisition of businesses 14 7 21 Additions 2 24 26 Disposals 2 3 5 Transferred to held for sale 14 2 3 19 Re-classifications 2 1 2 1 2 Exchange differences 47 14 4 65 At 31 December 2015 1,962 33 643 9 235 2,882 Amortisation and accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2015 87 31 573 7 138 836 Amortisation charge 41 1 25 67 Impairment 67 67 Disposals 2 3 5 Transferred to held for sale 6 2 2 10 Re-classifications 1 1 2 Exchange differences 14 10 4 28 At 31 December 2015 134 31 599 8 153 925 Carrying amount At 1 January 2015 1,924 1 81 2 82 2,090 At 31 December 2015 1,828 2 44 1 82 1,957 132 132 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Goodwill allocation Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating units CGUs which are expected to benefit from that business combination.
A significant portion of the Groups goodwill was generated by the merger of the security services businesses of Group 4 Falck and Securicor in 2004, which was accounted for as an acquisition of Securicor by Group 4 Falck.
Goodwill impairment testing The Group tests tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that any of these assets may be impaired.
The annual impairment test is performed prior to the year end when the budgeting process is finalised and is reviewed post year end.
The Groups impairment test compares the carrying value of each CGU with its recoverable amount.
CGUs for goodwill impairment testing purposes are identified on a country level basis including significant business units, consistent with the Groups detailed management accounts.
Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, an impairment is deemed to have occurred where the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying value.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is generally determined by its value in use which is derived from discounted cash flow calculations.
The key inputs to the calculations are described below.
In certain circumstances, where market prices can be ascertained for example through recent transactions or by reference to normal industry standard multiples, the fair value less costs to sell is used as a basis for the recoverable amount.
In the current year the value of goodwill in the Brazil Secure Solutions, Greece and Guatemala CGUs was supported by this valuation method.
Forecast cash flows All operating countries in the Group are required to submit a budget for the next financial year for the year ending 31 December 2017 and their strategic plan forecasts for the following two years for the years ending 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2019.
The revenue figures submitted in this exercise are used to derive a growth rate for the discounted cash flow calculation see the growth rate table below.
Forecast cash flows are projected by applying growth rates as detailed in the growth rate section below, and discounted using country-specific risk-adjusted discount rates as described in the discount rate section.
Growth rate Growth rates are determined from the budgeted and forecast revenue for years 1-3 with year 4 being calculated to achieve a smooth reduction from the year 3 growth rate to the year 5 rate, which is the lower of the year 3 plan rate and the IMF long-term countryspecific inflation rate.
The terminal value calculation also uses the long-term inflation rates as used in year 5.
This is detailed in the table below: Growth assumptions Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Terminal value Input Budget Strategic plan Strategic plan Projected to achieve Projected lower of Country-specific forecast forecast midpoint between year 3 forecast or long-term years 3 and 5 country inflation inflation rate Example 8% 7% 6% 4% 2% 2% Budgets and forecasts are reviewed by the group board.
In the above example, budgeted year 1 growth rate is 8%, forecast growth in year 2 is 7% and in year 3 is 6%.
The long-term country inflation rate is 2% so the growth rate is reduced in year 4 to be the midpoint between 6% in year 3 and 2% in year 5, i. e. 4%.
The terminal value calculation is then based on the long-term inflation rate of 2%.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 133 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Intangible assets continued Discount rate Discount rates are calculated for each CGU based on the relevant local risk-free rate adjusted for that CGUs specific risk-adjusted equity risk premium.
Details of how the key discount rate inputs are derived are given below: Input How determined 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Risk-free rate Where possible, the risk-free rate is obtained from the local governments 1.89% in UK 2.52% in UK 20 year gilt bond rates.
Where these are unavailable the Group uses the closest available information e. g. 10-year, or shorter-term gilt rates.
UK equity risk premium The equity risk premium is determined for the UK by analysing a variety 6.4% in UK 6.4% in UK of sources including economic studies carried out by Barclays Capital and others.
Operating country Specific local equity risk premiums are based on the UK risk premium equity risk premium adjusted for specific economic and financial risks.
The sources for these adjustments are the Institutional Investor Magazine and the IMF website as well as other studies by independent economists.
Leveraged beta Beta is a risk adjustment applied to the discount rate to reflect the risk of 0.7 for the 0.8 for the the Groups operating companies relative to the market as a whole.
The Group Group Groups beta is obtained from independent market studies and is adjusted for the appropriate leverage of the Group.
Tax rate Local tax rates are applied to each CGU to calculate pre-tax cost of equity.
20% in UK 20% in UK Debt margin The Group applies a margin to the cost of debt for each CGU, with a 1.5% in UK 1.5% in UK higher margin applied to those CGUs operating in higher risk environments.
These margins range from 1.5% in less risky CGUs e. g. in the UK to 6.5% in more risky CGUs e. g. in Guinea and Sierra Leone.
Weighted-average cost The weighted-average cost of capital is calculated by weighting the cost of 8.1% in UK 8.6% in UK of capital pre-tax equity and the cost of debt by the applicable debt to equity ratio at the year end.
The table below sets out the pre-tax discount rates and growth rates used for the countries that represent significant goodwill balances: Long-term Long-term Goodwill Goodwill Discount rate Discount rate growth rate growth rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m Brazil 19.7% 19.0% 4.5% 4.6% 86 59 United States of America 9.7% 10.0% 2.2% 2.4% 490 412 Hong Kong 7.0% 7.7% 3.0% 3.5% 51 43 Malaysia 11.9% 12.2% 3.0% 3.0% 37 34 Estonia 9.8% 10.7% 2.7% 2.2% 36 31 Netherlands 6.9% 7.8% 1.2% 1.9% 154 133 United Kingdom 8.1% 8.6% 2.0% 2.0% 696 697 Other all allocated 440 419 Total goodwill 1,990 1,828 Lower of long-term country inflation rate per the IMF and implied year 3 business forecast growth rate.
Within the UK, the most significant CGUs and their goodwill carrying values are UK Central Government Services 225m, UK Cash Solutions 205m and UK Secure Solutions 102m.
Within the USA, the most significant CGU is US Commercial Security Solutions with goodwill of 444m.
134 134 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Impairment During the year the Group recognised an impairment charge of 9m relating to businesses held for sale or closure as a result of their estimated recoverable amounts being less than the carrying value of their net assets.
During the prior year, impairment charges totalling 66m were recorded in respect of the Group's goodwill relating to continuing operations, including 25m in Estonia and 11m in the Brazil systems business, as shown below: Goodwill Goodwill pre-impairment Impairment post-impairment 2015 2015 2015 m m m Brazil Technology 11 11 Estonia 56 25 31 Serbia 8 8 Papua New Guinea 5 5 Chile 2 2 China 4 4 South Africa Cash Solutions 22 9 13 Other impaired 2 2 Total 110 66 44 Other than for Estonia, these businesses were all identified for sale or closure during the prior year and their carrying value was therefore compared to their recoverable amount, being the expected net proceeds from disposal.
Where the carrying value was less than the expected proceeds any goodwill was written down to the recoverable amount.
The 2015 impairment charge in Estonia reduced goodwill to the estimated recoverable amount based on the challenging economic environment and revised business expectations at that time.
No further impairment charge has been recognised against the carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2016 in either Estonia or South Africa Cash Solutions, as improving profit forecasts support the headroom in their respective CGU discounted cash-flow calculations.
Sensitivity analyses performed for these CGUs, including the risk of customer attrition or of failure to secure new contracts, show a range of potential additional impairment charges of up to 17m.
Sensitivity to key assumptions The key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow calculations relate to the discount rates and growth rates used.
The table below shows the additional impairment that would arise from an increase in discount rates by 1% and 3% with all other variables being equal, for example, taking the UK base rate from 8.1% to 9.1% and 11.1% or a decrease in growth rates by 1% and 3% to a minimum of 0% with all other variables being equal, for example, taking the UK growth rate from 2.0% to 1.0% and 0.0% for the Group in total and for each of its countries that represent significant goodwill balances: Additional impairment Additional impairment 1% 3% Base 1% 3% Goodwill Base increase increase growth decrease decrease 2016 discount rate 2016 2016 rate 2016 2016 m 2016 m m 2016 m m Brazil 86 19.7% 4.5% United States of America 490 9.7% 2.2% Hong Kong 51 7.0% 3.0% Malaysia 37 11.9% 3.0% Estonia 36 9.8% 2.7% Netherlands 154 6.9% 1.2% United Kingdom 696 8.1% 2.0% Other all allocated 440 1 3 2 2 Total 1,990 1 3 2 2 Lower of country growth rate per the IMF and implied year 3 business forecast growth rate.
As described above, the recoverable amount of the goodwill held in the Brazil CGU is based on fair value less costs to sell, with an appropriate valuation multiple applied to profit forecasts, rather than on a value-in-use basis.
No impairment charge has been recognised against the carrying value of goodwill in this CGU at 31 December 2016.
Sensitivity analysis performed for the CGU, including the risk of failure to control cost, of customer attrition or of not achieving the valuation multiple used, shows a range of potential additional impairment charges of up to 20m.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 135 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Equipment buildings and vehicles Total 2016 m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 232 816 1,048 Additions 12 87 99 Disposals 5 73 78 Transferred to held for sale 6 10 16 Re-classifications 1 6 5 Exchange differences 21 119 140 At 31 December 2016 255 933 1,188 Depreciation and accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2016 89 532 621 Depreciation charge 14 92 106 Disposals 4 59 63 Transferred to held for sale 2 2 4 Re-classifications 5 5 Exchange differences 12 84 96 At 31 December 2016 109 642 751 Carrying amount At 1 January 2016 143 284 427 At 31 December 2016 146 291 437 Land and Equipment buildings and vehicles Total 2015 m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 248 887 1,135 Acquisition of businesses 2 2 Additions 9 114 123 Disposals 14 91 105 Transferred to held for sale 6 45 51 Re-classifications 2 8 6 Exchange differences 7 43 50 At 31 December 2015 232 816 1,048 Depreciation and accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2015 86 581 667 Depreciation charge 13 97 110 Disposals 8 83 91 Transferred to held for sale 4 32 36 Re-classifications 4 4 Exchange differences 2 27 29 At 31 December 2015 89 532 621 Carrying amount At 1 January 2015 162 306 468 At 31 December 2015 143 284 427 The net book value of equipment and vehicles held under finance leases was 39m 2015: 53m.
Accumulated depreciation on these assets was 126m 2015: 128m and the depreciation charge for the year was 21m 2015: 20m.
The rights over assets held on finance leases are effectively security for lease liabilities.
These rights revert to the lessor in the event of default.
136 136 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report The net book value of equipment and vehicles includes 23m 2015: 18m of assets leased by the Group to third parties under operating leases.
Accumulated depreciation on these assets was 40m 2015: 27m and the depreciation charge for the year was 7m 2015: 5m.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises freeholds of 71m 2015: 63m, long leaseholds of 20m 2015: 19m and short leaseholds of 55m 2015: 61m.
Investment in joint ventures The following is summarised aggregate financial information for the Groups interest in joint ventures that are not material to the Group, based on the amounts reported in the Groups consolidated financial statements: 2016 2015 m m Carrying amount of interests in joint ventures 19 18 Group's share of: Profit from continuing operations 9 10 Total comprehensive income 9 10 During the prior year the Group re-negotiated shareholder agreements in certain joint ventures in the Middle East & India region which resulted in the Group obtaining control of these entities.
From the date the change in agreement was approved these entities have been accounted for as subsidiaries under the Groups control in accordance with IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inventories 2016 2015 m m Raw materials 7 9 Work in progress 15 11 Finished goods including consumables 90 83 Total inventories 112 103 22.
Investments Investments comprise primarily listed securities of 31m 2015: 41m held by the Groups wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries.
These are stated at their fair values based on quoted market prices consistent with Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.
Use of these investments is restricted to the settlement of claims against the Groups captive insurance subsidiaries.
Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 Notes m m Within current assets Accrued income 151 164 Trade debtors 1,060 970 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 65 53 Receivables from customers in respect of cash processing operations 26 10 8 Other debtors 106 88 Current tax receivable 61 46 Prepayments 79 82 Amounts due from construction contract customers 24 17 7 Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 23 11 Total trade and other receivables included within current assets 1,442 1,323 Within non-current assets Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 53 50 Other debtors 48 34 Total trade and other receivables included within non-current assets 101 84 Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 137 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Trade and other receivables continued Credit risk on trade receivables There is limited concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Groups customers are both large in number and dispersed geographically in around 100 countries.
The Groups largest customer is the UK Government which comprises approximately 10% 2015:10% of the total trade debtor balance as at 31 December 2016.
Group companies are required to follow the Group Finance Manual guidelines with respect to assessing the credit-worthiness of potential customers.
These guidelines include processes such as obtaining approval for credit limits over a set amount, performing credit checks and assessments and obtaining additional security where required.
Credit terms vary across the Group and can range from 0 to 90 days to reflect the different risks within each country in which the Group operates.
There is no group-wide rate of provision, and provision is made for debts according to local conditions and past default experience.
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 53 50 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 21 12 Amounts written off during the year 10 7 Unused amounts reversed 6 1 Exchange differences 7 1 At 31 December 65 53 The ageing of trade debtors, net of provision for impairment of trade receivables, is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Accrued income 151 164 Not yet due 769 675 1-30 days overdue 125 146 31-60 days overdue 41 40 61-90 days overdue 22 21 91-180 days overdue 22 24 181-365 days overdue 11 11 Over 365 days 5 Net trade debtors and accrued income 1,146 1,081 No additional provision has been made on the above amounts as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the Group believes that the amounts are still recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The proportion of trade debtors at 31 December 2016 that were overdue for payment was 20% 2015: 22%.
The Groups DSO measure days sales outstanding for continuing operations based on revenue from the last 90 days of the year is 46 days 2015: 50 days.
The directors believe that the fair value of trade and other receivables, being the present value of future cash flows, approximates to their book value.
Construction contracts 2016 2015 Notes m m Amounts due from contract customers included in trade and other receivables 23 17 7 Amounts due to contract customers included in trade and other payables 29 3 1 Net balances relating to construction contracts 14 6 Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 198 135 Less: progress billings 184 129 Net balances relating to construction contracts 14 6 At 31 December 2016, advances received from customers for contract work amounted to 14m 2015: 4m, and the value of retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to 5m 2015: 2m.
All trade and other receivables arising from construction contracts are due for settlement within one year.
138 138 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report 25.
Disposal groups classified as held for sale As at 31 December 2016, disposal groups classified as held for sale include the assets and liabilities associated with a number of groupwide operations.
The more material of these operations include the G4S Israel, the Groups Youth Service business in North America and its Childrens Services business in the UK.
At 31 December 2015, disposal groups held for sale included the assets and liabilities associated with certain operations in the Groups Asia Pacific, Middle East & India and Latin America regions.
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Assets Goodwill 50 8 Acquisition-related intangible assets 1 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related 15 17 Other non-current assets 4 Trading investments 7 Inventories 4 3 Trade and other receivables current 62 21 Cash and cash equivalents 8 9 Total assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 151 58 Liabilities Bank overdrafts 1 4 Bank loans 1 1 Trade and other payables 47 17 Current tax liabilities 1 Retirement benefit obligations 1 2 Obligations under finance leases 5 Deferred tax liability 1 Provisions 6 1 Total liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale 58 30 Net assets of disposal groups 93 28 26.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts The Groups Cash Solutions businesses provide a range of cash handling and processing services on behalf of customers.
Certain of those services comprise collection, segregated storage and delivery of customer cash, with title to the cash handled remaining with the customer throughout the process.
Such cash is never recorded in the Groups balance sheet.
A number of other cash processing services are provided to customers, such as the sale and purchase of physical cash balances, and the replenishment of ATMs and similar machines from customer funds held in Group bank accounts.
Such funds, which are generally settled within two working days, are classified as funds within cash processing operations, along with the related balances due to and from customers in respect of unsettled transactions, and are included gross within the relevant balance sheet classifications.
The Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 has been re-presented in respect of such funds within cash processing operations, as follows: 2016 2015 Funds within cash processing operations m m Stocks of money, included within cash and cash equivalents 95 94 Overdraft facilities related to cash processing operations, included within bank overdrafts 22 25 Liabilities to customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade and other payables 83 77 Receivables from customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade and other receivables 10 8 Funds within cash processing operations net Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 139 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts continued Whilst such cash and bank balances are not formally restricted by legal title, they are restricted by the Groups own internal policies such that they cannot be used for the purposes of the Groups own operations.
For the purposes of the Groups Consolidated statement of cash flow, funds within cash processing operations are therefore recorded net of the related balances due to and from customers in respect of unsettled transactions, within cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, and hence have no impact on the Groups statutory cash flow.
A reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year per the Consolidated statement of financial position to the corresponding balances included within the Consolidated statement of cash flow is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated statement of financial position 851 593 Bank overdrafts in the Consolidated statement of financial position 93 122 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts included within disposal groups classified as held for sale 7 5 Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 765 476 Add: Liabilities to customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade and other payables 83 77 Receivables from customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade and other receivables 10 8 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year in the Consolidated statement of cash flow 692 407 Cash and cash equivalents comprise principally short-term money market deposits, current account balances and Group-owned cash held in ATM machines.
At 31 December 2016 cash and cash equivalents earned interest at a weighted-average rate of 0.6% 2015: 0.8%.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because wherever possible, and in accordance with Group Treasury policy, the cash is placed with bank counterparties that hold investment grade credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 has been re-presented to show the impact of adopting the new IFRIC agenda decision issued in April 2016 regarding cash pooling.
This resulted in an increase to cash and cash equivalents and an increase to overdrafts of 56m as at 31 December 2015.
Cash and cash equivalents of 95m 2015: 69m are held by the Groups wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries.
Their use is restricted to the settlement of claims against the Groups captive insurance subsidiaries.
Bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 2016 2015 m m Bank overdrafts 93 122 Bank loans 20 399 Loan notes 2,392 1,774 Total bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 2,505 2,295 The borrowings are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 786 222 In the second year 659 588 In the third to fifth years inclusive 536 1,078 After five years 524 407 Total bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 2,505 2,295 Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities : Bank overdrafts 93 122 Bank loans 16 75 Loan notes 677 25 786 222 Amount due for settlement after 12 months shown under non-current liabilities 1,719 2,073 Loan notes include 675m 2015: 611m of private loan notes and 1,717m 2015: 1,163m of public loan notes.
140 140 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Analysis of bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes by currency is as follows: Sterling Euros US dollars Others Total m m m m m Bank overdrafts 1 10 50 32 93 Bank loans 6 14 20 Loan notes 395 1,366 631 2,392 At 31 December 2016 396 1,376 687 46 2,505 Bank overdrafts 44 10 17 51 122 Bank loans 215 170 14 399 Loan notes 421 812 541 1,774 At 31 December 2015 680 822 728 65 2,295 Of the borrowings in currencies other than sterling, 1,198m 2015: 991m is designated as a net-investment hedge.
The weighted-average interest rates on bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes at 31 December 2016, adjusted for hedging, were as follows: 2016 2015 % % Bank overdrafts 3.8 1.8 Bank loans 1.8 Private loan notes 4.1 3.9 Public loan notes 3.5 4.1 There were no material bank loans in place at 31 December 2016.
At 31 December 2016, the Groups committed bank borrowings comprised a 1bn multi-currency revolving credit facility with 964m maturing in January 2022 and the remainder in January 2021.
At 31 December 2016, this committed facility was undrawn.
Interest on all committed bank borrowing facilities is at prevailing LIBOR or EURIBOR rates with a floor of zero, dependent upon the period of drawdown, plus an agreed margin, and re-priced within one year or less.
Borrowing at floating rates exposes the Group to cash-flow interest rate risk.
The management of this risk is discussed in note 31.
For fair value carrying amount see note 31. b.
Applying foreign exchange rates at 31 December 2016 or hedged foreign exchange rates where applicable.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 141 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes continued The Groups average cost of gross borrowings in 2016, net of interest hedging, was 3.9% 2015: 4.0%.
In November 2016 the Group issued a 500m Eurobond.
The bond matures in January 2023 and pays an annual coupon of 1.5%.
The committed bank facilities and the private loan notes are subject to one financial covenant net debt to EBITDA ratio where EBITDA is calculated as Group PBITA plus depreciation and amortisation of non-acquisition related intangible assets and noncompliance with the covenant may lead to an acceleration of maturity.
The Group complied with the financial covenant throughout the year to 31 December 2016 and the year to 31 December 2015.
The Group has not defaulted on, or breached the terms of, any material loans during the year.
Bank overdrafts, bank loans, the loan notes issued in July 2008 with the exception of 44m, 510m of the loan notes issued in May 2012, 380m of the loan notes issued in December 2012 and the loan notes issued in November 2016 are stated at amortised cost.
The loan notes issued in March 2007, 44m of the loan notes issued in July 2008, the loan notes issued in May 2009, 90m of the loan notes issued in May 2012 and 120m of the loan notes issued in December 2012 are stated at amortised cost but are designated in a fair-value hedge relationship which has a fair-value adjustment in relation to the hedged interest-rate risk.
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of US$50m 41m relating to the loan notes issued in July 2008 have a fair-value mark-tomarket gain of 16m 2015: gain 9m, predominantly resulting from fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an exchange rate of 1.975 and partly from fixing the sterling and US dollar interest rates.
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of 325m 278m relating to the loan notes issued in May 2012 have a fair-value mark-tomarket gain of 12m 2015: loss 26m, predominantly resulting from fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an exchange rate of 1.222 and partly from fixing the sterling and euro interest rates.
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of 350m 299m relating to the loan notes issued in December 2012 have a fair-value mark-to-market gain of 20m 2015: loss 19m, predominantly resulting from fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an exchange rate of 1.233 and partly from fixing the sterling and euro interest rates.
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of 270m 231m relating to the loan notes issued in November 2016 have a fair-value mark-to-market loss of 17m, predominantly resulting from fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an exchange rate of 1.109 and partly from fixing the sterling and euro interest rates.
Obligations under finance leases Present value of Present value of Minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 22 23 20 20 In the second to fifth years inclusive 36 45 35 43 After five years 2 1 2 1 60 69 57 64 Less: future finance charges on finance leases 3 5 Present value of lease obligations 57 64 Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 20 19 Amount due for settlement after 12 months shown under non-current liabilities 37 45 The Group leases certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The weighted-average lease term is six years 2015: seven years.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the weighted-average effective borrowing rate was 5.7% 2015: 6.3%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors charges over the leased assets.
142 142 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report 29.
Trade and other payables 2016 2015 Notes m m Within current liabilities: Trade creditors 252 164 Amounts due to construction contract customers 24 3 1 Other taxation and social security costs 204 172 Holiday pay and other wage-related accruals 373 320 Liabilities to customers in respect of cash processing operations 26 83 77 Other creditors 61 73 Other accruals 203 216 Deferred income 76 66 Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 5 23 Total trade and other payables included within current liabilities 1,260 1,112 Within non-current liabilities: Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 14 38 Other creditors 16 3 Total trade and other payables included within non-current liabilities 30 41 Trade and other payables comprise principally amounts outstanding for trade purchases and on-going costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases for continuing operations is 35 days 2015: 31 days.
Derivative financial instruments The carrying values of derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date are presented below: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Forward foreign-exchange contracts 1 1 Cross-currency swaps designated as cash-flow hedges 48 9 17 45 Interest-rate swaps designated as cash-flow hedges 1 1 Interest-rate swaps designated as fair-value hedges 27 52 12 Commodity swaps 3 76 61 19 61 Less: non-current portion 53 50 14 38 Current portion 23 11 5 23 Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value, measured using techniques consistent with Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are observable for the asset and liability, either directly or indirectly.
The source of the market prices is Bloomberg and in addition the third party relationship counterparty banks.
The relevant currency yield curve is used to forecast the floating-rate cash flows anticipated under the instrument which are discounted back to the balance sheet date.
This value is compared to the original transaction value giving a fair value of the instrument at the balance sheet date.
The mark-to-market valuation of the derivatives has improved by 57m during the year, predominantly as a result of sterling weakness driving up the value of the cross-currency swaps.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 143 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Derivative financial instruments continued The interest-rate, cross-currency, foreign-exchange and commodity swaps treated as cash-flow or net-investment hedges have the following maturities: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Within one year 12 1 4 In the second year 36 26 In the third year 9 19 In the fourth year 1 In the fifth year or greater 17 Total carrying value 48 9 19 49 The projected settlement of cash flows including accrued interest associated with derivatives treated as cash-flow hedges is as follows: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Within one year 16 5 9 In the second year 35 4 22 In the third year 9 4 15 In the fourth year 3 In the fifth year or greater 3 Total cash flows 51 9 19 46 31.
Financial risk Capital management The second extension option in the Groups 1bn multi-currency revolving credit facility was exercised during the year by all but one of the sixteen participant banks, extending the maturity date on 964m of the facility to 7 January 2022.
The remaining 36m matures on 7 January 2021.
The Group issued a new 500m Eurobond in November 2016.
In August 2016, Standard & Poors affirmed the Groups long-term credit rating of BBBnegative.
The Group will continue to manage its capital structure so that it retains an investment grade rating.
The Groups policy is to maintain a net debt to EBITDA ratio of less than 2.5x.
At the end of 2016 the ratio was 2.8x 2015: 3.4x showing progress towards the target, despite sterling falling sharply following the result of the UK referendum on EU membership in June 2016.
At 31 December 2016 the Group had no drawings from its committed 1bn bank facility.
The next debt maturities are US$200m of US Private Placement debt maturing in March 2017 and a 600m Eurobond maturing in May 2017.
Overall the debt portfolio has a medium to long-term debt maturity profile.
The Group is currently well placed to access finance from the debt capital markets and the bank market if required.
Borrowings are principally in sterling, US dollars and Euros reflecting the geographies of significant operational assets and profits.
Liquidity risk The Group mitigates liquidity risk by ensuring there are sufficient undrawn committed facilities available to it.
For more details of the Groups bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes see note 27.
The percentage of available but undrawn committed facilities during the course of the year was as follows: 31 December 2015 25% 31 March 2016 20% 30 June 2016 12% 30 September 2016 19% 31 December 2016 30% To reduce re-financing risk, Group Treasury obtains finance with a range of maturities and hence minimises the impact of a single material source of finance terminating on a single date.
Re-financing risk is further reduced by Group Treasury opening negotiations to either replace or extend any major medium-term facility at least 12 months before its termination date.
144 144 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Maturity profile of loans and borrowings The contractual maturities of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated statement of financial position, including interest payments, estimated based on expectations at the reporting date, are shown, subtotalled by category, below: Total Carrying Fair contractual Within 1 2-5 Over 5 amount value cash flows year years years 31 December 2016 Notes m m m m m m Investments 22 44 44 44 44 Derivative financial instruments interest-rate swaps 30 27 27 49 30 18 1 Derivative financial instruments foreign-exchange forwards 30 1 1 1 175 174 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 72 72 94 75 18 1 Derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 30 48 48 51 296 280 355 320 Financial assets designated as cash-flow hedges 48 48 51 16 35 Net trade receivables and accrued income 23 1,146 1,146 1,146 1,146 Cash and cash equivalents 26 756 756 756 756 Loans and receivables 1,902 1,902 1,902 1,902 Loan notes issued May 2009, 7.75%, maturing 2019 27 351 398 431 27 404 Loan notes issued March 2007, 5.86%-6.06%, maturing 2017-22 27 389 381 420 184 148 88 Financial liabilities designated as fair-value hedges 740 779 851 211 552 88 Derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 30 17 17 17 1 5 14 27 254 254 Derivative financial instruments interest-rate swaps 30 1 1 1 1 Derivative financial instruments foreign-exchange forwards 30 1 1 1 34 35 Financial liabilities designated as cash-flow hedges 19 19 19 5 14 Loan notes issued July 2008, 6.78%-7.56%, maturing 2018-20 27 286 306 334 20 314 Loan notes issued May 2012, 2.875%, maturing 2017 27 513 518 527 527 Loan notes issued December 2012, 2.625%, maturing 2018 27 428 446 450 11 439 Loan notes issued November 2016, 1.5%, maturing 2023 27 425 429 459 6 26 427 Bank loans 27 20 20 20 16 4 Bank overdrafts 27 71 71 71 71 Finance lease liabilities 28 57 57 57 20 37 Trade creditors 29 252 252 252 252 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 2,052 2,099 2,170 923 820 427 44m of July 2008 loan notes, 90m 77m of May 2012 loan notes and 120m 103m of December 2012 loan notes are held in fair-value hedge relationships.
Excluding cash and overdraft balances in respect of cash processing operations see note 26.
Note: In the table above, certain values are presented gross, to show both the asset and the liability.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 145 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Financial risk continued Total Carrying Fair contractual Within 1 2-5 Over 5 amount value cash flows year years years 31 December 2015 Notes m m m m m m Investments 22 49 49 49 49 Derivative financial instruments interest-rate swaps 30 40 40 61 19 39 3 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 89 89 110 68 39 3 Derivative financial instruments foreign-exchange forwards 30 5 5 Derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 30 9 9 9 2 2 37 28 Financial assets designated as cash-flow hedges 9 9 9 9 Net trade receivables and accrued income 23 1,081 1,081 1,081 1,081 Cash and cash equivalents 26 499 499 499 499 Loans and receivables 1,580 1,580 1,580 1,580 Loan notes issued May 2009, 7.75%, maturing 2019 27 352 404 459 27 432 Loan notes issued March 2007, 5.86%-6.06%, maturing 2017-22 27 339 329 366 18 270 78 Financial liabilities designated as fair-value hedges 691 733 825 45 702 78 Derivative financial instruments cross-currency swaps 30 45 45 43 14 19 534 572 Derivative financial instruments interest-rate swaps 30 1 1 1 1 Derivative financial instruments commodity swaps 30 3 3 3 3 Financial liabilities designated as cash-flow hedges 49 49 47 9 38 Loan notes issued July 2008, 6.78%-7.56%, maturing 2016-20 27 272 300 332 44 288 Loan notes issued May 2012, 2.875%, maturing 2017 27 442 456 468 13 455 Loan notes issued December 2012, 2.625%, maturing 2018 27 369 388 398 10 388 Bank loans 27 399 399 399 75 324 Bank overdrafts 27 97 97 97 97 Finance lease liabilities 28 64 64 64 19 45 Trade creditors 29 164 164 164 164 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 1,807 1,868 1,922 422 1,500 44m of July 2008 loan notes, 90m 66m of May 2012 loan notes and 120m 89m of December 2012 loan notes were held in fair value hedge relationships.
The gross cash flows disclosed in the tables above represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes and which are usually not closed out before contractual maturity.
The disclosure shows the net cash-flow amount for derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash inflow and outflow amounts for derivatives that have simultaneous gross cash settlement e. g. forward-exchange contracts.
146 146 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Market risk Currency risk and forward foreign-exchange contracts The Group conducts business in many currencies.
Transaction risk is limited since, wherever possible, each business operates and conducts its financing activities in local currency.
However, the Group presents its consolidated financial statements in sterling and it is in consequence subject to foreign-exchange risk due to the translation of the results and net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
Treasury policy is to manage significant translation risks in respect of net operating assets and its consolidated net debt EBITDA ratio by holding foreign currency denominated loans where possible and to a lesser extent  transactions.
The Group has hedged a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations in the translation into sterling of its overseas net assets through these instruments.
Translation adjustments arising on the translation of foreign currency loans and the  transactions meeting hedge accounting criteria are recognised in equity to match translation adjustments on foreign currency equity investments as they qualify as net-investment hedges with no residual impact to equity.
At 31 December 2016 short-dated  transactions which did not meet hedge accounting criteria were in place.
These transactions mature on 3 January 2017, have a nominal value of 175m, and a mark-to-market fair value gain of 1m.
This mark-to-market gain was recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
At 31 December 2016, the Groups US dollar and Euro net assets were approximately 80% and 93% respectively hedged by foreign currency loans and  transactions 2015: US dollar 83%, Euro 90%.
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of 25m are in place hedging the foreign currency risk on US$50m of the second US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.9750.
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of 266m were arranged to hedge the foreign currency risk on 325m of the Euro public notes issued in May 2012, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.2217.
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of 284m were arranged to hedge the foreign currency risk on 350m of the Euro public notes issued in December 2012, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.2332.
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of 244m were arranged to hedge the foreign currency risk on 270m of the Euro public notes issued in November 2016, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.1088.
Assuming the 2016 US dollar and the Euro foreign exchange rate market movements against sterling in 2015 were repeated in 2016, the fair value net gain on the cross-currency swaps which hedge part of the currency loan notes would be expected to increase by 99m.
Interest-rate risk and interest-rate swaps Much of the Groups debt is issued at fixed rate, but to the extent there is borrowing at floating rates as described in note 27, the Group is exposed to cash-flow interest-rate risk, which the Group manages within policy limits approved by the directors.
Interest-rate swaps and, to a limited extent, forward-rate agreements are utilised to fix the interest rate on a proportion of borrowings on a reducing scale over forward periods up to a maximum of five years.
At 31 December 2016 the nominal value of such contracts was nil in respect of US dollar 2015: 109m and 60m in respect of Euro 2015: 52m : their weighted-average interest rate was 0.6% Euro 2015: 0.6% Euro, 1.3% US dollar, and their weighted-average period to maturity was three years four months 2015: two years.
All the interest-rate hedging instruments are designated and fully effective as cash-flow hedges and movements in their fair value have been deferred in equity.
The US Private Placement market is predominantly a fixed-rate market, with investors preferring a fixed-rate return over the life of the loan notes.
At the time of the first issue in March 2007, the Group was comfortable with the proportion of floating rate exposure not hedged by interest-rate swaps and therefore rather than take on a higher proportion of fixed-rate debt arranged fixed to floating swaps effectively converting the fixed coupon on the Private Placement to a floating rate.
Following the swaps the resulting average coupon on the US Private Placement is LIBOR 60bps.
These swaps have been documented as fair value hedges of the US Private Placement fixed interest loan notes, with the movements in their fair value recognised in the Consolidated income statement at the same time as the movement in the fair value of the hedged item.
The interest on the US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008, the sterling public notes issued in May 2009, 510m of the Euro public notes issued in May 2012, 380m of the Euro public notes issued in December 2012 and the Euro public notes issued in November 2016 was initially kept at fixed rate.
In April 2014, the interest rate on 44m of the US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008 and on all the GBP public notes issued in May 2009 was swapped from fixed to floating for a period of three years using derivatives.
All four public notes have a coupon step up of 1.25% which is triggered should the credit rating of G4S plc fall below investment grade.
The core group borrowings are held in US dollars, Euros and sterling.
Although the impact of rising interest rates is largely shielded by fixed-rate loans and interest-rate swaps which provide certainty on the vast majority of the exposure, some interest-rate risk remains.
A 1% increase in interest rates across the yield curve in each of these currencies with the 31 December 2016 debt position constant throughout 2017, would lead to an expectation of an additional interest charge of 10m in the 2017 financial year.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 147 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Financial risk continued Commodity risk and commodity swaps The Groups principal commodity risk relates to the fluctuating level of diesel prices, particularly affecting its Cash Solutions businesses.
Commodity swaps and commodity options are on occasions used to fix synthetically part of the exposure and reduce the associated cost volatility.
The hedging programme is under evaluation and as a consequence there was no commodity hedging in place at 31 December 2016.
Counterparty credit risk The Groups strategy for credit risk management is to set minimum credit ratings for counterparties and monitor these on a regular basis.
For treasury-related transactions, the policy limits the aggregate credit risk assigned to a counterparty.
The utilisation of a credit limit is calculated by applying a weighting to the notional value of each transaction outstanding with each counterparty based on the type and duration of the transaction.
The total mark-to-market value outstanding with each counterparty is also closely monitored against policy limits assigned to each counterparty.
For short-term transactions under one year, at inception of the transaction, the financial counterparty must be investment grade rated by either the Standard & Poors or Moodys rating agencies.
For long-term transactions, at inception of the transaction, unless otherwise approved, the financial counterparty must have a minimum rating of BBB Baa1 from Standard & Poors or Moodys.
Treasury transactions are dealt with through the Groups relationship banks, all of which have a strong investment grade rating.
At 31 December 2016 the largest two counterparty exposures related to treasury transactions were 22m and 16m and both were held with institutions with a long-term Standard & Poors credit rating of A.
These exposures represent 29% and 21% of the carrying values of the treasury transactions, with a fair value gain at the balance sheet date.
Both of these banks had significant loan commitments outstanding to G4S plc at 31 December 2016.
The Group operates a multi-currency notional pooling cash management system with a wholly-owned subsidiary of an A-rated bank.
At year end, credit balances of 135m were pooled with debit balances of 59m, resulting in a net pool credit balance of 76m.
There is a legal right of set-off under the pooling agreement and an overdraft facility of 3m.
Following the IFRS IC IFRIC agenda decision issued in April 2016 regarding cash pooling, the cash and overdraft balances in the cash pool are represented gross in the Consolidated statement of financial position.
At an operating level the minimum investment grade rating criteria applies.
Exceptionally, where required by local country circumstances, counterparties with no rating or a non-investment grade rating can be approved as counterparties for a period of up to 12 months.
Due to the Groups global geographical footprint and exposure to multiple industries, there is minimal concentration risk.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a wide range of retirement benefit arrangements which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
These include funded defined contribution, multi-employer and funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes.
Defined contribution arrangements The majority of the retirement benefit arrangements operated by the Group are of a defined contribution structure, where the employer contribution and resulting income statement charge is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees pay.
Contributions made to defined contribution schemes in 2016 and charged to the Consolidated income statement totalled 77m 2015: 96m.
In the UK, following the closure of the defined benefit schemes to new entrants in 2004, the main scheme for new employees is a contracted-in defined contribution scheme.
Multi-employer arrangement In the Netherlands, most employees are members of the Security Industry Wide Pension Fund IWPF.
This is a career-average defined benefit plan.
Pensionable salary is subject to a cap, and minus an offset that reflects social security levels.
Withdrawal from the scheme is only possible under certain strict conditions determined by Dutch law and by the pension fund board of the IWPF.
The plan is funded by a premium that is set by the IWPF board in line with the financing rules that state that the premium should cover the cost of the annual accrual of pension benefits.
Historically, the premium has been 30% of pensionable salaries and the employer pays 60% of this premium and the employees the remaining 40%.
The financing rules specify that an employer is not obliged to pay any further premiums in respect of previously accrued benefits.
This means that in case of insufficient funding, the benefits of participants could, in theory, be reduced.
The current solvency ratio is 95.0% December 2016.
The required solvency ratio according to Dutch law is 124.3% as at 31 December 2016.
Should a surplus appear within the scheme the board will decide if a reduction in premium is possible although this would only be possible at much higher solvency levels.
Premiums paid to the scheme by the Group and charged to the Consolidated income statement in 2016 totalled 5m 2015: 7m.
The estimated premium expected to be paid to the scheme during the financial year commencing 1 January 2017 in respect of the on-going accrual of benefits is approximately 5m.
The scheme is not accounted for as a defined benefit scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits as it is not possible to identify the Groups share of the schemes assets and liabilities.
As a result, and in line with general practice for such schemes, the scheme is accounted for as if it were a defined contribution scheme under IAS 19.
148 148 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report The Netherlands Cash Solutions Pension Plan the Cash Solutions scheme is a separate scheme operated by the Group but is required to provide benefits at least equivalent to the IWPF, and in particular pension increases in payment and deferment, as well as revaluation of active members rights in the Cash Solutions scheme have to follow the multi-employer scheme which applies a conditional approach.
At the end of December 2015, liability for future pension accrual in respect of the Cash Solutions scheme was transferred to the IWPF, resulting in a curtailment gain of 5m.
Past service accruals remained with the Cash Solutions scheme the scheme is insured so longevity risk on the base level of insured pension that is before increases is carried by the insurer, and any bonuses from the insurers returns may defray the cost of pension increases.
Accordingly, there is a counterparty risk against the insurer.
Defined benefit arrangements The Group operates several funded defined retirement benefit schemes where the benefits are based on employees length of service.
Whilst the Groups primary scheme is in the UK, it also operates the Cash Solutions scheme in the Netherlands and other less material plans elsewhere.
Under funded arrangements, the assets of defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds or similar structures in the countries concerned.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement in relation to the material funded schemes are included within the following categories: 2016 2015 m m Cost of sales 4 7 Administration expenses 2 2 Specific items credit 5 Net finance costs 7 9 Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 13 13 The 5m specific item credit in 2015 relates to the curtailment gain on the transfer of the future pension accrual of the Netherlands Cash Solutions scheme to the Security Industry Wide Fund.
There are also various less material unfunded arrangements, for which the Group does not hold related assets separate from the Group.
In aggregate, other unfunded arrangements incurred nil 2015: 1m of costs within cost of sales, and 3m 2015: 3m within finance costs, and recognised a 5m 2015: 3m actuarial loss within other comprehensive income.
The defined benefit obligations DBO and assets for defined benefit schemes are as follows: DBO Assets Deficit surplus 2016 m m m UK sections: Securicor 1,957 1,655 302 Group 4 430 337 93 GSL 272 347 75 Total UK 2,659 2,339 320 Netherlands 81 60 21 Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 2,740 2,399 341 Total provision for unfunded and other funded defined benefit schemes 96 Total provision for all defined benefit schemes 437 DBO Assets Deficit surplus 2015 m m m UK sections: Securicor 1,642 1,448 194 Group 4 362 291 71 GSL 214 290 76 Total UK 2,218 2,029 189 Netherlands 63 47 16 Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 2,281 2,076 205 Total provision for unfunded and other funded defined benefit schemes 74 Total provision for all defined benefit schemes 279 Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 149 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued UK defined benefit scheme The defined benefit scheme in the UK accounts for 94% 2015: 92% of the net balance sheet liability for material funded defined retirement benefit schemes.
It comprises three sections: the Group 4 section which is the pension scheme demerged from the former Group 4 Falck A S, the Securicor section, for which the Group assumed responsibility on 20 July 2004 with the acquisition of Securicor plc, and the GSL section, for which the Group assumed responsibility on 12 May 2008 with the acquisition of GSL.
The UK scheme is closed to future accrual apart from some sub-sections of the GSL section, and for most members defines the pension based on final salary.
Certain sub-sections of the GSL section have historically remained open to provide a facility to accept former public-sector employees who join the Group through outsourcings.
In the Group 4 and Securicor sections, members retain their link to final salary where appropriate on their benefits accrued up to closure in 2011.
As at the latest actuarial funding valuation the participants of the UK pension scheme sections can be analysed as follows: GSL Group 4 Securicor At 5 April 2015 section section section Total Active participants Number 607 607 Average age N A 49.0 N A 49.0 Deferred participants Number 3,653 1,236 8,535 13,424 Average age 52.0 51.0 53.0 52.5 Pensioner participants Number 3,346 883 9,551 13,780 Average age 71.0 65.0 69.0 69.2 There is a mix of fixed and inflation-dependent pension increases in payment and deferment which vary from member to member according to their membership history and the section of the scheme.
The discounted weighted-average duration of the accrued liabilities of the sections are respectively 17 years Group 4 section, 20 years GSL section and 18 years Securicor section.
As at 31 December 2015 the discounted weighted-average duration of the accrued liabilities of the sections were 16 years Group 4 section, 18 years GSL section and 17 years Securicor section.
The scheme is set up under UK law and governed by a Trustee company which is responsible for the schemes investments, administration and management.
The Board of the Trustee company is comprised of an independent chairman and further independent, Group and scheme membership representatives.
The current schedule of deficit recovery contributions provides for a contribution of approximately 40m during 2017.
In addition, the Company has pledged a share of any material disposal proceeds to the pension scheme to be shared in the same proportion as the pension scheme deficit bears to overall group indebtedness and has agreed that additional contributions would be made in the event that the average annual dividend payment to ordinary shareholders over the three financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018 exceeds a certain threshold or in the event that the Company makes a significant special dividend payment or equivalent capital return, to its ordinary shareholders over the same period.
A funding valuation is carried out for the schemes Trustee every three years by an independent firm of actuaries.
Depending on the outcome of that valuation a schedule of future contributions is negotiated: the Group has guaranteed any contributions due from its subsidiaries.
Following completion of the latest triennial valuation process, the G4S pension trustees agreed during the year a reduced annual pension deficit payment of 39m 2015: 44m, with a 3% per annum increase until the next funding valuation due in 2018.
The Group has concluded that it should allow for a refund of any residual surplus in all three sections of the UK Scheme after all benefits have been paid.
Therefore no adjustments for asset ceiling or additional liabilities under the IFRIC 14 interpretation are made.
At present the GSL section has a surplus and the other two sections have deficits.
The IASB is proposing to amend IFRIC 14 and the Group will assess if there are any implications once the final form of the revised interpretation is clarified.
Expected contributions The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the UK schemes during the financial year commencing 1 January 2017 in respect of the on-going accrual of benefits is approximately 4m and it is anticipated that it will remain at a similar level in the medium term subject to changes in financial conditions.
Principal risks The Groups pension schemes create a number of risk exposures.
Annual increases in benefits are, to a varying extent from scheme to scheme, dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable are future inflation levels including the impact of inflation on future salary increases and the actual longevity of the membership.
Benefits payable will also be influenced by a range of other factors including member decisions on matters such as when to retire and the possibility to draw benefits in different forms.
150 150 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Principal risks A key risk is that additional contributions are required if the investment returns fall short of those anticipated when setting the contributions to the pension plans.
For the UK funding valuation those assumed investment returns for funding valuations are set based on fixed margins over the LIBOR swap curve.
The management of the pension fund assets has been delegated to an asset manager, who manages the assets against a liability benchmark.
The key parameters of this mandate can be summarised as follows: An asset mix which is managed dynamically over time rather than a set strategic allocation Interest rate and inflation risk is managed with the benchmark of hedging 100% of these risks as a percentage of the asset value through the use of debt instruments government bonds and derivatives Currency risk is managed with the objective of hedging at least 70% of the overseas currency exposure in the portfolio through the use of forward foreign currency contracts All pension schemes are regulated by the relevant jurisdictions.
These include extensive legislation and regulatory mechanisms that are subject to change and may impact the Groups pension schemes.
Regarding financial reporting measures, the IAS 19 liability measurement DBO and the service cost are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions made on a range of demographic and financial matters that are used to project the expected benefit payments, the most important of these assumptions being about future inflation and salary growth levels and the assumptions made about life expectation.
The DBO and service cost are also very sensitive to the IAS 19 discount rate, which determines the discounted value of the projected benefit payments.
The discount rate depends on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds.
Investment strategies are set with funding rather than IAS 19 considerations in mind and do not seek to provide a specific hedge against the IAS 19 measurement of liabilities.
As a result the difference between the market value of the assets and the IAS 19 liabilities may be volatile.
Assumptions and sensitivities The weighted averages for each of the principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows: UK Netherlands Key assumptions used at 31 December 2016 Discount rate 2.5% 2.0% Expected rate of salary increases 3.4% N A Pension increases in payment for the UK, at RPI with a limit of 5% p. a.
3.1% 0.8% Inflation 3.3% 1.9% Key assumptions used at 31 December 2015 Discount rate 3.8% 2.4% Expected rate of salary increases 3.2% 1.9% Pension increases in payment for the UK, at RPI with a limit of 5% p. a.
IAS 19 specifies that pension liabilities should be discounted at appropriate high quality corporate bond rates.
The Group considers that it is appropriate to consider AA-rated corporate bonds as high quality and has therefore used discount rates based on yields on such bonds corresponding to the liability profile of the respective schemes.
The effect of a movement in the discount rate applicable in the UK alters reported liabilities before associated deferred tax adjustments by approximately the amounts shown in the table below: Increase decrease in the Increase decrease in the DBO of the UK scheme DBO of the UK scheme 2016 2015 Sensitivity analysis m m Discount rate assumption being 0.5% higher 221 165 Discount rate assumption being 0.5% lower 243 188 The effect of a movement in RPI inflation applicable in the UK alters reported liabilities before associated deferred tax adjustments by approximately the amounts shown in the table below: Increase decrease in the Increase decrease in the DBO of the UK scheme DBO of the UK scheme 2016 2015 Sensitivity analysis m m Inflation assumption being 0.5% higher 92 71 Inflation assumption being 0.5% lower 85 73 The above sensitivities allow for inflation-dependent assumptions such as salary growth and relevant pension increases to vary corresponding to the inflation assumption variation.
Due to the caps and floors on pension increases a certain movement in the inflation assumption will not generally result in the same movement in the pension increase assumption.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 151 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued In addition to the above, the Group uses appropriate mortality assumptions when calculating the schemes obligations.
The mortality tables used for the scheme in the UK are: Birth year table S2P[M F]A Base with future improvements in line with CMI 2015 Core projections, based on a long-term improvement rate of 1.25% p. a. and allowing for individual scaling factors based on the mortality analysis carried out as part of the last funding valuation.
The resulting assumed life expectancy of a male member of the UK schemes currently aged 65 is 21 years.
The assumed life expectancy at 65 of a male currently aged 52 is 22 years.
At those ages, the assumed life expectancy for a female member is between two and three years longer than for a male member.
The effect of a one-year change in this UK life expectancy assumption is to alter reported liabilities before associated deferred tax adjustments by approximately 137m 2015: 93m.
The selection of these movements to illustrate the sensitivity of the DBO to key assumptions should not be interpreted as the Group expressing any specific view of the probability of such movements happening.
The amounts recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of the material funded defined benefit schemes and in the various components of income, OCI and cash flow are as follows: DBO Assets Provision 2016 m m m Amounts recognised on the balance sheet at the beginning of the year 2,281 2,076 205 Amounts recognised in income: Current service cost 4 4 Interest on obligations and assets 85 78 7 Administration costs paid from plan assets 2 2 Total amounts recognised in income 91 78 13 Re-measurements: Actuarial loss change in financial assumptions 545 545 Actuarial gain change in demographic assumptions 81 81 Actuarial gain experience 23 23 Return on assets in excess of interest 277 277 Re-measurement effects recognised in OCI 441 277 164 Cash: Employer contributions 43 43 Benefits paid from plan assets 83 83 Net cash 83 40 43 Other: Impact of exchange rates 10 8 2 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet at the end of the year 2,740 2,399 341 Total re-measurements recognised in OCI of 169m are shown net of re-measurements relating to other unfunded schemes of 5m.
152 152 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report DBO Assets Provision 2015 m m m Amounts recognised on the balance sheet at the beginning of the year 2,304 2,040 264 Amounts recognised in income: Current service cost 7 7 Curtailment gain 5 5 Interest on obligations and assets 83 74 9 Administration costs paid from plan assets 2 2 Total amounts recognised in income 87 74 13 Re-measurements: Actuarial gain change in financial assumptions 18 18 Actuarial loss change in demographic assumptions 34 34 Actuarial gain experience 34 34 Return on assets in excess of interest 3 3 Re-measurement effects recognised in OCI 18 3 21 Cash: Employer contributions 50 50 Employee contributions 2 2 Benefits paid from plan assets 81 81 Net cash 79 29 50 Other: Impact of exchange rates 4 3 1 Transfers to immaterial schemes 9 9 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet at the end of the year 2,281 2,076 205 Total re-measurements recognised in OCI of 18m are shown net of re-measurements relating to other unfunded schemes of 3m.
Employer contributions in 2016 included 39m 2015: 44m of additional contributions in respect of the deficit in the UK schemes.
The composition of the scheme assets at the reporting date is as follows: UK Netherlands Total 2016 m m m Equity 747 11 758 Government bonds 237 39 276 Other 1,355 10 1,365 Total 2,339 60 2,399 UK Netherlands Total 2015 m m m Equity 648 8 656 Government bonds 254 33 287 Other 1,127 6 1,133 Total 2,029 47 2,076 Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 153 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued A more granular, approximate split of assets of the UK scheme at 31 December 2016 is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Equity 628 574 Private equity 119 74 Government bonds 237 254 Credit 51 226 Property 71 65 Macro-orientated 339 319 Multi-strategy 217 104 Derivatives 412 123 Cash and cash equivalents 265 290 Total UK assets 2,339 2,029 A much greater part of the UK assets are now categorised as multi-strategy as they are now held in a pooled fund structure, which is a multi-asset fund investing across all asset classes.
Within the UK pension fund, the Equity, Credit, Macro-orientated and Multi-strategy sub-categories consist of pooled vehicles investing predominantly in assets with quoted prices in active markets.
All government bonds are issued by the UK government and have quoted prices in active markets.
Other UK investments are predominantly unquoted.
Derivatives include a range of interest-rate and inflation-linked swaps, forward-currency contracts, equity-index total return swaps, equity options, and futures.
Investing in interest-rate and inflation-linked swaps is designed to mitigate the impact of future changes in interest rates and inflation.
None of the pension scheme assets are held in the Groups own financial instruments or in any assets held or used by the Group.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Onerous Employee customer Property benefits Restructuring Claims contracts and other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 19 14 100 83 26 242 Additional provision in the year 5 14 28 6 27 80 Utilisation of provision 3 20 35 16 14 88 Transferred to held for sale 1 4 1 6 Re-classifications 2 4 6 5 25 8 Unused amounts reversed 1 1 1 5 8 Exchange differences 2 2 14 1 1 20 At 31 December 2016 19 5 96 69 59 248 Included in current liabilities 116 Included in non-current liabilities 132 248 Judgment is required in quantifying the Group's provisions, especially in connection with claims and onerous customer contracts, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates where the ultimate outcome may be different to the amount provided.
Each of these provisions reflects the Group's best estimate of the probable exposure at 31 December 2016 and this assessment has been made having considered the sensitivity of each provision to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
The Group is satisfied that it is unlikely that changes in these key assumptions will have a material impact on the Group's overall provisioning position in the next 12 months.
Employee benefits The provision for employee benefits is in respect of any employee benefits which accrue over the working lives of the employees, typically including items such as long service awards and termination indemnity schemes.
The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits other than retirement benefits represents the present value of the future benefit that employees have earned at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of scheme assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
154 154 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Restructuring Restructuring provisions include amounts for redundancy payments, and the costs of closure of activities in acquired businesses and discontinued operations.
Settlement of restructuring provisions is highly probable.
The timing is uncertain but is generally likely to be short term.
In the year the Group incurred restructuring costs of 12m 2015: 44m within specific items relating to the multi-year strategic productivity programme across the Group.
In addition, the Group incurred non-strategic reorganisation costs of 9m 2015: 10m which are included within PBITA.
Claims Claims provisions represent any outstanding litigation claims against the Group that are likely to lead to the outflow of funds in the future, including provisions within the captive insurance companies to cover where appropriate anticipated claims incurred as at the balance sheet date, based on actuarial assessments to calculate the liabilities.
The claims reserves are held by the Groups wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries in Guernsey and the US which underwrite part of the Groups Cash Solutions, general liability, workers compensation and auto liability policies.
In the year the Group provided 20m 2015: 16m in relation to these claims.
The provisions are subject to regular actuarial review and are adjusted as appropriate.
Settlement of these provisions is highly probable but both the value of the final settlements and their timing is uncertain, dependent upon the outcome of on-going processes to determine both liability and quantum in respect of a wide range of claims or possible claims.
Onerous customer contracts Under the UK Compass asylum seeker contract with the Home Office, the Group provides accommodation, transportation and subsistence services for asylum seekers whilst their claims are being processed.
This contract commenced in 2012 and initially ran to 1 September 2017, with a potential extension of a further two years.
In 2014, an onerous contract provision was recognised in relation to the then-current assumptions regarding asylum seeker numbers, the duration and cost of accommodation and support services.
The Compass provision was updated in December 2015 to reflect the estimated increase in asylum seekers assigned to the Group, the availability of suitable accommodation approved by local authorities and the speed of processing of applications by the immigration authority.
On 8 December 2016 the Group announced an extension to the Compass contract up to August 2019.
Additional onerous contract provisions of a net 4m, primarily in respect of the Compass contract, were recognised as specific items in the year together with 2m in respect of the closure of the systems business in Latin America included within net profit on disposal closure of subsidiaries.
The other principal onerous contract provision relates to a previously identified PFI contract entered into in 2005 and is subject to on-going discussions with the customer.
A best estimate has been made based on a range of possible outcomes including a commercial or dispute resolution process.
Net unwinding of discounts charged was not material.
Property and other Included within property and other provisions are future liabilities for all properties sub-let at a shortfall, for the cost of replacing assets where there is a present contractual requirement, for long-term idle, leased properties and for customer claims on contracts that are related to the performance on a contract but do not form part of onerous customer contract provisions.
Whilst the likelihood of settlement of these obligations is considered probable, there is uncertainty over their value and duration.
Included in property and other provisions are contract-related provisions of 43m 2015: 14m and onerous property lease provisions of 16m 2015: 12m.
Contingent liabilities The Group is involved in disputes in a number of countries, mainly related to activities incidental to its operations.
Currently there are a number of such disputes open in relation to the application of local labour law, commercial agreements with customers and subcontractors and claims and compliance matters, in some cases in the course of litigation.
Where, based on legal counsel advice, the Group estimates that it is probable that the dispute will result in an outflow of economic resources, provision is made based on the best estimate of the likely financial outcome.
Where a reliable estimate cannot be made, or where the Group, based on legal counsel advice, considers that it is not probable that there will be an outflow of economic resources, no provision is recognised.
In this regard, the Group is party to a number of on-going litigation processes in relation to interpretation of local labour law and regulations in a number of countries, and where it is expected that these matters will not be resolved in the near future.
At this stage, the Group's view is that these cases will either be resolved in a manner favourable to the interests of the Group or, due to the nature and complexity of the cases, it is not possible to estimate the potential economic exposure.
In addition, in the ordinary course of business, other contingent liabilities exist where the Group is subject to commercial claims and litigation from a range of parties in respect of contracts, agreements, regulatory and compliance matters, none of which are expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 155 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year: Retirement Other benefit Intangible temporary obligations assets Tax losses differences Total m m m m m At 1 January 2016 45 3 51 85 178 Credit charge to the income statement 4 35 5 34 Disposal of subsidiaries 2 2 Credit to equity 23 22 45 Exchange differences 2 14 16 Transfers and re-classifications 1 1 At 31 December 2016 69 1 110 92 272 At 1 January 2015 64 7 41 75 173 Charge credit to the income statement 7 6 10 5 14 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Charge credit to equity 12 3 9 Exchange differences 2 2 Transfers and re-classifications 3 3 At 31 December 2015 45 3 51 85 178 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where permitted.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset : 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax liabilities 14 9 Deferred tax assets 285 187 Net deferred tax asset included in assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 1 Net deferred tax balance 272 178 At 31 December 2016, the Group had unutilised tax losses of approximately 842m 2015: 813m potentially available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 110m 2015: 51m has been recognised in respect of approximately 529m 2015: 263m of gross losses based on profitability from approved budgets and business plans.
The recognition of additional deferred tax assets on tax losses during the period is predicated on the projected generation of material streams of income in certain group companies, which should result in the utilisation of available tax losses within a foreseeable period.
These income streams are driven by the current and future global results of the Group in line with business plans.
The timing of recognition of the tax losses as additional deferred tax assets in 2016 is supported by the improved taxable profit profile of the relevant group companies, which itself is underpinned by the continuing progress of the Groups transformation strategy to generate future sustainable, profitable growth.
As part of these losses was due to items originally allocated to equity, the related deferred tax movement is also allocated to equity.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 313m 2015: 550m of gross losses due to the unpredictability and availability of future profit streams in the relevant jurisdictions, and the fact that a significant proportion of such losses remains unaudited by the relevant tax authorities.
In certain cases, there are continuing structural issues which prevent the utilisation of losses within the foreseeable future.
Losses which will never be utilised, for example due to the operation of statute, are not included in the above figures.
Approximately 80m 2015: 414m of the gross unrecognised losses relate to the UK group.
Utilisation of such losses is dependent upon the profitability of particular trading and corporate entities.
The financial projections used in assessing the future profitability are consistent with those used in assessing the carrying value of goodwill as set out in note 18.
The utilisation of these losses will occur at different rates due to the incidence and timing of profits within these entities, which consequently impacts their recognition as deferred tax assets.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are gross losses of 40m 2015: 38m which will expire between 2017 and 2026.
Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2016, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of non-UK subsidiaries and joint ventures on which temporary differences may exist was 1,646m 2015: 1,334m.
A deferred tax liability of 3m 2015: 3m has been recognised on undistributed earnings, based on expected distributions from such subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Other temporary differences vary by country and include items relating to the local tax treatment of fixed assets, employee benefits, and provisions.
156 156 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report 35.
Other reserves Hedging Translation Merger Reserve for Total other reserve reserve reserve own shares reserves m m m m m At 1 January 2016 3 210 426 18 201 Total comprehensive loss income attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 3 253 250 Own shares awarded 5 5 At 31 December 2016 43 426 13 456 At 1 January 2015 1 113 426 18 296 Total comprehensive income loss attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 2 97 95 At 31 December 2015 3 210 426 18 201 Other reserves include: Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash-flow instruments related to the hedged transactions that have not yet occurred net of tax.
The amount recognised in the hedging reserve includes a fair-value gain on hedging instruments of 69m 2015: 42m loss and a loss of 73m 2015: 44m gain.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations net of tax.
Merger reserve The merger reserve comprises reserves arising upon the merger between the former Group 4 Falck A S and the former Group 4 Securitas BV in 2000 and the acquisition of Securicor plc by the Group in 2004.
In accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 the 308m premium on ordinary shares issued in the Groups 9.99% share placement in August 2013 was initially recorded in the merger reserve, and has subsequently been transferred to retained earnings.
Reserve for own shares An employee benefit trust established by the Group held 4,844,243 shares at 31 December 2016 2015: 6,320,144 shares to satisfy the vesting of awards under the performance share plan and performance-related schemes.
During the year no shares 2015: no shares were purchased by the trust, whilst 1,475,901 shares 2015: 88,306 shares were used to satisfy the vesting of awards under the schemes.
Shares held by the trust are treated as treasury shares, are deducted from equity, do not receive dividends and are excluded from the calculations of earnings per share.
Distributable reserves As at 31 December 2016 the parent company of the Group had distributable reserves of 918m 2015: 1,078m.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 157 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 37.
Analysis of net debt A reconciliation of net debt to amounts in the Consolidated statement of financial position is presented below: 2016 2015 m m Cash and cash equivalents 851 593 Receivables from customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade and other receivables 10 8 Net cash and overdrafts included within net assets of disposal groups held for sale 7 5 Bank overdrafts 93 122 Liabilities to customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade and other payables 83 77 Total group cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 692 407 Investments 44 49 Net debt excluding cash and overdrafts included within net assets of disposal groups held for sale 6 6 Bank loans 20 399 Loan notes 2,392 1,774 Obligations under finance leases 57 64 Fair value of loan note derivative financial instruments 57 5 Total net debt 1,670 1,782 An analysis of movements in net debt in the year is presented below: 2016 2015 m m Increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts per Consolidated statement of cash flow 198 27 Sale purchase of investments 7 1 Net decrease increase in borrowings 11 139 Repayment of finance leases 22 31 Decrease increase in net debt resulting from cash flows 224 80 New finance leases 7 27 Net debt in disposed entities 5 Net decrease increase in net debt 222 107 Exchange differences 110 36 Net debt at the beginning of the year 1,782 1,639 Net debt at the end of the year 1,670 1,782 38.
Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessee As at 31 December 2016, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 104 107 In the second to fifth years inclusive 272 216 After five years 110 125 Total operating lease commitments 486 448 The Group leases a number of its office properties, vehicles and other operating equipment under operating leases.
Property leases are negotiated over an average term of around ten years, at rates reflective of market rentals.
Periodic rent reviews take place to bring lease rentals into line with prevailing market conditions.
Some, but not all, lease agreements have an option to renew the lease at the end of the lease term.
Leased vehicles and other operating equipment are negotiated over an average lease term of four years.
158 158 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report 39.
Share-based payments Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP In June 2014 a new LTIP replaced the previous performance share plans.
Shares allocated under the Groups LTIP are subject to performance conditions and forfeitures, as detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 78.
Under the Groups LTIP, Relative Total Shareholder Return a market performance condition constitutes 30% 2015: 30% of the performance criteria and is measured over three financial years.
The Relative Total Shareholder Return is measured against a comparator group of selected relevant companies.
25% of this element of the award vests upon the Groups Total Shareholder Return being ranked median against the comparator group.
The fair value of the shares awarded which is subject to this market performance condition has therefore been reduced by 75%.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP and Restricted Share Plan RSP Shares allocated under the Groups DBSP and RSP are not subject to further financial performance conditions, but in both cases, are subject to forfeitures, either in part or in full, subject to continued employment, unless deemed as a good leaver by the Remuneration Committee.
Share awards under the RSP were granted in 2016 for the first time.
Share-based payment plans information All three share plans have a three-year vesting period from their dates of grant.
The weighted-average share price at the date of allocation of shares allocated conditionally during the year was 185.2p 2015: 290.0p and the contractual life of all conditional allocations was three years.
The weighted-average share price at the date of exercise for the shares exercised during the year was 196.3p 2015: 278.9p.
The Consolidated income statement is charged with an estimate for the vesting of shares awarded conditionally and subject to non-market performance conditions.
The charge for 2016 was 13m 2015: 8m, out of which 10m 2015: 7m arose from equity-settled share-based payments.
The total carrying amount for the liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions is 6m 2015: 3m.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 159 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 40.
Related party transactions Transactions and balances with joint ventures Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
All transactions with related parties are entered into in the normal course of business.
Transactions with joint ventures included revenue recorded of 49m 2015: 48m.
Amounts due from related parties include 8m 2015: 5m from joint ventures.
There are no amounts due to joint ventures 2015: nil.
No expense 2015: nil has been recognised in the year for bad and doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
The Group has a legal interest in a number of joint ventures and joint arrangements, where the economic interest was divested by the Global Solutions Group prior to its acquisition by G4S plc in 2008.
Transactions with these entities during the year comprised: 2016 2015 Services sales to Services sales to m m White Horse Education Partnership Limited 3 2 Integrated Accommodation Services plc 54 49 Fazakerley Prison Services Limited 34 34 Onley Prison Services Limited 16 15 ECD Cookham Wood Limited 3 ECD Onley Limited 11 UK Court Services Manchester Limited 2 2 East London Lift Company Limited 1 1 Total 110 117 The Group had outstanding balances of 12m due from these entities as at 31 December 2016 2015: 10m.
Transactions with post-employment benefit schemes Details of transactions with the Groups post-employment benefit schemes are provided in note 32.
Unpaid contributions owed to schemes amounted to 0.5m at 31 December 2016 2015: 0.4m.
Transactions with other related parties In the normal course of the Groups business the Group provides services to and receives services from certain non-controlling interests on an arms length basis.
Remuneration of key management personnel The Groups key management personnel are deemed to be the non-executive directors and those individuals, including the executive directors, whose remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Their remuneration is set out below.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors included within key management personnel is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 98.
Events after the balance sheet date No significant post-balance sheet events have affected the Group since 31 December 2016.
160 160 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report 42.
Significant investments The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December 2016 and which, in the opinion of the directors, significantly affected the Groups results and net assets during the year.
A comprehensive list of all Group undertakings is disclosed on pages 162 to 176.
The principal activities of the companies listed below are indicated according to the following key: Secure Solutions S Cash Solutions C These businesses operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated.
Ultimate Product segment Country of incorporation ownership Subsidiary undertakings G4S Soluciones fide Seguridad S. A.
S Argentina 86% G4S Custodial Services Pty Limited S Australia 100% G4S Secure Solutions AG Austria S Austria 100% G4S Secure Solutions SA NV S Belgium 100% G4S Cash Solutions Belgium NV C Belgium 100% G4S Interativa Service Ltda S Brazil 100% Vanguarda Segurana e Vigilncia Ltda S Brazil 100% G4S Secure Solutions Canada Limited S Canada 100% G4S Security Services Regiones S. A.
S Chile 100% G4S Secure Solutions Colombia S. A.
S C Colombia 100% G4S Security Services A S S Denmark 100% G4S Aviation Services UK Limited S England 100% G4S Care and Justice Services UK Limited S England 100% G4S Cash Centres UK Limited C England 100% G4S Cash Solutions UK Limited C England 100% G4S Facilities Management UK Limited S England 100% G4S Risk Management Limited S England 100% G4S Secure Solutions UK Limited S England 100% G4S Security Services UK Limited S England 100% AS G4S Baltics S C Estonia 100% G4S Keszpenzlogisztikai Kft C Hungary 100% 1,3 G4S Secure Solutions India Pvt.
Limited S India 49% G4S Secure Solutions Ire Limited S Ireland 100% G4S Secure Solutions Israel Limited S Israel 92% G4S Security Technologies Israel Limited S Israel 92% G4S Kenya Limited S C Kenya 100% G4S Security Solutions S. A. R. L S C Luxembourg 100% 2,3 Safeguards G4S Sdn Bhd S C Malaysia 49% G4S Cash Solutions BV C Netherlands 100% G4S Beheer BV S Netherlands 100% G4S Peru S. A. C. S C Peru 100% 3 Al Majal Service Master LLC S Saudi Arabia 49% 3 Mohammed Bin Abdoud Al Amoudi Co for Civilian Security Services Partnership Almajal S C Saudi Arabia 0% G4S Cash Solutions SA Pty Limited C South Africa 75% G4S Secure Solutions SA Pty Limited S South Africa 72% G4S Security Services Thailand Limited S Thailand 98% 3 G4S Secure Solutions LLC S C United Arab Emirates 49% G4S Retail Solutions USA Inc. C USA 100% G4S Secure Solutions USA Inc. S USA 100% G4S Technology LLC S USA 100% G4S Youth Services LLC S USA 100% 1.
Limited has a year end of 31 March.
Safeguards G4S Sdn Bhd has a year end of 30 June.
By virtue of shareholder agreements, options, pre-emption rights and other contractual arrangements, the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, so as to obtain the benefits from the activities of these companies.
These are therefore consolidated as full subsidiaries.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 161 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc Subsidiaries Entities listed below are subsidiaries at 31 December 2016, by reason of the holding of a majority of the voting rights or, if a majority is not held, by virtue of section 1162 2 c of the Companies Act 2006.
Not all of the companies listed below are trading entities.
"Country of % owned % owned Company Name Registered address Incorporation by group by plc G4S ALGERIE EURL Algeria 100.0% Lotissement Benhedadi Said N3 Dar Diaf Cherraka, 16050, Algeria SECURICOR GRAY SECURITY SERVICES Angola 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, ANGOLA PTY LTD 0157 Centurion, South Africa Angola 65.0% G4S SERVICOS fide SEGURANCA Rua di reita da Samba, No 58, Corimba, Samba ANGOLA LIMITADA Luanda, Angola G4S SOLUCIONES fide SEGURIDAD S. A. Argentina 85.6% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S SERVICIOS fide SEGURIDAD S. A. Argentina 75.0% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina INDOMEGA S. A. Argentina 85.6% Peru 338 San Fernando del Valle fide Catamarca, K4700AKJ Catamarca, Argentina MANAR S. A. Argentina 85.6% Peru 338 San Fernando del Valle fide Catamarca, K4700AKJ Catamarca, Argentina PROTECCION E INVERSIONES, S. A. Argentina 80.0% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S SOLUCIONES GLOBALES S. A. Argentina 75.0% Jose Demaria 4470 C1425AEB, Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S APPLIED SECURITY S. A. Argentina 75.0% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S CONTROL SYSTEMS SA Argentina 79.6% Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S DETCON S. A. Argentina 75.0% Lavalle 1528, 3 ""E"" C1048AAL, Ciudad Autnoma fide Buenos Aires, Argentina ORCANI PTY LTD Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Australia 100.0% c o HLB Mann Judd, Level 19, 207b Kent Street, 2000 Sydney, Australia AUSTRALIA PTY LTD G4S COMPLIANCE & INVESTIGATIONS Australia 100.0% P. O."
Box 7332 Level 3, 182-184 Bourke Road, NSW 2015 Alexandria, PTY LTD Australia G4S AUSTRALIA PTY LTD Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia G4S HEALTH SERVICES AUSTRALIA Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia PTY LTD G4S CUSTODIAL SERVICES PTY LTD Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia G4S AUSTRALIA HOLDINGS PTY LTD Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia AUSTRALIA PTY LTD G4S CORRECTIONAL SERVICES Australia 100.0% Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia AUSTRALIA PTY LTD G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS AG AUSTRIA Austria 100.0% Dresdner Strasse 91 1, A-1200 Vienna, Austria G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS GMBH Austria 100.0% Peilsteinerstr.
5-7, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria G4S DIENSTLEISTUNGS GMBH Austria 100.0% Dresdner Strasse 91 1, A-1200 Vienna, Austria G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Bahrain 34.3% Villa 925, Road 3830, Manama, Qudaybiyah 338, P. O.
Box 15193 Adliya, BAHRAIN W. L. L Bahrain G4S REGIONAL CONSULTANCY SERVICES Bahrain 100.0% 2235 West Tower BFH NAMESA WLL Manama, Bahrain G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS BANGLADESH Bangladesh 100.0% House # KA 79, Joar Sahara, Dhaka, 1212 Dhaka, Bangladesh P LTD FIRST SELECT BANGLADESH LIMITED Bangladesh 40.0% Apartment 10 A, Rupsha Tower, 7 Kamal Ataturk Avenue, Banani, Dhaka, Bangladesh G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS BARBADOS Barbados 51.0% Brighton, Spring Garden, St. Michael, Barbados LTD G4S CASH SOLUTIONS BELGIUM SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S SUPPORT SERVICES SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S CARGO SOLUTIONS SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S TRAINING & CONSULTANCY Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium SERVICES SA NV G4S AVIATION SECURITY SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S SECURE MONITORING SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S CARE SA NV Belgium 50.4% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S EVENT SERVICES SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S EVENT SECURITY SA NV Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S FIRE AND SAFETY BV BA Belgium 100.0% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S BELGIUM NOMINEE NV Belgium 100.0% 100% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S SAFETY SYSTEMS N. V. Belgium 100.0% Abtsdreef 10, 2940 Stabroek, Belgium ASC SAFETY SERVICES B. V. B.
A. Belgium 100.0% Abtsdreef 10, 2940 Stabroek, Belgium G4S BOLIVA S. A. Bolivia 99.9% Marcelo terceros Banzer S N, 3er Anillo Ext.
Equipetrol Frente Hotel Casa Blanca, Santa Cruz, Bolivia 162 162 G4S G4S plc plc Integrated Integrated Repor Report and t and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S BOTSWANA LTD Botswana 70.0% C o Grant Thornton Business Services Pty Ltd, Acumen Park, Plot 50370, Fairgrounds Gaborone Botswana Botswana 100.0% FIDELITY CASH MANAGEMENT SERVICES c o Price Waterhouse Coppers Pty Ltd, Plot 50371, Fairgrounds Office BOTSWANA PTY LTD Park Gaborone Botswana G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Botswana 48.9% Plot 50370, Fairgrounds Office Park, Gaborone, Botswana BOTSWANA PTY LTD G4S BRAZIL HOLDING LTDA Brazil 100.0% Rua Rui Barbosa 70, 2 andar, 01326-010 So Paulo, Brazil G4S MONITORAMENTO Brazil 100.0% Rua Joo Sierra, 245, Distrito, Industrial II.
CEP13602-054 Araras SP, Brazil E SISTEMAS LTDA.
Brazil 100.0% Avenida Indianapolis, 1.948, Bloco B, Planalto Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil VIGILARME SERVIOS fide VIGILNCIA ARMADA E DESARMADA LTDA.
G4S ENGENHARIA E SISTEMAS LTDA Brazil 100.0% Rua Rui Barbosa 191,1 andar, 01326-010 So Paulo, Brazil G4S INTERATIVA SERVICE LTDA.
Brazil 100.0% Rua Santa Rosa, 911, Bairro Santa Paula, Sao Caetano do Sul, Sao Paulo, Brazil VANGUARDA SEGURANA E VIGILNCIA Brazil 100.0% Rua Conselheiro Ramalho 362, Bela Vista, 01325-000 So Paulo, Brazil LTDA Brazil 100.0% Rua Maria Jos 133, Bela Vista, 01324-010 So Paulo, Brazil EMPRESA NACIONAL fide SEGURANCA LTDA G4S PARTICIPAES LTDA Brazil 100.0% Rua Rui Barbosa 70, 1 andar, Bela Vista 01326-010 So Paulo, Brazil G4S GROUP HOLDING ASIA LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0% CITCO Building, Wickhams City, P. O.
Box 662, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ASIA LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0% Suite 1701-08, Tower 2, Times Square, 1 Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong G4S HOLDINGS LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States ARMORGROUP SPECIAL CLEARANCE British Virgin Islands 100.0% Craigmuir Chambers, P. O.
Box 71, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin SERVICES LTD Islands HILL & ASSOCIATES CONSULTANTS LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0% Kingston Chambers, P. O.
Box 173, Road Town Tortola, British Virgin Islands G4S BVI HOLDCO COLOMBIA II LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States British Virgin Islands 100.0% HILL & ASSOCIATES CONSULTANTS P. O.
Box 957, Offshore Incorporations Centre, Road Town, Tortola, British MIDDLE EAST LTD Virgin Islands ASHINO HOLDINGS LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS EOOD Bulgaria 100.0% management at 1, Business Park Sofia, block 3, office 207-208, 1766 Sofia, Mladost Region, Bulgaria G4S SECURITY SERVICES CAMEROON PLC Cameroon 48.4% Old Airport Road, Bonapriso Doula, Cameroon Canada 100.0% 150 Ferrand Drive, Suite 600, M3C 3E5 Toronto, Ontario, Canada G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CANADA LTD. G4S SOLUTIONS fide SECURITE CANADA LTEE INDO BRITISH GARMENTS CANADA LTD Canada 100.0% 5255 Orbitor Drive, L4W 5M6 Mississauga Ontario, Canada I-VISION SYSTEMS INC Canada 100.0% 160 Elgin Street, K1P 1C3, Ottawa, Canada SERVICE MASTERS LTD Cayman Islands 100.0% Sterling Trust Cayman Limited, Whitehall House, 238 North Church Street, k1-1102 Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 100.0% No 48 85, Avenue Kolwezi, Gombe, Kinshasa, DRC G4S CENTRAFRIQUE SECURITE SOLUTION Central African SURL Republic G4S HOLDINGS CHILE S. A. Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile G4S SECURITY SERVICES REGIONES, S. A. Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile G4S SECURITY SERVICES LIMITADA Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile ARRIENDOS FAST CAR, LTDA.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile CAPACITACIN Y DESARROLLO, LTDA.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile SERVICIOS Y CAPACITACIN, LTDA.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile SERVICIOS fide INFORMACIN Chile 100.0% Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, Chile COMUNICACIONES Y TECNOLGICOS S. A. G4S AUSTRAL S. A. Chile 100.0% Paraguay 939, Puerto Montt, Chile G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LTD. China 100.0% 13F, Hui Shang Building, 1286 Min Sheng Road, Pudong New District, 200122, Shanghai, China SHENZHEN G4S DONAR TECHNOLOGY China 100.0% West Floor 9, Bus Tower 1001, Lianhau branch, Futian District, 518036 CO, LTD Shenzhen, China G4S MING WANG SECURITY SYSTEMS China 75.0% Room 801, East 8th Floor, 1st Building, QingDong Business Area, No.
1 CO. LTD. CheDaoGou, HaiDan District, 100089 Beijing, China G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS BEIJING CO. LTD China 75.0% Room 01-4 Tower A 8F, Yi Cheng International Centre No.
10 Rong Hua Middle Road Beijing Development Area, 100176 Beijing, China G4S TECHNOLOGY CHINA LTD China 100.0% Room 710A, 7 F, Nan Fang Securities Building, 140 -148 Ti Yu Dong Lu, Tian He District, Guangzhou, China HILL & ASSOCIATES PRC LTD China 100.0% 6A, Huamin Empire Plaza, No.
728 Yan An Road W, 200050 Shanghai, China G4S ZHEJIANG SECURE SOLUTIONS China 90.0% 17-1 Bai Ma Miao Xiang, Shangcheng District, Hangzhou, China CO LTD China 100.0% G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Room 204-7, 2 Floor, China Diamond Exchange Center Building, Tower B, SHANGHAI CO. LTD No.
1701 Century Boulevard, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES China 100.0% 13F, Hui Shang Building, 1286 Min Sheng Road, Pudong New District, SHANGHAI CO. LTD 200122, Shanghai, China Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 163 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS COLOMBIA S. A. Colombia 100.0% Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia G4S RISK MANAGEMENT COLOMBIA S. A. Colombia 94.5% Avenida 26 No.
69A 51 Torre A, Int 1, Piso 2, Bogota, Colombia G4S HOLDING COLOMBIA SA Colombia 100.0% Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia G4S TECHNOLOGY COLOMBIA S. A. Colombia 100.0% Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia G4S CASH SOLUTIONS COLOMBIA LTDA.
Colombia 100.0% Avenida fide las Americas No.
41 08, Bogota, Colombia EBC INGENIERIA S. A.
S Colombia 100.0% Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia GFOURS S. A. Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica G CUATRO S VALOURS S. A. Costa Rica 100.0% Cinco Esquinas fide Tibas fide la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts.
Oeste, San Jose, Costa Rica WACKENHUT SERVICIOS fide SEGURIDAD, Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo S. A. Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica WACKENHUT SERVICIO fide ESCOLTAS, Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo S. A. Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica G FOUR S GRUPO fide SERVICIOS Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo ESPECIALES fide SEGURIDAD, S. A. Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica G FOUR S CONSULTOR EN SEGURIDAD, Costa Rica 100.0% Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo S. A. Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica G CUATRO S LOGISTICA fide VALORES SA Costa Rica 100.0% Cinco Esquinas fide Tibas fide la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts.
Oeste, San Jose, Costa Rica G CUATRO S CASH SOLUTIONS S. A. Costa Rica 100.0% Cinco Esquinas fide Tibas fide la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts.
Oeste, San Jose, Costa Rica G4S GULF HOLDINGS NV Curacao 100.0% Kaya Flamboyan 6, Curaao, Dutch West Indies, Curacao G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CYPRUS LTD Cyprus 74.0% Diianiras 17, 2045 Strovolos Nicosia, P. O.
Box 23989 1687, Nicosia, Cyprus G4S HOLDING CYPRUS LTD Cyprus 100.0% P. O.
Box 23989, 1687 Nicosia, Cyprus ARMORGROUP MIDDLE EAST LIMITED Cyprus 100.0% Julia House, 3 Themistocles Dervis street, CY-1066 Nicosia, Cyprus G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CZ, A. S. Czech Republic 100.0% Na Kosince 2257 9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic G4S CASH SOLUTIONS CZ A. S. Czech Republic 100.0% Na Kosince 2257 9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic G4S SERVICES S. R. O. Czech Republic 100.0% Na Kosince 2257 9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic G4S DRC S. A. R. L. Democratic Republic 95.0% 108, Boulevard du 30 Juin, Gombe, Kinshasa, Democratic of Congo G4S HOLDINGS DK A S Denmark 100.0% 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S INTERNATIONAL DK A S Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S SECURITY SERVICES A S Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S KYHLENSO A S Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S VIKINGA SURAMERICANA APS Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S SURAMERICANA HOLDING APS Denmark 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Dominican Republic 95.0% 28.50% Paseo fide los Locutores #36, Ensanche Piantini, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic G4S CASH SOLUTIONS Dominican Republic 95.0% Paseo fide los Locutores #36, Ensanche Piantini, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ECUADOR Ecuador 99.9% Gral.
Giacomo Roca N33-92 y Bosmediano, Quito, Ecuador CIA LTDA.
G4S HOLDING ECUADOR S. A. Ecuador 99.9% Luis Cordero E12-114 y Toledo, Quito, Ecuador DEFENCE SYSTEMS ECUADOR Ecuador 99.9% Calle Mosc E09-8 y Av.
Repblica del Salvador, Quito, Ecuador DSE CIA LTDA G4S FACILITY MANAGEMENT CIA LTDA Ecuador 99.9% Calle La Perla y 5th.
Box 17-11-04791 Quito, Ecuador Calle Mosc E09-8 y Av.
Repblica del Salvador Quito, Ecuador CEFOSEG CIA.
Principal la Perla S52-136 y Quinta Transversal Quito Ecuador G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS EGYPT LLC Egypt 85.0% 2nd District, 90th Street, Area 6, 5th Settlement, New Cairo, Cairo, Egypt INDO BRITISH GARMENTS EGYPT S. A. E. Egypt 99.0% Head Office: Ismalia Public Free Zone Area, Egypt FS INVESTMENTS LLC Egypt 99.0% 7 El Sherka El Porsaidia St. Auba Boula Sq.
Ard El Golf, Heliopolis, Cairo, Egypt FIRST SELECT EGYPT LLC Egypt 59.4% Flat no.
7, Bur Saeediya Company Street, Alan Babula Square, Heliopolis, Golf Land, Cairo, Egypt G4S LOTUS FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Egypt 51.0% 3A Nabatat Street, Garden City, Cairo, Egypt COMPANY G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS EL SALVADOR El Salvador 100.0% Av.
Olimpica 3765, San Salvador, El Salvador S. A. fide C. V. AS G4S BALTICS Estonia 100.0% Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia AS G4S GRUPP Estonia 100.0% Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia AS G4S EESTI Estonia 100.0% Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia ALARMTEC AS Estonia 100.0% Tkoja 1, 11313 Tallinn, Estonia AS HISTEENUSED Estonia 100.0% Tarta mnt 80j, 10112 Tallinn, Estonia 164 164 G4S G4S plc plc Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS France 100.0% 18 R Pasquier, 75008 Paris, France FRANCE SAS G4S AVIATION SECURITY FRANCE SAS France 100.0% 18 Rue Pasquier, 75008 Paris, France G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS FRANCE SAS France 100.0% 9 PLACE fide LA MADELEINE 75008 Paris, France G4S GABON SECURE SOLUTIONS S. A. Gabon 99.9% Quartier Ambowe, BP 4000 Libreville, Gabon G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS GAMBIA LTD Gambia 90.0% 9 Booster Street, Fajara, SK Serrekunda, Gambia G4S SECURITY HOLDINGS fide GMBH Germany 100.0% C o Baker Tilly Roelfs AG  Valentinskamp 88 20355 Hamburg, Germany G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Germany 100.0% Rathenaustrasse 53, D-63263 Neu-Isenburg, Germany GERMANY GMBH G4S  GMBH Germany 100.0% 5.20% C o Baker Tilly Roelfs AG  Valentinskamp 88 20355 Hamburg, Germany G4S SECURITY SERVICES GHANA LTD Ghana 100.0% 31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana G4S GHANA LTD Ghana 100.0% 31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS GHANA LTD Ghana 100.0% 31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana G4S RISK MANAGEMENT AFRICA LTD Ghana 49.0% 31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece G4S HELLAS HOLDING SA Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SA Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece G4S TELEMATIX SA Greece 39.4% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece WSW SKYKAP SERVICES SA Greece 42.5% 5 klm, Spaton-Loutsas aven.
190 19 Spata, Greece Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece G4S AVIATION AND PORTS SECURE SOLUTIONS SA HELLAS GUARD S. A. Greece 18.0% National Road Palaiokastritsas, 491 00 Kerkiras, Greece UNDER LIQUIDATION G4S RMS LTD Greece 100% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece CSI DEFENSE LTD Greece 50.0% 35 Kountouriotou, 555-35 Thessaloniki, Greece Greece 100.0% 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS AND MONITORING SERVICES GREECE SA G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS GRENADA LTD. Grenada 51.0% Maurice Bishop Highway Grand Anse St. Georges, Grenada G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS GUAM, INC. Guam 100.0% 1851A Army Drive, Harmon, Guam, 96913, Guam G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS GUAM INC. Guam 100.0% 1851A Army Drive, Harmon, Guam, 96913, Guam WACKENHUT fide GUATEMALA SA Guatemala 50.0% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala WACKENHUT ELECTRONICA SA Guatemala 47.5% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala G4S DOCUMENTA, S. A. Guatemala 50.0% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala FACILITY SERVICES, S. A. Guatemala 28.0% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS, S. A. Guatemala 50.0% Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS GUERNSEY LTD Guernsey 100.0% Homefield Rue fide LEpinel Forest, GY8 0HL, Guernsey G4S INSURANCE GUERNSEY LTD Guernsey 100.0% 100.0% P. O.
Box 384, 4th Floor, The Albany, South Esplanade, GY1 4NF St. Peter Port, Guernsey G4S SECURITY SERVICES GUINEA SARL Guinea 75.0% Commune fide Ratoma, Kipe Centre Emetteur, Pres fide la Seg, Conakry, Guinea Honduras 100.0% G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS fide HONDURAS Edificio Santa Elena, primer nivel.
La Paz S. A. fide C. V. Tegucigalpa, Honduras G4S HONG KONG HOLDING LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong VERDI LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong HONG KONG LTD Kong G4S GURKHA SERVICES LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong HONG KONG SECURITY LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong HONG KONG LTD Kong G4S FACILITY SERVICES Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong HONG KONG LTD. Kong Hong Kong 100.0% G4S CASH SOLUTIONS 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong HONG KONG LTD Kong SECURICOR MACAU Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong INVESTMENT LTD Kong G4S GROUP HOLDING CHINA LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong STARPOINT INVESTMENTS LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.0% Unit 02, 7 F, Beautiful Group Tower, 77 Connaught Rd Central, Hong Kong G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISITICS HONG KONG LTD G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, HONG KONG LTD Hong Kong Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 165 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address GREAT STEP INVESTMENT LTD Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong VICTORY STEP GROUP LTD Hong Kong 75.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong G4S TECHNOLOGY Hong Kong 100.0% 1 F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, HONG KONG LTD Hong Kong HILL & ASSOCIATES LTD Hong Kong 100.0% Suite 1701-08, Tower 2, Times Square, 1 Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong G4S BIZTONSGTECHIKAI ZRT Hungary 100.0% Harrer Pl u.
1033 Budapest, Hungary G4S KSZPNZLOGISZTIKAI KFT Hungary 100.0% Rozsnyai u.
21-25, 1139 Budapest, Hungary G4S BIZTONSGI Hungary 100.0% Polgr u.
8-10, 1033 Budapest, Hungary SZOLGLTATSOK ZRT G4S HOLDING KFT Hungary 100.0% Polgr u.
8-10, 1033 Budapest, Hungary G4S CENTRAL MONITORING SERVICES India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New INDIA PVT.
LTD Delhi, India G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INDIA PVT.
LTD India 49.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India INDO-BRITISH GARMENTS P LTD India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India G4S CASH SOLUTIONS INDIA PVT LTD India 100.0% 18.50% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India G4S FLEET MANAGEMENT SERVICES India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New INDIA PVT.
LTD Delhi, India G4S PRODUCTS INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India MONITRON SECURITY P LTD India 100.0% Office Unit No.
301, Third Floor, A-Wing, Eureka Tower, Building No.
7, Mind Space, Link Road, Malad west, 400064 Mumbai, India G4S CORPORATE SERVICES INDIA India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New PVT.
LTD. Delhi, India FIRST SELECT P LTD India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India G4S FACILITY SERVICES INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100.0% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India G4S IT SERVICES INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100.0% 84.5% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India PROTEX SECURITY SERVICES India 48.9% Plot No.
14, Banjara Hills, 500034 Hyderabad, India AP PVT.
LTD INVESTIGATION AND SECURITY SERVICES India 46.7% Plot No.
14, Banjara Hills, 500034 Hyderabad, India INDIA PVT.
LTD MONITRON SUPPORT India 49.5% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New SERVICES PVT.
LTD Delhi, India HILL & ASSOCIATES INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100.0% Upper Ground Floor, Tower B, Building No.
10, DLF Cyber City, 122002 DLF Phase II, Gurgaon, Haryana, India HILL & ASSOCIATES RISK CONSULTANCY India 100.0% Upper Ground Floor, Tower B, Building No.
LTD DLF Phase II, Gurgaon, Haryana, India PT G4S SECURITY SERVICES Indonesia 97.0% The Security CenterUnit 407, Cilandak Commercial Estate KKO, 12560 Jakarta, Indonesia PT G4S CASH SERVICES Indonesia 83.9% Jl.
18, Pondok Pinang, Kebayoran Lama, 12310 Jakarta, Indonesia PT CASINTRANS PERDANA Indonesia 100.0% Menara Jamsostek Fl.
38, Kuningan Barat, Jakarta Selatan, Indonesia PT G4S EURONET INDONESIA Indonesia 53.0% The Security CenterUnit 407, Cilandak Commercial Estate KKO, 12560 Jakarta, Indonesia PT HILL KONSULTAN INDONESIA Indonesia 99.0% Gedung Setiabudi 2 Lt. 3A Suite 3A-01 Jl.
62, 12920 Jakarta, Indonesia PT G4S SECURITY SOLUTION SERVICES Indonesia 51.0% The Security CenterUnit 407, Cilandak Commercial Estate KKO, 12560 Jakarta, Indonesia PT ARGENTA ADHILOKA PRATAMA Indonesia 51.0% Jl.
30, Bendungan Hilir, Tanah Abang, 10210 Jakarta, Indonesia GROUP 4 SECURICOR Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland GLOBAL RISKS LTD G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS IRE LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland G4S SUPPORT SERVICES Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland IRELAND LTD G4S HOLDINGS IRELAND LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland G4S CASH SOLUTIONS IRELAND LTD Ireland 100.0% Bluebell Industrial Estate, Bluebell Ave, Dublin 12, Ireland G4S MONITORING IRE LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland A1 SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT IRE LTD Ireland 100.0% Unit 5 Calmount Business Park, Ballymount, Dublin 12, Ireland ALARM MONITORING SERVICES LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland 166 166 G4S G4S plc plc Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S COMPLIANCE AND INVESTIGATIONS Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland IRELAND LIMITED G4S FINANCE IRELAND LTD Ireland 100.0% 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland GDJS SECURITY LTD Ireland 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Isle of Man 100.0% Isle of Man Business Pk, Isle of Man IM2 2SE ISLE OF MAN LTD G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ISRAEL LTD Israel 91.9% 14 Scacham St. Petch Tikva, Israel Israel 91.9% 14 Scacham St. Petch Tikva, Israel G4S SECURITY CONSULTANCY ISRAEL LTD G4S SAFETY SOLUTIONS ISRAEL LTD Israel 91.9% 14 Scacham St. Petch Tikva, Israel G4S SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES ISRAEL Israel 91.9% 10 Scacham St. Petch Tikva, Israel LTD G4S MANPOWER SERVICES ISRAEL LTD Israel 91.9% 14 Scacham St. Petch Tikva, Israel Israel 91.9% 2 Hashiloach, Petch Tikva, Israel G4S COMPUTERIZED SYSTEMS HOTELOISRAEL LTD MOKED EMUN SURVEILLANCE Israel 64.3% Maskit Merkazim Building, 46120 Herzelia, Israel & CONTROL 1995 LTD G4S SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES EILATIsrael 91.9% 5 Peten, 8801306 Eliat, Israel ISRAEL LTD. G4S ISRAEL PPP LTD Israel 100.0% 14 Scacham St. Petch Tikva, Israel POLICITY LTD Israel 46.0% 1a Ha'Yarden St. Air Port City, Lod, Israel G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS ISRAEL Israel 100.0% 111, Arlozorov Street, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel, 6209809 LTD WACKENHUT SA Ivory Coast 97.5% 20 B. P. 845 Abidjan 20, Ivory Coast G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CI SA Ivory Coast 97.5% 3 Boulevard Valerie Giscard d'Estaing, 01 BP 6065 ABJ 01 Abidjan, Ivory Coast ARMORGROUP COTE D'IVOIRE SA Ivory Coast 100.0% Rue B31, Lot 29, Cocody danga Nord Abidjan, 20 BP 845 Abidjan 20 Abidjan, Ivory Coast G4S JAMAICA LTD Jamaica 100.0% 6-8 East Avenue, 5 Kingston W. I. Jamaica G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS JAPAN K. K Japan 100.0% 202, Musashino Hills, 2299-4 Fussa, Fussa-shi, 1970011 Fussa-shi, Japan HILL & ASSOCIATES JAPAN KK Japan 100.0% 2-2-15, #403, Minami-Aoyama, Minato-ku, 107-0062 Tokyo, Japan G4S HOLDINGS INDIA LTD Jersey 100.0% Third Floor, 37 Esplanade, JE2 3QA St Helier, Jersey G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS JERSEY LTD Jersey 100.0% The Security Centre Rue des Pres Trading Estate, JE2 7QP St Saviour, Jersey G4S INTERNATIONAL Jersey 100.0% The Old Chapel, Sacre Coeur, Rouge Bouillon St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3ZA EMPLOYMENT SERVICES LTD LUCAS CAPITAL JERSEY LTD Jersey 100.0% 100.0% Ogier House, The Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey Jordan 50.0% G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL # 12, Mithqual El Fayez St. Third Circle, Jebel, P. O.
Box 831358, 11183 INC JORDAN LTD. Amman, Jordan G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INT.
JORDAN Jordan 60.0% Roxy Al Ozaizi Street Dana Center 2, 11183 Amman, Jordan FOR INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS G4S KENYA LTD Kenya 100.0% Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, GPO 00100 Nairobi, Kenya G4S FIRE SERVICES KENYA LTD Kenya 100.0% Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, GPO 00100 Nairobi, Kenya ARMORGROUP KENYA LTD Kenya 100.0% Plot No.
LR 209 368 10, Armor House, Lenana Road, P. O.
Box 2714 Nairobi, Kenya G4S SECURE DATA SOLUTIONS KENYA Kenya 60.0% Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, GPO 00100 LTD Nairobi, Kenya AS G4S LATVIA Latvia 100.0% Stigu Str 10, LV-1021, Riga, Latvia AS G4S CASH SERVICES LATVIA Latvia 100.0% Stigu Str 10, LV-1021, Riga, Latvia Lebanon 50.6% 50.60% Saliba Building Awkar Dbayeh, 70-461, Antelias Beirut, Lebanon GROUP 4 SECURITY SERVICES LEBANON SAL G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS LEBANON SAL Lebanon 50.7% Saliba Building Awkar Dbayeh, 70-461, Antelias Beirut, Lebanon G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS LESOTHO PTY Lesotho 100.0% 397 Hilton Hill Road Maseru, Lesotho LTD G4S CASH SOLUTIONS LESOTHO PTY Lesotho 100.0% 397 Hilton Hill Road, Maseru, Lesotho LTD UAB G4S LIETUVA Lithuania 100.0% J. Jasinskio 16C, LT-01112 Vilnius, Lithuania G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS S. A. R. L. Luxembourg 100.0% 14 Rue du Pre Raphal P. O.
Box 1513, L-1015 Luxembourg G4S GENERAL SERVICES SA Luxembourg 100.0% 14 Rue du Pre Raphal P. O.
Box 1513 G4S FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SARL Luxembourg 100.0% 100.0% 14 Rue du Pre Raphal P. O.
Box 1513 HILL & ASSOCIATES MACAU lTD Macau 100% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind.
Keck Seng, Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau G4S MACAU HOLDING LTD Macau 100.0% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 185-191, 1 Andar A, Macau G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS MACAU LTD Macau 100.0% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind.
Keck Seng, Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau GREAT WALL SECURITY SERVICES LTDA.
Macau 100.0% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind.
Keck Seng, Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau Macau 100.0% GREAT WALL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind.
Keck Seng, SERVICES LTD Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau GREAT WALL HOLDINGS LTD Macau 100.0% Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind.
Keck Seng, Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau G4S MADAGASCAR SOLUTIONS fide Madagascar 100.0% Lot II, 161 HC Ambohijatovo Ivandry Immeuble Millenium, 10101 101 SECURITE SARL Antananarivo Renivohitra C. U. Madagascar Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 167 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS MALAWI LTD Malawi 99.7% Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, Blantyre, Malawi G4S PREMIER GUARDING SERVICES Malawi 100.0% Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, Blantyre, Malawi MALAWI LTD G4S PREMIER ALARM MONITORING AND Malawi 100.0% Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, Blantyre, Malawi RESPONSE SERVICES MALAWI LTD G4S MALAYSIA SDN.
Malaysia 60.0% 25-2, Jalan PjU 1 42A, Dataran Prima, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia ALMO SYSTEMS SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% 25-2, Jalan PjU 1 42A, Dataran Prima, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia GROUP 4 FALCK CMS SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% Suite 226, 1st floor, FAS Business Avenue, No.
1, Jalan Perbandaran, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SECURICOR MALAYSIA SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S SABAH SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S SARAWAK SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS Malaysia 49.0% No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, SDN BHD Malaysia GWENKENS SECURITY SERVICES SDN BHD Malaysia 44.1% 910 Suite 1, Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, Jalan 16 11, Off Jalan Damansara, Petaling Jaya, 46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES ASIA Malaysia 100.0% 1st Floor, Lot 6, Jalan 225, Sec 51A, Petaling Jaya, 46100 Selangor, Malaysia PACIFIC SDN BHD HILL CORPORATE SERVICES SDN BHD Malaysia 100.0% 2nd floor, No 2-4 Jalan Manau, 50460 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia RISK CONSULTING L LTD Malaysia 100.0% Level 15B, Main Office Tower, Financial Park, Jalan Merdeka, 87000 Labuan, Malaysia HILL RISK CONSULTING MALAYSIA Malaysia 100.0% Unit No 9-7, The Boulevard, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, 59200 SDN BHD Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia VIVA POWERTECH SDN.
Malaysia 100.0% Level 21, Suite 21.10, The Gardens South Tower, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SAFEGUARDS G4S ACADEMY SDN BHD Malaysia 44.1% 910 Suite 1, Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, Jalan 16 11, Off Jalan Damansara, Petaling Jaya, 46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia GWENKENS CENTRAL MONITORING Malaysia 44.1% 910 Suite 1, Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, Jalan 16 11, Off Jalan SDN BHD Damansara, Petaling Jaya, 46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia INDO BRITISH GARMENTS Malaysia 100.0% Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing No 1 Leboh Ampang, MALAYSIA SDN BHD 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia G4S MALI SARL Mali 100.0% Hamdallaye ACI 2000, street 405 gate 558, Bamako, Mali G4S SECURITY SERVICES MALTA LTD Malta 50.1% Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San Gwann, Malta G4S SECURITY SERVICES LTD Malta 50.1% Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San Gwann, Malta G4S HOLDINGS MALTA LTD Malta 100.0% Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San Gwann, Malta G4S COMMUNITY SERVICES LIMITED Malta 50.1% Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San Gwann, Malta G4S SECURITY SERVICES MAURITANIA SA Mauritania 70.0% BP 4201, Nouakchott, Tevragh Zeina Ilot C, No.
261, Nouakchott, Mauritania G4S HOLDINGS CHINA LTD Mauritius 100.0% c o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius CROSSKEYS MAURITIUS HOLDINGS LTD Mauritius 100.0% 210 St James Court, Rue St Denis, Port Louis, Mauritius HILL RISK MANAGEMENT LTD Mauritius 100.0% c o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius HILL & ASSOCIATES MAURITIUS LTD Mauritius 100.0% c o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius HILL RISK CONSULTING MAURITIUS LTD Mauritius 100.0% c o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius S GRAY MANAGEMENT SERVICES LTD Mauritius 100.0% c o Intercontinental Trust LTD, Level 3, Alexander House, 35 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius G4S HOLDINGS MXICO, SA fide CV Mexico 100.0% Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Mexico, D. F. Mexico G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS S. A. fide C. V. Mexico 100.0% Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Mexico, D. F. Mexico G4S PRIVATE SECURITY SERVICES, SA fide Mexico 100.0% Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Mexico, D. F. Mexico CV G4S SECURITY SERVICES CRNA GORA Montenegro 85.0% Cvijetna Street no.
25, Podgorica, Montenegro DOO PODGORICA WACKENHUT MOROCCO INC BRANCH Morocco 93.8% 24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco OFFICE MAROC PROTECTION SURVEILLANCE SA Morocco 100.0% 24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco G4S MAROC SA Morocco 100.0% 24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco FIRST SELECT MOROCCO SA Morocco 99.9% 24, Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Marouf, Casablanca, Morocco G4S INTERGRATED SERVICES MOROCCO Morocco 100.0% 24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco SA 168 168 G4S G4S plc plc Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address WACKENHUT MOZAMBIQUE LIMITADA Mozambique 90% Rua Mariano Machado nr.
99 186, Maputo, Mozambique Mozambique 87.5% Av da Organizacao da Unidade Africana, 121, Maputo, Mozambique G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS MOCAMBIQUE LIMITADA G4S ORDNANCE MANAGEMENT Mozambique 90.0% No 2085, Avenida Ahmed Sekoe Toure, Maputo, Mozambique MOCAMBIQUE, LIMITADA G FOUR S MANNED SECURITY NAMIBIA Namibia 100.0% 33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia PTY LTD G FOUR S AVIATION SECURITY NAMIBIA Namibia 100.0% 33 General Murtala Ramat, Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia PTY LTD Namibia 100.0% 33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia G FOUR S SECURE SOLUTIONS NAMIBIA PTY LTD ARMED RESPONSE COMPANY Namibia 100.0% 33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia PROPRIETARY LTD RESCUE 911 PROPRIETARY LTD Namibia 100.0% 33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia PRO-FORCE CORPORATE SECURITY Namibia 100.0% 33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia PROPRIETARY LTD Namibia 100.0% 33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia G FOUR S CASH SOLUTIONS NAMIBIA PTY LTD G4S SECURITY SERVICES NEPAL P LTD Nepal 99.9% House No.
2, Kathmandu Metropolitan City, Kathmandu, Nepal FIRST SELECT NEPAL P LTD Nepal 100.0% P. O.
Box 20423, House # 75 45, Lazimpat, Kailash Chaur, Kathmandu, Nepal SECURITAS PRODUCT NEPAL P. LTD Nepal 100.0% Ichhunadi Marg, Baluwatar, Ward No.
4, Kathmandu Metropolitan City, Kathmandu, Nepal Nepal 100.0% G4S FACILITY & EMPLOYMENT SERVICES Ichhunadi Marg, Baluwatar, Ward No.
4, Kathmandu Metropolitan City, NEPAL PVT.
LTD Kathmandu, Nepal G4S INTERNATIONAL NL BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S HOLDING B BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S INDIA HOLDINGS NL BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S AVIATION SECURITY BV Netherlands 100.0% Evert van fide Beekstraat 1 rumimtenummer 66, Luchthaven Schiphol, 1118 CL Netherlands G4S SECURE MONITORING BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S CPH BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS 101 NL Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands BV G4S SECURITY SERVICES BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S HOLDINGS 102 NL B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S HOLDINGS 103 NL BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S GROUP HOLDING ASIA BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S BEHEER BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S SERVICES BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S PUBLIC SECURITY BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S CASH SOLUTIONS B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Ptolemaeuslaan 61, 3528 BR Utrecht, Netherlands G4S CASH MANAGEMENT B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Ptolemaeuslaan 61, 3528 BR Utrecht, Netherlands G4S STAMFORD INVESTMENTS BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S TRAINING & SAFETY BV Netherlands 100.0% Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands G4S DIRECT BV Netherlands 100.0% Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands ROTUS BV Netherlands 100.0% Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands IBG EUROPE BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands G4S PERSONNEL BV Netherlands 100.0% Amperestraat 25, 6716 BN Ede, Netherlands G4S ZORG & WELZIJN B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Tolnasingel 1, 2411 PV Bodegraven, Netherlands G4S OVERSEAS HOLDINGS BV Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S FIRE & SAFETY B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Donk 1D, 2991 LE Barendrecht, Netherlands G4S REGIONAL MANAGEMENT EUROPE Netherlands 100.0% Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands BV INZETBAAR B. V. Netherlands 100.0% Tolnasingel 1, 2411PV Bodegraven, Netherlands.
FAIR BEDRIJFSDIENSTEN BV Netherlands 100.0% Tolnasingel 1, 2411PV Bodegraven, Netherlands.
FAIR BEWAKING BV Netherlands 100.0% Tolnasingel 1, 2411PV Bodegraven, Netherlands.
G4S NEW ZEALAND LTD New Zealand 100.0% Level3, 2 Kalmia Street, Ellerslie, 1051, New Zealand G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS, SOCIEDAD Nicaragua 51.0% Reparta Belmonte, Dr. Hospital Velez Paiz, 1 Cuadra Holis ANNIMA Arriba, Nicaragua OUTSOURCING SERVICES LTD Nigeria 99.9% 27, Oba Akinjobi Street, GIRA, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria SCHC LTD Nigeria 99.0% 13A, A. J. Marinho Drive, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100.0% 27, Oba Akinjobi Street, GIRA, Ikeja Lagos.
Nigeria G4S TRACKING SOLUTIONS LTD Nigeria 60.0% AIB Plaza, Off Akin Adesola Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria ASSETGUARD SERVICES LTD Nigeria 100.0% 1 Murtala Mohammed Drive Formerly Bank Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria ARMORGROUP NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100.0% 27, Oba Akinjobi Street, GIRA, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria DEFENCE SYSTEMS NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100.0% 6 Takoradi Street, Wuse Abuja, Nigeria G4S GLOBAL RISKS NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100.0% Plot 7a Acme Road, Block C, Ogba Inustrial Scheme, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 169 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CNMI INC. Northern Mariana 100.0% PMB 384 PPP Box 1000, 96950 Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands Islands G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS LLC Oman 49.0% P. O.
Box 1625, 112, Ruwi Muscat, Oman G4S SERVICES LLC Oman 49.0% P. O.
Box 1625, 112 Muscat, Oman HILL & ASSOCIATES PAKISTAN PVT.
LTD Pakistan 100.0% B-61, KDA Scheme 01, 7550 Karachi, Pakistan FIRST SELECT PAKISTAN PVT LTD Pakistan 51.0% H. No.
8, F-7 3, Islamabad, Pakistan INVERSIONES SETESCA Panama 100.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama SEGURIDAD TECNICA SA Panama 44.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama TELEMETRIA Y ALARMA SA Panama 17.6% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama DETECTA SA Panama 44.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama LIMPIE SA Panama 44.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama G4S S. A. Panama 100.0% Marbella, Ave. Aquilino fide la Guardia Ocean Business Plaza, Piso 17-1704, Panama City, Panama METERS CORP. Panama 100.0% Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS PNG LTD Papua New Guinea 100.0% Section 61, Allotment 13, Morata Street, Gordons, National Capital District, Papua New Guinea MONT BLANC LIMITED Papua New Guinea 100.0% C Sinton Spence Chartered Accountants 2nd Floor Brian Bell Plaza Turmu St. Boroko, Boroko, Papua New Guinea G4S PNG LIMITED Papua New Guinea 100.0% PO Box 5392 Boroko NCD, Papua New Guinea WACKENHUT PARAGUAY SA Paraguay 1.6% Nery Quevedo 315 Esq.
Hipolito Garron, Asuncion, Paraguay G4S PERU SAC Peru 99.9% Av.
El Sol 916, Urbanizacin La Campia.
Chorrillos, Lima, Peru G4S L&T PERU S. A.
El Sol N 906, Distrito fide Chorrillos, Provincia Y Departmento fide Lima, Peru G4S HOLDING, INC. Philippines 79.9% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS, INC. Philippines 79.8% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines PERSONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS INC. Philippines 100% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines CATENA SECURITY INC. Philippines 100% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines VALLUM SECURITY SERVICES CORP. Philippines 100% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines G4S SECURITY TRAINING INC. Philippines 31.9% Metro Manila, Philippines C O Unit 201 Conservatory Bldg, 605 Shaw Blvd.
Mandaluyong City, Philippines ATTINA SECURITY SERVICES, INC. Philippines 100.0% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines HILL & ASSOCIATE RISK CONSULTING Philippines 100.0% Unit 505, Pse Tower One & Exchange Plaza, 6767 Ayala Avenue, 1226 PHILS.
INC. Makati City, Philippines ACCURIA EXECUTIVE PROTECTION & Philippines 100.0% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines DETECTIVE SERVICES INC. G4S CASH SOLUTIONS PHILLIPINES INC. Philippines 51.0% 100 E. Rodriquez Avenue, Ugong Norte, 1552 Quezon City, Philippines GLOBAL SECURITY SOLUTIONS INC. Philippines 50.0% Unit 201 Conservatory Building, 1552 Mandaluyong City, Philippines CYNEWARD SECURITY CORP. Philippines 100.0% G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd.
Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Puerto Rico 100.0% Carretera #1 Plaza Bairoa, Suite 211, Caguas, Puerto Rico PUERTO RICO INC. G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SRL Romania 100.0% 15 Charles fide Gaulle Square, 12th floor, District 1, Bucharest, Romania G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SRL Romania 100.0% 15 Charles fide Gaulle Square, 12th floor, District 1, Bucharest, Romania G4S FIRE & SAFETY S. R. L. Romania 100.0% 15 Charles fide Gaulle Square, 12th floor, District 1, Bucharest, Romania LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY PRIVATE Russia 100.0% UKhtomski Pereulok, 4, 111020 Moscow, Russia SECURITY ENTITY GROUP 4 SECURITAS RENAMED LLC PSE GSN LLC PSE G4S SECURITY Russia 75.0% 36 Dzerzhinskogo, 693000 Yuzhno Sakhalinsk, Russia SERVICES SAKHALIN LLC G4S TECNICAL SOLUTIONS Russia 75.0% 62A Amurskaya Str, Office 103, 693000 Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Russia SAKHALIN G4S EURASIA LLC Russia 100.0% Building 1, 4 Ukhtomsky Pereulok, 111020 Moscow, Russia G4S RWANDA LTD Rwanda 99.0% 5698 Nyarutarama, P. O.
Box 7230, Kigali, Rwanda G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ST. LUCIA LTD Saint Lucia 51.0% P. O.
Box CP 6098 Conway Post Office, Castries, Saint Lucia AL MAJAL GROUP 4S FOR SECURITY AND Saudi Arabia 49.0% P. O.
Box 31049, 21497 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia SAFETY LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AL MAJAL SERVICE MASTER LLC Saudi Arabia 49.0% Post Code 6930, 21452 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia MOHAMMED BIN ABDOUD AL AMOUDI Saudi Arabia 0.0% P. O.
Box 2779, 21461 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia CO FOR CIVILIAN SECURITY SERVICES PARTNERSHIP ALMAJAL G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS D. O. O. Serbia 85.0% Kumodraska Street no 240, Belgrade, Serbia G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SL LTD Sierra Leone 100.0% 6 Spur Road, P. O Box, Freetown, Sierra Leone GROUP 4 SECURICOR S PTE.
LTD. Singapore 100.0% 8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 Annex, 149555 Singapore G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS S PTE.
LTD. Singapore 100.0% 8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 Annex, 149555 Singapore G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SINGAPORE Singapore 100.0% 25.30% 8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 Annex, 149555 Singapore PTE.
LTD. 170 170 G4S G4S plc plc Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Singapore 100.0% 158 Cecil Street, 069 545 #11-01 Singapore, SINGAPORE PTE LIMITED Singapore 100.0% 51 Cuppage Road, #10-18, 229469, Singapore HILL & ASSOCIATES RISK CONSULTING SINGAPORE PTE LTD G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS SK S. R. O. Slovak Republic 100.0% Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SK, A. S. Slovak Republic 100.0% Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic G4S FIRE SERVICES SK, S. R. O Slovak Republic 100.0% Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic Slovak Republic 100.0% Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic G4S TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS SK, S. R. O G4S DRUZBA ZA VAROVANJE D. O. O. Slovenia 96.2% Stegne 21, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia G4S D. O. O.
GROUP 4 FALCK PTY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S SECURITY SERVICES AFRICA South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, PROPRIETARY LTD 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA PTY LTD South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S AVIATION SECURITY SA PTY LTD South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S INTEGRITY ASSESSMENT PTY LTD South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS SOUTH South Africa 100.0% Unit 31, First Floor Waterford Office Park, Corner Witkoppen & Waterford AFRICA PTY.
Road, Fourways 1610, South Africa South Africa 72.2% GRAY SECURITY SERVICES SA Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, PROPRIETARY LTD 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SA PTY LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S INSURANCE SA LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa ELWIERDA GAUTENG PTY LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa CMS MICRO FINANCE PTY LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S EMPOWERMENT VENTURES South Africa 48.4% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, SA PTY LTD 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES SOUTH South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, AFRICA PTY LTD 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S CORRECTION SERVICES South Africa 81.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, BLOEMFONTEIN PTY LTD 0157 Centurion, South Africa GSL REBOUND PTY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa SKYCOM PTY LTD South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa ACCESS AND BEYOND PTY LTD South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa INTEGRATED SKY FORCE SOLUTIONS South Africa 72.2% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, PTY LTD 0157 Centurion, South Africa, 0157 Centurion INDO BRITISH GARMENTS PVT.
LIMITED, South Africa 100.0% SORENTO SUITE, 5 fide HAVILAND CRESCENT, ILL VILLAGGIO PERSEQUOR Pretoria, Gauteng, South Africa INVESTMENT SURVEYS PTY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S DEPOSITA RF PTY LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S ATM ENGINEERING SA PTY LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa INTEGRA PTY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa THETHA TECHNOLOGIES PTY LTD South Africa 74.9% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S AFRICA PROPRIETARY LTD South Africa 100.0% Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS KOREA LTD South Korea 100.0% 13th Floor ILJIN Building, 50-1 Dohwa-dong, 121-716 Mapo-gu Seoul, South Korea G4S SECURITY SERVICES PRIVATE LTD. Sri Lanka 60.0% 21 Vauxhall Street, 2 Colombo, Sri Lanka ARMORGROUP SUDANESE CO LTD Sudan 100.0% 8 Mek Nimer Street, P. O.
Box 47, Khartoum, Sudan ARMORGROUP LIMITED SUDAN Sudan 100.0% 8 Mek Nimer Street, P. O.
Box 47, Khartoum, Sudan GROUP 4 SYRIA LIMITED LIABILITY Syria 29.4% Al-Aasar Building, near the Central Post office, Sinjikdar, Damascus, Syria COMPANY G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100.0% 20F-1, No.
266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei City, Taiwan G4S ATM SOLUTIONS TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100.0% 20F-2, No.
266, sec 1, wun hua 2nd road, Linko Distt, 24448 Taipei City, Taiwan, G4S PROPERTY MANAGEMENT LTD Taiwan 100.0% 20F-1, No.
266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei City, Taiwan Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 171 171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S SECUREWELL SECURE SOLUTIONS Taiwan 100.0% 20F-1, No.
266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei TAIWAN LTD City, Taiwan G4S WEI FUNG SECURE SOLUTIONS Taiwan 100.0% 20F-2, No.
266, sec 1, wun hua 2nd road, Linko Distt, 24448 Taipei City, TAIWAN LTD Taiwan G4S SYSTEM ENGINEERING Taiwan 85.0% 6F.
Taipei City 11493, Taiwan CORPORATION R. O.
C, 22101 Taipei, Taiwan HILL & ASSOCIATES TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100.0% 20F-1, No.
266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei City, Taiwan G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS CO. LTD Taiwan 85.0% 16th Floor, Suite 1, No.
1, Wen-Hwa 2nd Road, Linko Hsiang, Taipei, Taiwan, 22101 Taipei, Taiwan G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS TZ LTD Tanzania 100.0% Plot no.
57, Uporoto Street, Ursino Estate, P. O.
Box 5555, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania ARMORGROUP TANZANIA LTD Tanzania 100.0% TDFL, 3rd Floor Opposite Sheraton Hotel, Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania G4S THAILAND LTD Thailand 97.5% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S SECURITY SERVICES THAILAND LTD Thailand 98.2% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS THAILAND LTD Thailand 97.5% 96 Moo 3, Vibhavadee Rangsit Road, Talad Bangkhen, Laksi, 10210 Bangkok, Thailand INTER-ASIAN ENTERPRISES IAE Thailand 97.4% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, COMPANY LTD Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 0310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Thailand 100% 45 1 Silom 19 Building, 2nd Floor, Soi Silom 19, Silom Road, Silom, 10500 HOLDING THAILAND LTD Bangrak, Bangkok, Thailand G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Thailand 100% 45 1 Silom 19 Building, 2nd Floor, Soi Silom 19, Silom Road, Silom, 10500 THAILAND LTD Bangrak, Bangkok, Thailand ASIAN HOLDING INTERNATIONAL Thailand 95.5% 96 Moo 3, Vibhavadee Rangsit Road, Talad Bangkhen, Laksi, 10210 COMPANY LTD Bangkok, Thailand GUARDIAN ALARMS COMPANY LTD. Thailand 98.3% 43 55 Moo 5, Wiset Rd.
Rawai Sub District, Muang District, Phuket Province, Thailand HILL RISK CONSULTING Thailand 49.0% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, THAILAND CO. LTD Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS 4 THAILAND LIMITED Thailand 48.9% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS 3 THAILAND LIMITED Thailand 48.9% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS 2 THAILAND LIMITED Thailand 48.9% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS 1 THAILAND LIMITED Thailand 48.9% 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S HOLDINGS TRINIDAD LTD Trinidad & Tobago 51.0% 61-63 Edward Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad & Tobago G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS TRINIDAD LTD Trinidad & Tobago 51.0% 61-63 Edward Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad & Tobago, G4S GVENLK HZMETLER Turkey 100.0% Ayazaga Mah.
Ataturk Cad Mezarlik Sok No 1 Ayazaga, Sariyer, Istanbul, ANONM RKET Turkey G4S ELEKTRONK SSTEMLER ANONM Turkey 100.0% Ayazaga Mah.
Ataturk Cad Mezarlik Sok No 1 Ayazaga, Sariyer, Istanbul, RKET Turkey G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS UGANDA LTD Uganda 99.9% Plot 6, Nakasero Road, Kampala, Uganda ALARM PROTECTION SERVICES LTD Uganda 100.0% Plot 53 Lumumba Avenue, Nakasero, Kampala, Uganda US DEFENSE SYSTEMS LLC UGANDA Uganda 100.0% Plot 53 Lumumba Avenue, Nakasero, Kampala, Uganda GROUP 4 SECURITAS LLC Ukraine 99.4% 21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS UKRAINE LTD Ukraine 100.0% 21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS UKRAINE LTD Ukraine 100.0% 21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS LLC United Arab Emirates 49.0% Chain Tower Oriental Travel Building, First Floor, Muroor Street, P. O.
Box 31859 Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates GROUP 4 FALCK SERVICES LLC United Arab Emirates 49.0% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates G4S CASH SERVICES LLC United Arab Emirates 49.0% P. O.
Box 113400, Rsahidiya Dubai, United Arab Emirates GROUP 4 SECURICOR INFORMATION United Arab Emirates 48.5% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates TECHNOLOGY UAE LLC G4S GROUP 4 SECURICOR FACILITY SERVICES United Arab Emirates 48.5% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates LLC G4S SHAMS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES L. L. C United Arab Emirates 48.5% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates G4S FIRST SELECT UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 48.5% P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates G4S ALARM MONITORING SERVICES LLC United Arab Emirates 24.5% P. O.
Box 31859, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates FIRST SELECT INTERNATIONAL LLC United Arab Emirates 48.5% 65610, 65610 Dubai G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS MIDDLE United Arab Emirates 100.0% Unit 1-05, Street W B 4, Airport Free Zone, 54907, UAE, United Arab EAST FZE Emirates G4S EVENTS SERVICES UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 48.5% Dubai, 215634, United Arab Emirates G4S INTERNATIONAL MARITIME United Arab Emirates 100.0% Units # 3007 & 3008, Liwa Heights, Plot # W3 Jumeirah Lakes Towers, SOLUTIONS JLT Dubai, United Arab Emirates G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS MIDDLE United Arab Emirates 100.0% Unit No.
Al Mas 2 D14, Al Mas Tower, Plot No.
LT2, Jumeirah Lake EAST DMCC Tower Dubai, United Arab Emirates 172 172 G4S G4S plc plc Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S UK HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom G4S HOLDINGS 3 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S TECHNOLOGY LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Challenge House, International Drive, GL20 8UQ Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, United Kingdom AMAG TECHNOLOGY LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Challenge House, International Drive, GL20 8UQ Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, United Kingdom G4S SECURITY SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom GROUP 4 LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S 084 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 99.80% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom G4S GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S HOLDINGS 102 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom SECURICOR LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S HOLDINGS 103 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INTERNATIONAL 105 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S AMERICAS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S AVIATION SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S AVIATION FRANCE LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S CASH SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S CASH CENTRES UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES UK United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom LTD G4S SPV HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S MP UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, 127 UK LTD United Kingdom G4S NOMINEES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S GOVERNMENT SERVICES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S TRUSTEES 2 LTD United Kingdom Limited by Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, guarantee United Kingdom G4S MANROYAL INVESTMENTS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S FINANCE LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom FIRST SELECT HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S EM INTERNATIONAL LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S POLICING SOLUTIONS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S GURKHA SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom G4S US HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S MARCH 2008 LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S DEFENCE SYSTEMS EURASIA LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom United Kingdom 100.0% G4S DEFENCE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, LTD United Kingdom G4S DSL HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S HOLDINGS INTERNATIONAL AG United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, LTD United Kingdom Pension trust not part of the consolidation.
Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 173 173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address G4S HOLDINGS UK AG LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S FINANCE MANAGEMENT United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, AG LTD United Kingdom G4S RISK MANAGEMENT LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS IRAQ LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S RISK CONSULTING LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S US INVESTMENTS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S 308 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S 309 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S 182 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S REGIONAL MANAGEMENT UK & I LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S HOLDINGS 305 UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S OVERSEAS HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S GOVERNMENT AND OUTSOURCING United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom SERVICES UK LTD STRATUS INTEGRATED SERVICES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S HEALTH SERVICES UK LTD G4S CASH SOLUTIONS EMPLOYEES' United Kingdom Limited by Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey, CRIMINAL ATTACK FUND LTD guarantee United Kingdom SHIREMOOR INTERNATIONAL United Kingdom 100.0% 6 Kingsbrook House, Kingsclere Park, Kingsclere, RG20 4SW Newbury, ENGINEERING LTD Berkshire, United Kingdom G4S CASH SERVICES CAMBRIDGE LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom G4S ORDNANCE MANAGEMENT LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom IBG HOLDINGS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INTERNATIONAL FINANCE PLC United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S CORPORATE SERVICES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INVESTIGATION SOLUTIONS UK United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom LTD G4S MONITORING United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom TECHNOLOGIES NO.
1 LTD G4S MONITORING United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom TECHNOLOGIES NO.
2 LTD G4S MONITORING TECHNOLOGIES United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom FRANCE LTD G4S MONITORING United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom TECHNOLOGIES LTD G4S FINANCE BRAZIL LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INVESTMENT LONDON LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S INTEGRATED SERVICES HOLDINGS United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom LTD G4S BULLION SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Park Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, United Kingdom G4S FIRE AND SECURITY SYSTEMS LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Site 16 Sydenham Buisness Park Airport Road West, BT3 9LN BELFAST, United Kingdom G4S PATIENT TRANSPORT UK LTD United Kingdom 100.0% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S FINANCING LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom G4S TRUSTEES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Park Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, United Kingdom G4S HOLDING ONE INC United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, fide, United States G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS USA INC. United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States INC. AMAG TECHNOLOGY INC United States 100.0% 20701 Manhattan Place, CA 90501-1829 Torrance, United States TITANIA INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA United States 100.0% 156 College Street, 3 rd Floor, 05401 VT, IS, United States TWC FL 01 INC United States 100.0% 4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States TUHNECKCAW INC United States 100.0% 900 Market Street, Suite 200, DA 19801 Wilmington, Delaware, United States 174 174 G4S G4S plc plc Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016 Financial report Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Registered address AMERICAN GUARD & ALERT INC United States 100.0% 4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States WACKENHUT U. S. PROPERTIES INC United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, fide, United States WACKENHUT FOREIGN PROPERTIES INC United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, fide, United States G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS USA, United States 100.0% PROLOGIS Cargo Center 75, JFK International Airport, North Hangar INC. Road, Suite 210 Jamaica 11430 New York, United States G4S YOUTH SERVICES LLC United States 100.0% 2000 Riveredge Parkway, Suite GL 100, GA 30328 Atlanta, Georgia, United States VEBA TRUST United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States WACKENHUT HOMELAND SECURITY, INC. United States 100.0% 4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States SERVICE AND SUPPLY INTERNATIONAL, United States 100.0% 701 Brazos, Suite 1050, 78701 Austin, Texas, United States INC. G4S COMPLIANCE & INVESTIGATIONS, United States 100.0% 910 Paverstone Drive, 27615 Raleigh, NC, United States INC. G4S TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS USA INC. United States 100.0% 21 North Avenue, MA 01803 Burlington, United States G4S TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE United States 100.0% 21 North Avenue, MA 01803 Burlington, United States SOLUTIONS LLC US DEFENSE SYSTEMS LLC United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide, United States RONCO CONSULTING CORPORATION United States 100.0% 1209 Orange Street, fide 19801 Wilmington, Delaware, United States G4S US INC. United States 100.0% 4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States G4S SECURE INTEGRATION LLC United States 100.0% 1200 Landmark Center, Ste 1300, 68102 Omaha, NE, United States G4S GUATEMALA HOLDING, LLC United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States G4S ELECTRONICA HOLDING, LLC United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States G4S GUATEMALA FACILITY SERVICES, LLC United States 100.0% 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States G4S RETAIL SOLUTIONS USA INC United States 100.0% 2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, fide, United States RENAISSANCE CENTER MANAGEMENT United States 90.9% 601 Abbot Rd.
48823 Lansing, United States COMPANY G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS URUGUAY S. A. Uruguay 80.0% Cufre 2320, Montevideo, Uruguay SETECSA fide VENEZUELA CA Venezuela 30.0% Los Ruices Sur, Calle Milan 1013, Caracas, Venezuela, Venezuela GROUP 4S SECURITY SERVICES YEMEN Yemen 25.0% Off 50 Meter Road, Hadda, 11805 Sana'a, Yemen LTD G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ZAMBIA LTD Zambia 100.0% P. O.
Box 32914, 10 H Kabulonga Road, Lusaka, Zambia SAFETECH COPPERBELT LTD Zambia 100.0% Plot 3144, Mukwa Road, Lusaka, Zambia SAFETECH ZAMBIA LTD Zambia 100.0% Plot 7305, Kambala Road, Lusaka, Zambia Holdings in other undertakings Entities listed below are joint ventures, where the economic interest has been divested and are therefore not included in the consolidation.
% ordinary shares owned Company Name Registered Address by group G4S INVESTMENTS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, Bristol BS1 4DJ, United Kingdom 16.78 G4S JOINT VENTURES LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, Bristol BS1 4DJ, United Kingdom 16.78 ACCOMMODATION SERVICES HOLDINGS LTD 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, West Midlands, WV3 0SR, United Kingdom 8.39 INTEGRATED ACCOMODATION SERVICES PLC 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, West Midlands, WV3 0SR, United Kingdom 8.39 EAST LONDON LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 EAST LONDON LIFT COMPANY LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 EAST LONDON LIFT INVESTMENTS LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 8.39 EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO2 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 EAST LONDON LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES NO2 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO4 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO3 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 ELLAS NO3 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 ELLAS NO4 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 ECD COOKHAM WOOD LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 ECD ONLEY LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 EDUCATION CARE AND DISCIPLINE LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 EDUCATION CARE AND DISCIPLINE THREE LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 G4S JOINT VENTURES FAZAKERLEY LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 FAZAKERLY PRISON SERVICES LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 G4S JOINT VENTURES ONLEY LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 ONLEY PRISON SERVICES LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 G4S plc G4S plc 175 175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Holdings in other undertakings continued % ordinary shares owned Company Name Registered Address by group OCHRE SOLUTIONS HOLDINGS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 3.36 OCHRE SOLUTIONS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 3.36 NORTH WILTSHIRE SCHOOLS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 UK COURT SERVICES MANCHESTER HOLDINGS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 UK COURT SERVICES MANCHESTER LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 WHITE HORSE EDUCATION PARTNERSHIP LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 HULL MATERNITY DEVEOPMENT LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 ALBION HEALTHCARE OXFORD HOLDINGS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 4.19 ALBION HEALTHCARE OXFORD LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 4.19 LIFT HEALTHCARE INVESTMENTS LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 2.85 BEXLEY BROMLEY & GREENWICH LIFT COMPANY LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 BBG HOLDCO LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 BBG LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 BBG HOLDCO NO 2 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 BBG LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES NO 2 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 BHH LIFT COMPANY LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 BHH HOLDCO LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 BHH LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 HEALTHCARE IMPROVEMENT PARTNERSHIP Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 WOVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL LTD WOLVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL HOLDCO LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 WOLVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL LIFT Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD WALSALL HOLDCO LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 WALSALL LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 LONDON LIFTCO PS LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 2.82 Associated companies Company Name % owned by group Profit or loss Registered address G4S-SJC LLC 20 not material 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, United States G4S PARSONS PACIFIC LLC 20 not material 7121 Fairway Drive, Suite 301, 33418 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States Joint Ventures % owned Date of last by group Factors on which joint financial year Company Name Registered address undertakings management is based if not 31 12 PARKSEC LIMITED Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 50.1 Joint venture agreement 3000 San Gwann, Malta PACIFIC BUILDING SERVICES MANAGEMENT Level 6, Era Rumana Building Champions Parade, Port 50 1 director appointed to the LIMITED JV Moresby, Papua New Guinea board BRIDGEND CUSTODIAL SERVICES LIMITED Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 58.45 Joint venture agreement 30th September 8UQ, United Kingdom 20 Joint venture agreement 30th September BLOEMFONTEIN CORRECTIONAL Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, CONTRACTS PTY LIMITED Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa POLICITY OPERATOR LIMITED Virginia 1, Beit Shemesh, Israel 50 Joint venture agreement FORBES G4S SOLUTIONS PVT LTD C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 50 Joint venture agreement 110058 New Delhi, India FEDERAL GAMING CAPE PTY LTD 1 Waterford Mews, Century Boulevard, 7441 Century City, 29.5 Joint venture agreement South Africa GROUP 4 S SECURITY SOLUTIONS CO. WLL P. O.
Box 22063, 13081 Safat, Kuwait 48.5 Joint venture agreement AL MULLA SECURITY SERVICES CO WLL P. O.
Box 117, 13002 Safat, Kuwait 49 Joint venture agreement G4S QATAR S. P. C Villa no.
321, Corner of Abduallah Bin Rawaha Street, C Ring 0 Joint venture agreement Road, P. O.
Box 18592 Doha, Qatar BUSINESS CASH CENTER S. A. Parc Industriel fide la CFCIM, lot No63, Bouskoura, Casablanca, 45.7 Joint venture agreement Morocco 176 176 G4S G4S plc plc Integr Integrated ated Repor Report t and and Accounts Accounts 2016 2016
