78 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the the Directors Remuneration Report and financial statements in Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under company law the directors have prepared Each of the directors whose names and functions are listed on the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance pages 50 and 51, confirms that to the best of their knowledge: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted 5 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in by the European Union.
Under company law, the directors must not accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and approve the financial statements, unless they are satisfied that they fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the the Group: and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
5 the Strategic Report contained in pages 1 to 49 includes a fair In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: review of the development and performance of the business 5 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and the position of the Group, together with a description of the consistently: principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
5 make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable For and on behalf of the Board and prudent: Peter Truscott 5 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been Chief Executive followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 14 September 2016 explained in the financial statements: and Forward looking statements 5 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, Forward looking statements have been made by the directors in good unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will faith using information up until the date on which they approved this continue in business.
Forward looking statements should be regarded with The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting caution due to uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The Groups businesses are generally not affected by seasonality.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
