Directors responsibilities Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of Directors responsibility statement the annual report and the financial statements Each of the directors, the names of whom are set out on pages 58 and 59 of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and her knowledge: the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements in this annual report have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that financial position and results of the Company and the law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in Group: and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial the management report required by DTR4.1.
8R contained in statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
the strategic report and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business Under company law the directors must not approve the financial and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair whole, together with a description of the principal risks and view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and uncertainties they face.
of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are The strategic report from the inside front cover to page 55 required to: includes information on the Group structure, the performance of the business and the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The select suitable accounting policies and then apply financial statements on pages 110 to 185 include information on them consistently: the Group and the Companys financial results, financial outlook, make judgments and estimates that are reasonable cash flow and net debt and balance sheet positions.
Notes 22, 26, and prudent: 27, 30 and 31 to the consolidated financial statements include for the group financial statements, state whether they have information on the Groups investments, cash and cash equivalents, been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: borrowings, derivatives, financial risk management objectives, hedging policies and exposure to interest, foreign exchange, credit, for the parent company financial statements, state whether liquidity and market risks.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Pages 110 to 176 contain information on the performance of the the parent company financial statements: and Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis borrowing facilities.
Further information, including financial risk unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and parent company will continue in business.
hedging activities, is given in note 31 to the financial statements.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern any time the financial position of the parent company and enable basis in preparing the financial statements.
them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking Directors are also required to provide a broader assessment of such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets viability over a longer period, which can be found on page 55 of of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and the annual report and accounts.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the responsible for preparing a strategic report, Directors report, information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance performance, business model and strategy.
statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The statement of directors responsibilities and the strategic The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity report areapproved by a duly authorised committee of the of the corporate and financial information included on the board of directors on 28 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Tim Weller, chief financial officer.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Tim Weller Chief Financial Officer 28 March 2017 102 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
