Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for The Directors are responsible for The Annual report and financial preparing the financial statements in keeping adequate accounting records statements, taken as a whole, are accordance with applicable law and that are sufficient to show and explain considered by the Board to be fair, regulations.
the Companys transactions and balanced and understandable and disclose with reasonable accuracy at provide the information necessary Company law requires the Directors to any time the financial position of the for shareholders to assess the prepare financial statements for each Company and enable them to ensure Companys position and performance, financial year.
Under the Law they that the financial statements comply business model and strategy.
have elected to prepare the financial with Companies Jersey Law 1991. statements in accordance with By order of the Board They have general responsibility for International Financial Reporting taking such steps as are reasonably Standards and applicable law.
open to them to safeguard the assets Under company law, the Directors of the Company and to prevent and Mr Ian Reeves CBE must not approve the financial detect fraud and other irregularities.
Chairman statements unless they are satisfied The Directors are responsible for the 13 December 2016 that they give a true and fair view of maintenance and integrity of the the state of affairs of the Company and corporate and financial information of the profit or loss of the Company for included on the Companys website.
In preparing these Legislation in Jersey governing the financial statements, the Directors preparation and dissemination of are required to: financial statements may differ from select suitable accounting policies 1 legislation in other jurisdictions.
and then apply them consistently: Directors responsibility statement make judgements and estimates In accordance with the FCAs that are reasonable and prudent: Disclosure and Transparency Rules, state whether applicable accounting each of the Directors, whose names standards have been followed, are set out on page 34, confirms that to subject to any material departures the best of his or her knowledge that: disclosed and explained in the the financial statements have been financial statements: and prepared in accordance with IFRS prepare the financial statements on as adopted by the European Union, the going concern basis unless it is and give a true and fair view of the inappropriate to presume that the assets, liabilities, financial position Company will continue in business.
and profit or loss of the Company: and the strategic report, including the Directors report, includes a fair, balanced review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
Where financial statements are published on the Companys website.
