STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2016 the transaction.
Where practicable, transactions involving foreign 1 Accounting policies and presentation currencies are protected by forward contracts.
Assets and liabilities The Groups significant accounting policies are summarised below.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such transactional exchange Basis of preparation differences are taken into account in determining profit before tax.
The consolidated financial statements the statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Material foreign currency movements arising on the translation of Standards IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by the European intra-group balances where there is no intention of repayment are Union.
These statements have been prepared under the historical treated as part of the net investment in a subsidiary and are cost method except where other measurement bases are required recognised through equity.
Movements on other intra-group to be applied under IFRS as set out below.
balances are recognised through the income statement.
These statements have been prepared using all standards and The Groups presentational currency is sterling.
On consolidation, interpretations required for financial periods beginning 1 January results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted 2016.
No standards or interpretations have been adopted before the investments are translated to sterling at average exchange rates required implementation date.
except in the case of material transactions when the actual spot rate is used where it more accurately reflects the underlying substance Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange interpretations rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such translational exchange The Group adopted all applicable amendments to standards with differences are taken to equity.
an effective date in 2016 with no material impact on its results, assets and liabilities.
All other accounting policies have been Profits and losses on the realisation of foreign currency net applied consistently.
investments include the accumulated net exchange differences that have arisen on the retranslation of the foreign currency net Basis of consolidation investments since 1 January 2004 up to the date of realisation.
The statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group and the Groups share of Presentation of the income statement the results and equity of its joint ventures and associates together IFRS is not fully prescriptive as to the format of the income statement.
Line items and subtotals have been presented on the face of the income statement in addition to those required under IFRS.
Subsidiaries are entities over which, either directly or indirectly, the Company has control.
The Company controls an entity when it is Sales shown in the income statement are those of subsidiaries.
exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement Operating profit is profit before taxation, finance costs and the share with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through of post-tax earnings of equity accounted investments.
In order to its power over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold achieve consistency and comparability between reporting periods, during the year are included in the Groups results from the date of operating profit is analysed to show separately the results of normal acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
All business combinations trading performance and individually significant charges and credits.
are accounted for by the purchase method.
Assets, liabilities and Such items arise because of their size or nature and comprise: contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value.
the impact of the annual goodwill impairment review: Intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are asset impairment and restructuring charges which arise from eliminated.
events that are significant to any reportable segment: Non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets earnings and equity attributable to third-party shareholders.
arising on business combinations: Equity accounted investments changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has a long-term material currency translation movements arising on intra-group interest and exercises joint control with its partners over their funding: financial and operating policies.
In all cases, voting rights are 50% or lower.
Associated undertakings are entities, being neither gains or losses on changes in Group structure which do not meet the definition of discontinued operations or which the Group views a subsidiary nor a joint venture, where the Group has a significant influence.
Equity accounted investments are accounted for by the as capital rather than revenue in nature: equity method.
The Groups share of equity includes goodwill arising profits or losses arising from business combinations including fair on acquisition.
value adjustments to pre-combination shareholdings, changes in estimates of contingent consideration made after the provisional Foreign currencies fair value period and material expenses and charges incurred on Subsidiaries and equity accounted investments account in the a business combination: and currency of their primary economic environment of operation, determined having regard to the currency which mainly influences significant pension scheme curtailments and settlements.
Transactions are translated at exchange rates approximating to the rate ruling on the date of the transaction except in the case of material transactions when actual spot rate may be used where it more accurately reflects the underlying substance of GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123
