STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2016 the transaction.
Where practicable, transactions involving foreign 1 Accounting policies and presentation currencies are protected by forward contracts.
Assets and liabilities The Groups significant accounting policies are summarised below.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such transactional exchange Basis of preparation differences are taken into account in determining profit before tax.
The consolidated financial statements the statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Material foreign currency movements arising on the translation of Standards IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by the European intra-group balances where there is no intention of repayment are Union.
These statements have been prepared under the historical treated as part of the net investment in a subsidiary and are cost method except where other measurement bases are required recognised through equity.
Movements on other intra-group to be applied under IFRS as set out below.
balances are recognised through the income statement.
These statements have been prepared using all standards and The Groups presentational currency is sterling.
On consolidation, interpretations required for financial periods beginning 1 January results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted 2016.
No standards or interpretations have been adopted before the investments are translated to sterling at average exchange rates required implementation date.
except in the case of material transactions when the actual spot rate is used where it more accurately reflects the underlying substance Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange interpretations rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such translational exchange The Group adopted all applicable amendments to standards with differences are taken to equity.
an effective date in 2016 with no material impact on its results, assets and liabilities.
All other accounting policies have been Profits and losses on the realisation of foreign currency net applied consistently.
investments include the accumulated net exchange differences that have arisen on the retranslation of the foreign currency net Basis of consolidation investments since 1 January 2004 up to the date of realisation.
The statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group and the Groups share of Presentation of the income statement the results and equity of its joint ventures and associates together IFRS is not fully prescriptive as to the format of the income statement.
Line items and subtotals have been presented on the face of the income statement in addition to those required under IFRS.
Subsidiaries are entities over which, either directly or indirectly, the Company has control.
The Company controls an entity when it is Sales shown in the income statement are those of subsidiaries.
exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement Operating profit is profit before taxation, finance costs and the share with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through of post-tax earnings of equity accounted investments.
In order to its power over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold achieve consistency and comparability between reporting periods, during the year are included in the Groups results from the date of operating profit is analysed to show separately the results of normal acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
All business combinations trading performance and individually significant charges and credits.
are accounted for by the purchase method.
Assets, liabilities and Such items arise because of their size or nature and comprise: contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value.
the impact of the annual goodwill impairment review: Intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are asset impairment and restructuring charges which arise from eliminated.
events that are significant to any reportable segment: Non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets earnings and equity attributable to third-party shareholders.
arising on business combinations: Equity accounted investments changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has a long-term material currency translation movements arising on intra-group interest and exercises joint control with its partners over their funding: financial and operating policies.
In all cases, voting rights are 50% or lower.
Associated undertakings are entities, being neither gains or losses on changes in Group structure which do not meet the definition of discontinued operations or which the Group views a subsidiary nor a joint venture, where the Group has a significant influence.
Equity accounted investments are accounted for by the as capital rather than revenue in nature: equity method.
The Groups share of equity includes goodwill arising profits or losses arising from business combinations including fair on acquisition.
value adjustments to pre-combination shareholdings, changes in estimates of contingent consideration made after the provisional Foreign currencies fair value period and material expenses and charges incurred on Subsidiaries and equity accounted investments account in the a business combination: and currency of their primary economic environment of operation, determined having regard to the currency which mainly influences significant pension scheme curtailments and settlements.
Transactions are translated at exchange rates approximating to the rate ruling on the date of the transaction except in the case of material transactions when actual spot rate may be used where it more accurately reflects the underlying substance of GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2016 contracts distinct from the sale of product service in the aftermarket 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued phase.
This generally has the effect of lower margins recognised Presentation of the income statement continued during the early phase of contracts with higher margins earned The Groups post-tax share of equity accounted investment earnings during the aftermarket phase.
The Group does not believe that is shown as a separate component of profit before tax.
The Groups margin should be spread evenly over the two distinct phases of share of material restructuring and impairment charges, amortisation RRSP contracts or that accounting losses should be deferred, of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations because it does not consider there is sufficient contractual certainty and other net financing charges and their related taxation are over the future revenue, should programme volumes not materialise.
separately identified in the related note.
Design and build Net financing costs are analysed to show separately interest This revenue stream affects a discrete number of businesses, payable, interest receivable and other net financing charges.
Other primarily in the Aerospace segment but also on a smaller scale in net financing charges include the interest charge on net defined the Automotive segment.
Generally revenue is only recognised on benefit plans, specific changes in fair value on net investment the sale of product as detailed above, however, on occasions cash hedges and unwind of discounts on fair value amounts established is received in advance of work performed to compensate the Group on business combinations.
for costs incurred in design and development activities.
Where such amounts are received and the risk and rewards of ownership over Revenue recognition the development assets are not deemed to have been transferred, Sales amounts are deferred on the balance sheet in customer advances Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the and deferred income and taken to revenue as the Group performs consideration receivable which generally equates to the invoiced its contractual obligations either on delivery of product or milestones.
amount, excluding sales taxes and net of allowances for returns, early settlement discounts and rebates.
The Group has three principal Due to the nature of the design and build contracts there can be revenue streams: significant learning curves while the Group optimises its production processes.
During this early phase of these contracts, all costs Sales of product including any start-up losses are taken directly to the income This revenue stream accounts for the overwhelming majority of statement.
Contracts in the Automotive and Land Systems segments operate almost exclusively on this basis, and it also covers a high Other income proportion of the Aerospace segment revenues.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Invoices for goods are raised when the risks and rewards of Sales and other income is recognised in the income statement when ownership have passed which, dependent upon contractual terms, it can be reliably measured and its collectability is reasonably assured.
may be at the point of despatch, acceptance by the customer or, Property, plant and equipment in Aerospace, certification by the customer.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Many businesses in Automotive and Land Systems recognise an depreciation and impairment charges.
element of revenue via a surcharge or similar raw material cost Cost recovery mechanism.
The surcharge invoiced or credited is generally Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in based on prior period movement in raw material price indices applied bringing the asset into use and borrowing costs on qualifying assets, to current period deliveries.
Other cost recoveries are recorded defined as an asset or programme where the period of capitalisation according to the customer agreement.
In those instances where is more than 12 months and the capital value is more than 25 million.
recovery of such increases is guaranteed, irrespective of the level Where freehold and long leasehold properties were carried at of future deliveries, revenue is recognised, or due allowance made, valuation on 23 March 2000, these values have been retained as book in the same period as the cost movement takes place.
values and therefore deemed cost at the date of the IFRS transition.
Risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSPs Where assets are in the course of construction at the balance sheet This revenue stream affects a small number of businesses, date they are classified as capital work in progress.
Transfers are exclusively in the Aerospace segment.
Revenue is recognised made to other asset categories when they are available for use.
under RRSPs for both the sale of product as detailed above and sales of services, which are recognised by reference to the stage of Depreciation completion based on services performed to date.
The assessment Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or capital work in of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, progress.
In the case of all other categories of property, plant and but will generally be based on: costs incurred to the extent these equipment, depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the relate to services performed up to the reporting date: achievement course of the financial year from the date the asset is available for use.
of contractual milestones where appropriate: or flying hours or Depreciation is applied to specific classes of asset so as to reduce equivalent for long-term aftermarket arrangements.
them to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, which In most RRSP contracts there are two separate phases where are reviewed annually.
the Group earns revenue: sale of products principally to engine manufacturers and aftermarket support.
Due to the nature of the industry, the sale of products to engine manufacturers can be deeply discounted with more favourable pricing in the aftermarket phase.
The Group accounts for the sale of product in early phases of 124 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The range of depreciation lives are: Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised at their fair value when the nature, characteristics and risks of the Years derivative are not closely related to the host contract.
Gains and losses Freehold buildings Up to 50 arising on the remeasurement of these embedded derivatives at each Steel powder production plant 18 balance sheet date are taken to the income statement.
General plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings 6 to 15 Goodwill Computers 3 to 5 Goodwill consists of the excess of the fair value of the consideration Commercial vehicles and cars 4 to 5 over the fair value of the identifiable intangible and tangible assets net of the fair value of the liabilities including contingencies of Property, plant and equipment is reviewed at least annually for businesses acquired at the date of acquisition.
Where an impairment charge arises expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred.
in the ordinary course of business it is recorded in trading profit.
If an impairment charge arises as a part of a wider review of a cash Goodwill in respect of business combinations of subsidiaries is generating unit it is presented separately within operating profit.
recognised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an equity accounted investment is included in the carrying value Financial assets and liabilities of the investment.
Financial liabilities are recorded for arrangements where payments, or similar transfers of financial resources, are unavoidable or Goodwill is not amortised but tested at least annually for impairment.
Interest payable on these balances is recognised using Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses the effective interest rate method.
that arise from the annual assessment of its carrying value.
To the extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, Borrowings are measured initially at fair value which usually equates determined as the higher of estimated discounted future net cash to proceeds received and includes transaction costs.
Borrowings are flows or recoverable amount on a fair value less cost of disposal subsequently measured at amortised cost.
basis, goodwill is written down to the recoverable amount and an Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand impairment charge is recognised in the income statement.
deposits, and overdrafts together with highly liquid investments Other intangible assets of less than 90 days maturity.
Other financial assets comprise Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated investments with more than 90 days until maturity.
Unless an amortisation and impairment charges.
enforceable right of set-off exists and there is an intention to net settle, the components of cash and cash equivalents are reflected Development costs and participation fees on a gross basis in the balance sheet.
Where development expenditure results in a new or substantially improved product or process and it is probable that this expenditure Other financial assets and liabilities, including short-term receivables will be recovered, it is capitalised.
Cost comprises development and payables, are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently expenditure and borrowing costs on qualifying assets or fair value measured at amortised cost less any impairment provision unless on initial recognition when as a result of a business combination.
the impact of the time value of money is considered to be material.
In addition, payments made to engine manufacturers and original Derivative financial instruments equipment manufacturers for participation fees relating to risk and The Group does not trade in derivative financial instruments.
revenue sharing partnerships and long-term agreements, are carried Derivative financial instruments including forward foreign currency forward in intangible assets to the extent that they can be recovered contracts and cross-currency interest rate swaps are used by the from future sales.
Group to manage its exposure to risk associated with the variability Amortisation is charged from the date the asset is available for use.
in cash flows in relation to both recognised assets or liabilities or In Aerospace, amortisation is charged over the assets life up to forecast transactions.
All derivative financial instruments are a maximum of 15 years for all programmes other than risk and measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
revenue sharing partnerships where a maximum life of 25 years Where derivative financial instruments are not designated as is assumed, either on a straight-line basis or, where sufficient or not determined to be effective hedges, any gain or loss on contractual terms exist providing clarity over volumes that do not remeasurement is taken to the income statement.
Where derivative reflect a linear progression, a unit of production method is applied.
financial instruments are designated as and are effective as cash In Automotive, amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over flow hedges, any gain or loss on remeasurement is held in equity the assets life up to a maximum of seven years.
and recycled through the income statement when the designated Capitalised development costs, including participation fees, are item is transacted, unless related to the purchase of a business, subject to annual impairment reviews with any resulting impairments when recycled against consideration.
Where derivative financial charged to the income statement.
instruments are designated as and are effective as net investment hedges, any gain or loss on remeasurement is held in equity and Research expenditure and development expenditure not qualifying only recycled when the underlying investment is sold or disposed.
for capitalisation is written off as incurred.
If there is a small amount of ineffectiveness but the overall effectiveness is still in the range 80% to 125%, this ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement.
Gains or losses on derivative financial instruments no longer designated as effective hedges are also taken directly to the income statement.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2016 Pensions and post-employment benefits 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued The Groups pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit Other intangible assets continued and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
In the UK Computer software and in certain overseas companies, pension arrangements are made Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant through externally funded defined benefit schemes, the contributions or equipment its costs are capitalised and categorised as intangible to which are based on the advice of independent actuaries or assets.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
In other overseas in bringing the asset into use.
Amortisation is provided on a straightcompanies, funds are retained within the business to provide for line basis over its useful economic life which is in the range of three retirement obligations.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution and Assets acquired on business combinations non-operating defined benefit arrangements which provide certain employees intangible assets with defined post-employment healthcare benefits.
Non-operating intangible assets are intangible assets that are The Group accounts for all post-employment defined benefit acquired as a result of a business combination, which arise from schemes through recognition of the schemes surpluses or deficits contractual or other legal rights and are not transferable or separable.
on the balance sheet at the end of each year.
Remeasurement of On initial recognition they are measured at fair value.
Amortisation is defined benefit plans is included in other comprehensive income.
charged on a straight-line basis to the income statement over their Current and past service costs, curtailments and settlements are expected useful lives which are: recognised within operating profit.
Interest charges on net defined Years benefit plans are recognised in other net financing charges.
Marketing-related assets For defined contribution arrangements, the cost charged to the brands and trademarks 20 to 50 income statement represents the Groups contributions to the agreements not to compete Life of agreement relevant schemes in the year in which they fall due.
Customer-related assets Government refundable advances order backlog Length of backlog Government refundable advances are reported in Trade and other other customer contracts and relationships 2 to 25 payables in the balance sheet.
Refundable advances include Technology-based assets 5 to 25 amounts advanced by government, accrued interest and directly attributable costs.
Refundable advances are provided to the Group Inventories to part-finance expenditures on specific development programmes.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net The advances are provided on a risk sharing basis, i. e. repayment realisable value with due allowance being made for obsolete or levels are determined subject to the success of the related slow-moving items.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out or programme.
Balances are held at amortised cost and interest weighted average cost basis.
Cost includes raw materials, direct is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
labour, other direct costs and the relevant proportion of works Share-based payments overheads assuming normal levels of activity.
Net realisable value Share options granted to employees and share-based arrangements is the estimated selling price less estimated selling costs and costs put in place since 7 November 2002 are valued at the date of grant to complete.
or award using an appropriate option pricing model and are charged Taxation to operating profit over the performance or vesting period of the Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income scheme.
The annual charge is modified to take account of shares statement unless they relate to items recognised directly in other forfeited by employees who leave during the performance or comprehensive income when the related tax is also recognised vesting period and, in the case of non-market related performance in other comprehensive income.
conditions, where it becomes unlikely the option will vest.
Full provision is made for deferred tax on all temporary differences Provisions resulting from the difference between the carrying value of an asset Provisions for onerous or loss-making contracts, warranty exposures, or liability in the consolidated financial statements and its tax base.
environmental matters, restructuring, employee obligations and legal The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected manner of claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and balance sheet date.
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are payments.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
only recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered against future taxable profits.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits of joint ventures.
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits of overseas value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
Any increase branches and subsidiaries except to the extent that it is probable that in provisions due to discounting, only recorded where material, is such earnings will be remitted to the parent in the foreseeable future.
recognised as interest expense within other net financing charges.
126 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and Implications for the Group interpretations issued but not yet adopted As noted in the revenue recognition accounting policy, the Group The Group does not intend to adopt any standard, revision or currently has three principal revenue streams: amendment before the required implementation date.
At the date Sales of product.
of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards which have not been applied in these financial statements were in Risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSPs.
issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been Design and build.
adopted by the EU : Sale of product IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective from 1 January 2018.
The overwhelming majority of Group revenue is earned from the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective from sale of product, with a majority of the contracts in the Automotive 1 January 2018. businesses and a high proportion of the Aerospace business deriving sales on this basis.
IFRS 16 Leases effective from 1 January 2019.
Under IFRS 15 sales will be recognised as the customer obtains control These standards and other revisions to standards and interpretations of the goods and services promised in contracts i. e. performance which have an implementation date in 2017 or thereafter are being obligations and this is likely to be similar to the point when risks and assessed.
Further details on the potential implications of IFRS 9 and rewards of ownership are passed to the customer, either at the point IFRS 16 will be provided when conclusions have been drawn from of despatch or acceptance by the customer.
Accordingly there is assessment work.
expected to be little impact on this revenue stream from adoption IFRS 15 of the new standard.
Background However, as part of the impact assessment phase, contractual price The Group will adopt IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with downs have been identified in some contracts and under IFRS 15 Customers for the year ending 31 December 2018 which will the value of this material right for the customer would need to be change the way that revenue is recognised and expand disclosure recognised on all relevant product sold.
Effectively the new standard for revenue arrangements.
This new standard may be adopted using takes a view that where products sold are substantially the same, the full retrospective method, where changes would be applied to a relatively consistent price should apply to all sales.
This would have the comparative information and the cumulative effect recorded the impact of deferring some early invoiced revenue to later units sold.
at 1 January 2017 or the modified retrospective method, where the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recorded at RRSP contracts 1 January 2018.
The implications of this choice are still being assessed.
While RRSP contracts only affect a small number of businesses in the Group, exclusively in the Aerospace division, the implications As IFRS 15 will supersede all existing revenue guidance, it could of the new accounting standard could be most significant on these impact revenue and cost recognition on a significant number of revenues during both the sale of product phase and sales of services contracts across all our business segments, as well as business aftermarket phase.
processes and information technology systems.
With the breadth of this assessment across our multinational group and complexity Due to the nature of RRSP contracts, OE products sold to engine of judgements involved, particularly in the Aerospace business, manufacturers are deeply discounted with more favourable pricing evaluation of the effect of IFRS 15 will continue through 2017. in the aftermarket phase.
It is likely that IFRS 15 will spread revenues more evenly over the performance obligations identified in the While the timing of revenue could be changed, there will be arrangement.
Interpretation is evolving in this area as the implication no impact on either timing or quantum of cash flows.
of increasing margins during the early phase of contracts through Progress towards adoption recognition of contract assets i. e. unbilled receivables on the We have monitored the standard setting process, including balance sheet, without contractual certainty over future volumes, amendments to the standard following its issuance and participated needs to be fully considered and understood.
In addition, IFRS 15 in aerospace and defence forums to understand the impact on could also significantly impact contracts where the Group has already this division.
delivered most of its performance obligations during the OE phase and has little or no further work to perform in the aftermarket phase.
We commenced our evaluation of the implications of IFRS 15 during In this scenario, revenue that is currently recognised during the 2016, by evaluating its impact on a select number of contracts across aftermarket phase would be recorded earlier, on completion of our divisions.
With this baseline understanding, we have now performance obligations, based on the best estimate of total developed a draft project plan in order to adopt the new standard on expected variable consideration.
We have briefed executive management, the senior finance community and the Groups Audit Committee on our progress towards adoption and anticipate being able to estimate the impacts of adopting IFRS 15 in the second half of 2017.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2016 Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued The Groups significant accounting policies are set out above.
The IFRS 15 continued preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires Implications for the Group continued the use of estimates, subjective judgement and assumptions that Design and build may affect the amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet This revenue stream affects a discrete number of businesses, primarily date and reported profit and earnings for the year.
The Directors base in the Aerospace division but also on a smaller scale in the Automotive these estimates, judgements and assumptions on a combination of division.
Where cash is received from customers in advance of work past experience, professional expert advice and other evidence that performed to compensate the Group for costs incurred in design and is relevant to the particular circumstance.
development activities, such amounts are considered in the context Accounting policies where the Directors consider the more complex of risk and rewards of ownership over the development assets.
estimates, judgements and assumptions have to be made are those This can lead to deferred income on the balance sheet, which is in respect of post-employment obligations note 24, derivative and subsequently taken to revenue as the Group performs its contractual other financial instruments notes 4b and 20, provisions note 21 obligations either on delivery of product or on meeting certain and impairment of non-current assets note 11c.
Details of the performance milestones.
principal judgements, assumptions and estimates made are set out Often the non-recurring price is collected over a specific number in the related notes as identified.
of products, based on the expected volume of orders at the time of negotiating the framework agreement.
However, similar to the price down example noted earlier, IFRS 15 considers there to be a material right for the customer where they are able to buy future units at a reduced price for expected volumes exceeding the recovery period of incremental pricing.
This is also the case in contracts where customers contract to explicitly fund capital expenditure.
In both of these examples a proportion of revenue invoiced could be deferred under IFRS 15 from earlier products sold to units sold later in the arrangement.
However, further assessment needs to be undertaken to take account of any changes in pricing that reflect the impact of potential transfer of intellectual property rights.
Other matters Participation fees, which are currently amortised through cost of sales will likely be taken as a reduction of revenue.
In a limited number of arrangements, the Group receives free issue raw materials and is deemed to be the principal not agent in a transaction, taking control of these materials before integrating them with other goods and selling the combined outputs back to the customer.
In this scenario there will be a requirement to recognise the cost of materials at fair value and gross up revenues for an equivalent amount.
128 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
