STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF GKN PLC 1 Significan t accounting policies and basis 2 Income Statement of preparation As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the The separate financial statements of the Company are presented Company has elected not to present its own Income Statement as required by the Companies Act 2006.
GKN plc is a public for the year.
The profit for the year ended 31 December 2016 was company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in the UK, 6 million 2015: 3 million.
and registered in England and Wales with the registration number Auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was 04191106.
Its registered office is PO Box 55, Ipsley House, Ipsley 0.4 million 2015: 0.5 million.
They have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention 3 Fixed asset investments except where other measurement bases are required to be applied Cost and net book amount m and in accordance with IFRS under Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
In accordance with At 1 January 2016 3,602 FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption not Additions share-based payments 5 to disclose transactions with related parties.
As the consolidated At 31 December 2016 3,607 financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS 7, the Company is exempt from further disclosure of financial A full list of investments in subsidiaries and other undertakings is instruments in accordance with FRS 101. disclosed in note 5.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have 4 Share capital been applied consistently in both years presented.
Share capital disclosure is shown in note 22 of the consolidated Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less financial statements.
Treasury shares GKN shares which have been purchased and not cancelled are held as treasury shares and deducted from shareholders equity.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The Company has no employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments that are made available to employees of the Companys subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Companys investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Income Statement Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Current tax is recognised in the income statement unless items relate to equity.
Dividends The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the Annual General Meeting while interim dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 169
