Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 155 Glossary PQA AGM Annual General Meeting.
Genomics The study of the genome, Pork Quality Assurance.
which is the DNA sequence of an animals Artificial insemination AI Using chromosomes.
Progeny tested Elite animals whose semen collected from a bull or boar to genetic value as a parent has been tested impregnate a cow or sow when in estrus.
Gilt A young female pig, which has not and validated through the performance of Artificial insemination allows a genetically yet given birth.
superior male to be used to mate with many more females than would be GMS ABSs Genetic Management System, PRRSv Porcine Reproductive and possible with natural mating.
which creates a genetic solution tailored Respiratory Syndrome Virus.
to each individual dairy producer to obtain Biosecurity The precautions taken to improved herd genetics.
reduce the chance of transmitting disease agents from one livestock operation Grandparent The relationship of a R&D Research and development.
breeding pig to the generation of terminal market pigs.
A grandparent produces RMS ABSs Reproductive Management Boar A male pig.
parents, who in turn produce the System, which is a systematic approach to commercial generation of terminal pigs.
maximising pregnancy production and its BRD Bovine Respiratory Disease, a contribution to herd profitability.
complex, bacterial and viral infection that Group Genus plc and its subsidiary causes lung disease in cattle particularly companies.
calves and is often fatal.
RWD ABSs Real World Data System of CPI Consumer Price Index.
observed performance data from many IVB In Vitro Brasil S. A. dairy herds.
CRISPR-Cas 9 Technology which accurately targets and cuts DNA to In vitro fertilisation IVF The Sire The male parent of an animal.
produce precise and controllable changes fertilisation of an oocyte with semen to the genome.
outside an animal in a laboratory for Sire line The male line selected for traits transfer into a surrogate.
Index Indices A formula incorporating Sow A female pig which has given birth DSBP Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
economically important traits for ranking at least once.
the genetic potential of animals as parents EPS Earnings per share.
Straw A narrow tube used to package frozen bull semen.
Farrow When a sow gives birth topiglets.
Integrated pork producer Producers of pork typically involved in raising animals Stud Locations where bulls or boars GELT Genus Executive Leadership Team.
to slaughter weight all the way through to are housed and their semen collected, packaged and or branded pork products.
evaluated, diluted into multiple doses Gender skew The ability to influence straws and packaged, ready for shipping the proportion of offspring being of a IP Intellectual property.
Trait A measurable characteristic that Genetic gain The change of the genetic may be a target for genetic selection.
make up of a particular animal population Line Multiple animals that have been in response to having selected parents that mated together in a closed breeding TransitionRight Genus ABSs patentexcelled genetically for important traits.
Pure lines can have their pending genetic selection tool to help origins in one founding breed or in prevent multiple post calving metabolic severalbreeds.
Genetic lag The amount of time required disorders that occur during transition.
to disseminate genetic gain from a Market pig equivalents MPE nucleus herd to the commercial customer.
Unit A straw of frozen bull semen or Atheoretical measure of the number of tube bag of fresh boar semen sold to terminal pigs, of which each pig accounts Genetic nucleus A specialised pig herd, acustomer.
for half a male MPE and half a female MPE, where Genus PIC keeps its pure lines.
produced by each invoiced product.
Pigsare genetically tested at the nucleus Terminal boars The male pig that is used to select the best animals to produce to mate with a parent female to produce Multiplier A producer whose farm thenext generation.
The farm crosses together two lines of Genomic bull A bull which has been grandparents, multiplying the number assessed through genomic testing.
of genetically improved parents that are Thistypically refers to bulls which have available for sale.
PEDv Porcine epidemic diarrhoea virus, Genomically tested An animal that has which causes older pigs to lose weight been DNA profiled.
andis usually fatal for newborn piglets.
