270 GSK Annual Report 2016 Other statutory disclosures US law and regulation A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance Exchange NYSE in the form of ADSs.
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with NYSE rules generally accepted accounting principles In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US, they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any provided that we explain any significant variations.
This explanation changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be accessed from the period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC EDGAR database or materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the via our website.
NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require us companys internal control over financial reporting, and they have to le annual and interim written afrmations concerning the Audit & disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal control Risk Committee and our statement on significant differences in over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the ARC, all corporate governance.
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 reasonably likely to affect adversely the companys ability to record, Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the US, process, summarise and report financial information, and any fraud Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley regardless of materiality involving persons that have a significant is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with financial role in the companys internal control over financial reporting.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a with the participation of its management, including the CEO and Disclosure Committee.
The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups and to the Audit & Risk Committee.
It is chaired by the Company disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2016.
Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, corporate communications and investor relations.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts are of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls invited to attend its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility for and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving determining the disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility their control objectives.
for the timely ling of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
In 2016, the Committee met The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certications and 18 times.
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures in March 2017, following which the certicates Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F will be led with the SEC as part of our Groups Form 20-F. contain a statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk Committee ARC is an audit committee financial expert as dened Section 404: Managements annual report on internal control by Sarbanes-Oxley.
Such a statement for the relevant member of the over financial reporting ARC Judy Lewent is included in the Audit & Risk Committee report In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbaneson page 97 and in her biography on page 85.
Additional disclosure Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 of Sarbanesthe companys internal control over financial reporting as dened in Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and procedures and internal Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act control over financial reporting.
of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act : Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports management is responsible for establishing and maintaining Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
CFO to complete formal certications, conrming that: Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F accordance with IFRS contains no material misstatements or omissions management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other internal control over financial reporting based on the framework, financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the financial condition, results of operations and cash ows as of the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report on Commission COSO Form 20-F there have been no changes in the Groups internal control over they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure financial reporting during 2016 that have materially affected, or are controls and procedures that ensure that material information is reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal control made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of over financial reporting these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control of such evaluation being contained in the annual report on over financial reporting as at 31 December 2016 and its Form 20-F conclusion will be led as part of the Groups Form 20-F, and 271 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information US law and regulation continued  LLP, which has audited the consolidated The Group has no direct knowledge of the identity of its distributors financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December downstream customers in Iran, and it is possible that these 2016, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal customers include entities, such as government-owned hospitals control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
5 of and pharmacies, that are owned or controlled directly the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
or indirectly by the Iranian government or by persons or entities Their audit report will be led with the Groups Form 20-F. sanctioned in connection with terrorism or proliferation activities.
Because the Group has no direct knowledge of its distributors Section 13 r of the Exchange Act customers, it cannot establish the proportion of gross revenue or Section 13 r of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make specic sales potentially attributable to entities afliated with the Iranian disclosure in their annual reports of certain types of dealings with government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities.
As a Iran, including transactions or dealings with government-owned result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues 2 million entities, as well as dealings with entities sanctioned for activities and net profits 1 million from the Groups sales to Iran in 2016. related to terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are not prohibited by US law and do not The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical involve US persons.
The Group does not have a legal entity based in facilities in Lebanon may be afliated with or controlled by Hezbollah, Iran, but it does export certain pharmaceutical and vaccine products which is designated by the United States as a terrorist organisation.
to Iran, via sales by non-US entities, to two privately held Iranian Again, the Group does not deal directly with such facilities and sells distributors.
The Group also does business, via non-US entities, in through distributors.
The Group is also unable to identify with other jurisdictions targeted by sanctions laws, including Syria, certainty the degree or nature of any afliation of the end customers Crimea, North Korea and Sudan.
with Hezbollah, and the Group is unable to establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to reportable We do not believe that any of the Groups direct dealings with Iran entities.
As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues require specic disclosure under these requirements, and the Group 52 million and net profits 27 million from the Groups sales to limits sales to Iran, North Korea, Syria, Sudan and Cuba to essential Lebanon in 2016. medicines determined in part using criteria set by the World Health Organization.
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach to Notwithstanding our policy, the Companies Act 2006 requires political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval before they policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions.
can make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
Therefore, while we do not make and do not intend to In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2016, the Group make donations to any EU political parties or organisations nor do did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations.
we incur any EU political expenditure, the denitions of political Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with donations, political expenditure and political organisations used in the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue to the legislation are so wide that we annually seek shareholder support an employee-operated Political Action Committee PAC authorisation for any inadvertent expenditure.
In particular, the that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible GSK denition of EU political organisations may extend to bodies such as employees.
those concerned with policy review, law reform, the representation of the business community and special interest groups such as those The PAC is not controlled by GSK.
Decisions on the amounts and concerned with the environment, which the company and its recipients of contributions are made by participating employees subsidiaries might wish to support.
As a result, the denitions may exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political cover legitimate business activities not in the ordinary sense contributions, which are subject to strict limitations.
In 2016, a total considered to be political donations or political expenditure.
of US$ 380,360 2015 US$446,727 was donated to political organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
Such activities are not designed to support any political party or independent election candidate.
The authority which the Board has sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the legislation.
This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to 100,000 each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following the introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The authority has since been renewed annually.
