08 GSK Annual Report 2016 We operate in a growing marketplace and our strategy is designed to respond to the challenges and opportunities we face.
The market in which we operate 1.4bn 60% By 2030, the worlds population of people of the worlds population a aged 60 will be 1.4 billion will live in urban areas f by 2030 75% of the global population has f access to a mobile phone 66% of the global middle class will reside in Asia-Pacic f by 2030 90% of global youth resides in f developing countries Future State 2030: The global megatrends shaping government.
KPMG 09 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our business model A clear strategy for growth How we measure success How we manage risks Global pharmaceutical sales were In developed economies, demand for In 2016, the global 648 billion on a 12 month rolling healthcare provision continues to remain healthcare market basis September 2015-2016, up from high, although the dynamics are becoming 605 billion during the equivalent period more complex.
Trends such as higher life continued to grow September 2014-2015.
North America expectancy are contributing towards the remained the largest pharmaceuticals increasing proportion of elderly people, against a backdrop market with a 50% share of global sales.
and along with improvements in medical of a challenging global Europe represented 21%, Asia Pacic technology, are putting pressure on including Japan was 21% and emerging healthcare budgets.
The changing global political landscape Global vaccine sales totalled 18 billion Shifting attitudes to globalisation and in 2016 and are expected to grow 5% free trade, wage stagnation for many and c annually by 2022. concerns about inequality are causing significant volatility and uncertainty in The consumer healthcare markets in which western markets.
GSK operates account for approximately $70 billion, and are projected to grow 2016 was characterised by political d 3-4% annually over the next five years.
uncertainty and this was exemplied by the vote to leave the EU in the UK and Societal trends supported market growth, the result of the US Presidential Election.
but are also contributing to challenges in Political uncertainty in Europe is expected the healthcare sector, particularly on price to continue in 2017 with national elections and affordability.
Demographic change In the US there is also uncertainty as The world population continues to grow to how the new administration will shape and, according to the United Nations, healthcare, particularly with respect to is predicted to reach 8.5 billion by 2030. repealing and replacing the Affordable The proportion of elderly people is growing Care Act, prescription drug pricing and and the number of people over the age regulation.
This is coupled with questions of 60 is expected to reach 1.4 billion by over the impact of the new administrations e 2030.
At the same time, developing economic, tax and trade policies.
countries are experiencing growth in their middle classes, and by 2030 it is expected In the UK, it remains unclear how Brexit that 60% of the worlds population will be will affect the countrys trading relationships, f middle class.
corporate taxation policy, the movement of people, and regulatory affairs.
In emerging markets, long-term economic growth, increasing expectations of healthcare provision, and changing diets and lifestyles are increasing demand for healthcare products, especially to treat chronic conditions including respiratory and cardiovascular disease.
This demand is expected to grow signicantly faster in these markets over the coming years than in more mature economies.
Footnotes a W orld Population Ageing 2015 Highlights.
b IMS data latest available at time of publishing.
c Internal dat a and EvaluatePharma, World Preview 2016. d Internal forecasts based on Nic holas Hall and Euromonitor.
f Future St ate 2030: The global megatrends shaping government.
10 GSK Annual Report 2016 The market we operate in continued Increasing payer emphasis on cost, Technological and scientific advances Our strategy to create Key advances in the understanding of value and access human biology and genomics are leading a balanced business Demographic changes are contributing to fundamental changes in how we research to increased demand for healthcare and and product portfolio diseases, and the pharmaceutical industrys in turn putting pressure on government ability to develop treatments specically budgets and payers.
This has led to positions us well for to tackle them with innovative treatment continued focus on, and public debate the changes in our approaches has increased substantially about, the industrys approach to drug in recent years.
Alongside these scientific pricing across all key markets.
advances, digital technology and data In the US the ultimately unsuccessful analytics are enabling researchers to explore Proposition 61 vote, which called for and interpret larger volumes of biological medicine price controls in California, data from genomics and disease biology was the first of several drug pricing ballot than ever before.
This is providing initiatives expected in the US.
There has opportunities to increase the speed and also been increasing use of healthcare efficiency of drug discovery and the technology assessments to consider development of novel therapies that could value for money as well as medical efcacy, transform how diseases are managed.
by government-appointed bodies like the UKs National Institute for Health and Care Increasing expectations of companies Excellence and Australias Pharmaceutical Beyond our sector-specic context, where Benets Advisory Committee.
value, cost and affordability are so important, society has increasing and changing As demand for healthcare in emerging expectations of companies, particularly markets rises, governments are continuing of large global companies.
Stakeholders to reform healthcare systems to support from employees to consumers to policy access.
In China, the government continues makers and inuencers expect companies to work to realise the goals set out in the to behave with integrity and fairness: operate Healthy China 2030 plan, with significant transparently: be connected to their local measures taken during the year to reduce communities: and play their part in pharmaceutical prices through the National addressing global challenges from health Price Negotiations.
Responding During the year, the UNs High-Level Panel to this requires strong partnership and on Access to Medicines report, reiterated connectivity between public and private the rights of countries to issue compulsory sector organisations.
licences to access cheaper supplies of generic drugs.
We expect the political and public scrutiny on pricing to continue.
11 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our business model A clear strategy for growth How we measure success How we manage risks Our strategic response GSK is well positioned to take advantage of demographic-led demand for new innovative Three world-leading products with our three world-leading businesses in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and businesses, Consumer Healthcare, and our global presence in more than 150 markets.
For example, in emerging markets, where significant demographic changes and societal trends are underpinned increasing demand for healthcare, our Pharmaceuticals business sells 47% more volume by innovative R&D than our nearest competitor.
In emerging markets, we sell 70% of our vaccines, and the region represents one-third of our Consumer Healthcare business.
Our strategy to create three balanced businesses helps mitigate risk because we can access growth opportunities around the world and navigate changes both in our portfolio and the challenges we face in todays operating environment.
As a global company, we understand the benets of free trade and globalisation but also the A global company importance of companies like ours having a significant local presence in the communities in with a significant which we operate.
We have a large global footprint and can make an important contribution to the markets in which we operate in, for example, through the tax we pay and the jobs we create.
local presence Engaging with government, both directly and through industry trade bodies such as ABPI and BIA, is an important way we can inform policy that will impact our sector.
For example, through the UK EU Life Sciences Steering Group, GSK is working closely with our peers and the UK government to address the needs of our industry during the EU exit negotiations.
Overall, we continue to believe that Brexit will not cause a material impact on our financial position in the long term, but may cause some disruption over the short-term.
Our strategy to focus on pricing our products at a level that provides attractive volume expansion Global and opportunities means we are able to access patients and consumers around the world.
sustainable We understand payer and patient concerns about the affordability of healthcare, and we are pricing leading efforts to develop sustainable solutions.
Our equitable pricing strategy for medicines and vaccines is based on the country, disease area, product type and the patients ability to pay.
In the US, we have launched our six newest products priced similar to or below those of the medicines we aim to replace.
We are also pioneering efforts to show the impact our medicines can have in real-world clinical practice settings.
As a research-based company, we rely on the protection of patents, regulatory data exclusivity, and other rights, to ensure a reasonable return on our investment.
However, we recognise the need for a exible approach to patent protection.
In 2016, we expanded our current approach to ling and enforcing patents by opting not to le for patent protection in least-developed and low-income countries and by granting licences to generic manufacturers to supply versions of our medicines in lower middle income countries other than G20 countries.
Being a responsible business is fundamental to GSK.
We understand that society requires Leading responsible businesses to behave with integrity.
How we operate is as important as the financial results business approach we deliver: we lead industry efforts on access to medicines: clinical trial data transparency: and the ght against anti-microbial resistance.
In evolving our commercial model to ensure patients interests come first, we no longer pay healthcare professionals to speak on our behalf.
