266 GSK Annual Report 2016 Shareholder information continued Annual General Meeting 2017 2.30pm UK time on Thursday 4 May 2017 ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy from The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, BNY Mellon, as Depositary, by notifying them of their request to do London SW1P 3EE.
This will enable them to attend and vote on the business to be transacted.
ADR holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the way in The AGM is the companys principal forum for communication which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted by with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, completing and returning the voting card provided by the Depositary.
there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of the Group and its future development.
There will be an opportunity Documents on display for questions to be asked to the Board.
Chairmen of the Boards The Articles of Association of the company and Directors service Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries and any side Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements are with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of available for inspection at the companys registered ofce and will their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
be made available for inspection at the AGM.
Tax information for shareholders A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax For UK tax years from 2016 17 onwards, dividend tax credits will no consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens of the longer apply and UK resident individuals will be entitled instead to a UK or the US is set out below.
It is not a complete analysis of all the dividend tax allowance of up to 5,000, so that the first 5,000 of possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax proposals were these securities.
It is intended only as a general guide.
Holders are announced on 8 March 2017 to reduce this allowance to 2,000 advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax from the 2018 19 tax year onwards.
Dividends in excess of this consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares or allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for ADR and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
US and the implications of the current UK US tax conventions.
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally entitled to underlying shares for the purposes of the current US UK double exemption from corporation tax.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax Taxation of capital gains Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention, UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended of shares or ADR.
Different rates apply to the taxation of capital gains the Code.
UK shareholders For disposals by individuals during the 2015 16 UK tax year and This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds subject to the availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual shares as capital assets.
exempt amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of Taxation of dividends shares or ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, Different regimes apply to the taxation of dividend income payable such shareholders taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic to UK resident individuals in UK tax years up to 5 April 2016 and to rate income tax limit.
In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing those tax years commencing on or after 6 April 2016. on a disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at a combination of both rates.
From 6 April 2016, these rates reduced For UK tax years up to and including 2015 16, UK resident to 20% and 10% or 20% respectively.
shareholders will generally be subject to UK income tax on the full Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation allowance amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the amount of a tax credit.
which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent that such gains The tax credit may be set against the individuals income tax liability arise due to ination.
Indexation allowance may reduce a chargeable in respect of the gross dividend, but is not repayable to shareholders gain but will not create an allowable loss.
with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
To the extent that individuals income exceeds the basic rate limit, but not the Inheritance tax higher rate limit, an upper dividend rate applies, which is set at Individual UK-domiciled or otherwise shareholders may be liable 32.5% of the grossed up dividend gure and for those whose to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADR.
Tax may be income exceeds the higher rate limit of 150,000, an additional charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholders dividend rate of 37.5% will normally apply.
estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of lifetime gift or other disposal at less than full market value.
In the case of a bequest on death, tax may be charged on the value of the shares at the date of the shareholders death.
If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
267 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Tax information for shareholders continued Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Dividends that are not qualied are subject to taxation at the US UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 43.4%.
Some certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate of types of dividends are automatically excluded from being qualied 0.5% rounded up to the nearest 5 in the case of stamp duty of the dividends, even if they meet the other requirements.
These include consideration for the transfer.
Notwithstanding this, provided that an but are not limited to : instrument is executed in pursuance of the agreement that gave rise 1.
Capital gains distributions to the charge to SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six 2.
Dividends on bank deposits years of the agreement including being stamped as exempt any SDRT charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already 3.
Dividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock Ownership been paid will be repaid.
Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations This summary only applies to a shareholder who is a citizen or resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that is US state and local tax rates on qualied and non-qualied dividends otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in may vary and would be assessed in addition to the federal tax rates respect of the shares or ADR that holds shares or ADR as capital communicated above.
assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not Taxation of capital gains hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that is Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders that disposal of shares or ADR.
Such gains will be long-term capital gains are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders if the insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons shares or ADR were held for more than one year, from the date the that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated investment shares were vested released.
Short-term capital gains can be including a straddle comprised of a share or ADR and one or more subject to taxation of rates of up to 43.4%, whereas long-term capital other positions, and persons that own directly or indirectly 10% or gains may be subject to rates of up to 23.8%.
State and local tax more of the voting stock of the company, nor does it address tax rates on capital gains may also apply.
treatment that may be applicable as a result of international income Information reporting and backup withholding tax treaties.
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or Taxation of dividends ADR, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADR or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identication number are payable in US dollars: dividends on shares are payable in pounds and certies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income generally are not subject to information reporting or backup in the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate withholding, but may be required to provide a certication of their on the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to non-US status in connection with payments received.
Any amounts certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of federal income tax liability provided the required information is 23.8% in respect of qualied dividends.
A qualied dividend as furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
dened by the US Internal Revenue Service is a dividend that meets Estate and gift taxes the following criteria: Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
Must be issued by a US corporation, a corporation incorporated in a US possession, or a corporation that is eligible for the Stamp duty benets of a comprehensive income tax treaty deemed UK stamp duty and or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, satisfactory, as published by the IRS.
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration 2.
The dividends are not listed with the IRS as dividends that do provided if transferred on sale, or their value if transferred for not qualify.
The required dividend holding period has been met.
The shares must have been owned by you for more than 60 days of the However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the transfer holding period which is dened as the 121-day period that of, or agreement to transfer, an ADR.
begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or the day in which the stock trades without the dividend priced in.
For example, if a stocks ex-dividend date is October 1, the shares must be held for more than 60 days in the period between August 2 and November 30 of that year in order to count as a qualied dividend.
