Additional information Shareholder information Glencore plc is registered in Jersey, with headquarters in Switzerland and operations around the world.
Box 777 CH-6341 Baar Switzerland Registered Office Queensway House Hilgrove Street St Helier Jersey JE1 1ES The Company has a primary quote on the London Stock Exchange LSE and a secondary quote on both the JohannesburgStock Exchange JSE and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange HKEx.
Share registrars Jersey: Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited Queensway House Hilgrove Street St Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES Channel Islands Tel.
: 44 0 870 707 4040 Johannesburg: Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001 South Africa Tel.
: 27 0 11 370 5000 Hong Kong: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Hopewell Centre 46th Floor 183 Queens Road East Wan Chai Hong Kong Tel.
: 852 2862 8628 Enquiries Company Secretary John Burton john.
com Glencore plc Baarermattstrasse 3 CH-6340 Baar Switzerland Tel.
com 222 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Forward looking statements This document contains statements that are, or may be Neither Glencore nor any of its associates or directors, deemed to be, forward looking statements which are officers or advisers, provides any representation, assurance prospective in nature.
These forward looking statements or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed or may be identified by the use of forward looking implied in any forward-looking statements in this document terminology, or the negative thereof such as plans, will actually occur.
You are cautioned not to place undue expects or does not expect, is expected, continues, reliance on these forward-looking statements which only assumes, is subject to, budget, scheduled, estimates, speak as of the date of this document.
Other than in aims, forecasts, risks, intends, positioned, accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations predicts, anticipates or does not anticipate, or including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure believes, or variations of such words or comparable and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority terminology and phrases or statements that certain actions, and the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the events or results may, could, should, shall, would, Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and the Listing might or will be taken, occur or be achieved.
Requirements of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited, Such statements are qualified in their entirety by the Glencore is not under any obligation and Glencore and its inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future affiliates expressly disclaim any intention, obligation or expectations.
Forward-looking statements are not based on undertaking to update or revise any forward looking historical facts, but rather on current predictions, statements, whether as a result of new information, future expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, goals, events or otherwise.
This document shall not, under any intentions and projections about future events, results of circumstances, create any implication that there has been no operations, prospects, financial condition and discussions change in the business or affairs of Glencore since the date of strategy.
of this document or that the information contained herein is correct as at any time subsequent to its date.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are No statement in this document is intended as a profit beyond Glencores control.
Forward looking statements are forecast or a profit estimate and no statement in this not guarantees of future performance and may and often do document should be interpreted to mean that earnings per differ materially from actual results.
Important factors that Glencore share for the current or future financial years could cause these uncertainties include, but are not limited would necessarily match or exceed the historical published to, those discussed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties earnings per Glencore share.
This document does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase or subscribe for any securities.
The making of this document does not constitute a recommendation regarding any securities.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com This report is printed on Cocoon Offset paper, made from 100% genuine fide-inked post-consumer waste which is FSC Certified and manufactured ata mill that is certified to the ISO 14001 environmental standard.
Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSC Chain ofCustody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Glencore plc Baarermattstrasse 3 CH-6340 Baar Switzerland Tel: 41 41 709 2000 Fax: 41 41 709 3000 E-mail: info@glencore.
