Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Key judgements Corporate information In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, management has made the following judgements based on the Glencore plc the Company, Parent, the Group or relevant facts and circumstances including macro-economic Glencore, is a leading integrated producer and marketer of circumstances and, where applicable, interpretation of underlying natural resources, with worldwide activities in the production, agreements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts refinement, processing, storage, transport and marketing of recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
metals and minerals, energy products and agricultural products.
Glencore operates on a global scale, marketing and distributing Determination of control of subsidiaries and joint arrangements note 33 physical commodities sourced from third party producers and own production to industrial consumers, such as those in the Judgement is required to determine when Glencore has control of automotive, steel, power generation, oil and food processing subsidiaries or joint control of joint arrangements.
Glencore also provides financing, logistics and other assessment of the relevant activities those relating to the operating services to producers and consumers of commodities.
In this and capital decisions of the arrangement, such as: the approval of regard, Glencore seeks to capture value throughout the commodity the capital expenditure programme for each year, and appointing, supply chain.
Glencores long experience as a commodity producer remunerating and terminating the key management personnel and merchant has allowed it to develop and build upon its or service providers of the operations and when the decisions expertise in the commodities which it markets and cultivate longin relation to those activities are under the control of Glencore or term relationships with a broad supplier and customer base across require unanimous consent.
diverse industries and in multiple geographic regions.
Judgement is also required in determining the classification of Glencore plc is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in a joint arrangement between a joint venture or a joint operation Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded through an evaluation of the rights and obligations arising from on the London, Hong Kong and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
the arrangement and in particular, if the joint arrangement has been structured through a separate vehicle, further consideration is These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue required of whether: in accordance with a Directors resolution on 1 March 2017.
1 the legal form of the separate vehicle gives the parties rights to Statement of compliance the assets and obligations for the liabilities: The accounting policies adopted in this preliminary announcement 2 the contractual terms and conditions give the parties rights to are based on the Companys financial statements which are the assets and obligations for the liabilities: and prepared in accordance with: 3 other facts and circumstances give the parties rights to the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and assets and obligations for the liabilities.
interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU effective as of 31 December 2016: and Joint arrangements in which the primary activity is the provision IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International of output to the shareholders, typically convey substantially all Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as of the economic benefits of the assets to the parties and judgement is 31 December 2016. required in assessing whether the terms of the offtake agreements and any other obligations for liabilities of the arrangement result Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation in the parties being substantially the only source of cash flows contributing to the continuity of the operations of the arrangement.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions Certain joint arrangements that are structured through separate that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as vehicles including Collahuasi and Glencore Agri are accounted the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the for as joint ventures.
The Collahuasi arrangement is primarily financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and designed for the provision of output to the shareholders sharing expenses during the reporting period.
Estimates and assumptions joint control, the offtake terms of which are at prevailing market are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience prices and the parties are not obligated to cover any potential and other factors, including expectations of future events that are funding shortfalls.
In managements judgement, Glencore is not believed to be reasonable and relevant under the circumstances, the only possible source of funding and does not have a direct or independent estimates, quoted market prices and common, indirect obligation to the liabilities of the arrangement, but rather industry standard modelling techniques.
Actual outcomes could shares in its net assets and, therefore, such arrangements have been result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or accounted for as joint ventures.
liabilities affected in future periods.
Differing conclusions around these judgements, may materially Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical impact how these businesses are presented in the consolidated to understanding Glencores financial position as they financial statements under the full consolidation method, require management to make complex and or subjective equity method or recognition of Glencores share of assets, judgements, estimates and assumptions about matters that are liabilities, revenue and expenses, including any assets or liabilities inherently uncertain: held jointly.
132 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Credit and performance risk note 24 Valuation of derivative instruments note 26 The Groups global marketing operations expose it to credit Derivative instruments are carried at fair value and Glencore and performance the risk that counterparties fail to sell or evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data purchase physical commodities on agreed terms risks: these arise used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level particularly in markets demonstrating significant price volatility 1, 2 and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
with limited liquidity and terminal markets and when global and Fair values are determined in the following ways: externally or regional macro-economic conditions are weak.
verified via comparison to quoted market prices in active markets Level 1 : by using models with externally verifiable inputs Level Continuously, but particularly during such times, judgement is 2 : or by using alternative procedures such as comparison to required to determine whether receivables, loans and advances are comparable instruments and or using models with unobservable recoverable and if contracted product deliveries will be received.
market inputs requiring Glencore to make market-based Judgements about recoverability and contractual performance assumptions Level 3.
Level 3 inputs therefore include the highest may materially impact both non-current and current assets as level of estimation uncertainty.
recognised in the statement of financial position.
Depreciation and amortisation of mineral and petroleum rights, deferred Recognition of deferred tax assets note 6 mining costs and plant and equipment note 7 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is Mineral and petroleum rights, deferred mining costs and certain considered probable that those assets will be recoverable.
plant and equipment are depreciated amortised using the Units This involves an assessment of when those deferred tax assets of Production basis UOP.
The calculation of the UOP rate are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether there will be of depreciation amortisation, and therefore the annual charge sufficient taxable income available to offset the tax assets when they to operations, can fluctuate from initial estimates.
These judgements are subject to risk and uncertainty generally result when there are significant changes in any of the and therefore, to the extent assumptions regarding future factors or assumptions used in estimating mineral or petroleum profitability change, there can be a material increase or decrease in reserves and resources, notably changes in the geology of the the amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of income reserves and resources and assumptions used in determining in the period in which the change occurs.
The recoverability of the economic feasibility of the reserves.
Such changes in reserves deferred tax assets including the estimates and assumptions and resources could similarly impact the useful lives of assets contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
depreciated on a straight-line basis, where those lives are limited to the life of the project, which in turn is limited to the life of Classification of transactions which contain a financing element notes 18, the underlying reserves and resources.
Estimates of proven 19 and 22 and probable reserves and resources are prepared by experts in extraction, geology and reserve determination.
Assessments of Transactions for the sale or purchase of commodities may contain UOP rates against the estimated reserve and resource base and the a financing element such as extended payment term agreements.
operating and development plan are performed regularly.
Judgement is required to determine the most appropriate classification and presentation of these transactions within the Impairments notes 3, 5, 7, 8 and 9 statements of cash flows and financial position.
In determining the appropriate classification, management considers the underlying Investments in associates and joint ventures, other investments, economic substance of the transaction and the significance of advances and loans, property, plant and equipment and intangible the financing element to the transaction.
Typically the economic assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes substance of the transaction is determined to be operating in in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully nature, i. e. predominantly related to the sale or purchase of recoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefinite commodities as the financing element is insignificant and the entire life intangible assets.
If an assets recoverable amount is less than cash flow will therefore be presented as operating in the statement the assets carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in of cash flow with a corresponding trade receivable or payable in the the consolidated statement of income.
Future cash flow estimates statement of financial position.
which are used to calculate the assets fair value are discounted using asset specific discount rates and are based on expectations Key estimates and assumptions about future operations, primarily comprising estimates about production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, management has made key estimates and assumptions concerning reserves and resources, operating, rehabilitation and restoration the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty.
Estimates are reviewed regularly The key assumptions and estimates at the reporting date that have by management.
Changes in such estimates and in particular, a significant impact on the financial position and the results of deterioration in the pricing outlook, could impact the recoverable operations, are described below.
Actual results may differ from values of these assets, whereby some or all of the carrying amount these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may be impaired or the impairment charge reduced if pricing may materially affect financial results or the financial position outlook improves significantly with the impact recorded in the reported in future periods.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 133 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued New and revised standards not yet effective Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs note 20 At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the following new and revised IFRS standards, which A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and are applicable to Glencore, were issued but are not yet effective: decommissioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be made around the relevant regulatory framework, the Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised magnitude of the possible disturbance, the timing, extent losses effective for year ends beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and costs of the required closure and rehabilitation activities.
Most of these rehabilitation and decommissioning events are The amendments to IAS 12 clarify the requirement on recognition expected to take place many years in the future and the currently of deferred tax assets related to debt instruments measured at fair estimated requirements and costs that will have to be met when value.
The Group is assessing the potential impact of the change on the restoration event occurs are inherently uncertain and could its consolidated financial statements and so far, it does not expect materially change over time.
In calculating the appropriate provision for the expected Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and measurement of share-based restoration, rehabilitation or decommissioning obligations, payment transactions effective for year ends beginning on or after static cost estimates of the future potential cash outflows based 1January 2018 on, current studies of the expected rehabilitation activities and The amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payments clarify timing, assuming third party contractor rates and existing lives of the classification and measurement of share-based payments operations are prepared.
These static deterministic forecasts are transactions with respect to accounting for cash-settled sharethen discounted to their present value using a rate specific to the based payment transactions that include a performance obligation, liability which is comprised of an estimate of the country specific the classification of share-based payment transactions with net risk free rate and adjustments based on managements judgements settlement features and the accounting for modifications of shareand experience for potential prolongation of the underlying timing based payment transactions from cash-settled to equity-settled.
assumptions and an anticipated benefit of eventually realising The Group is assessing the potential impact of the change on its costslower than those estimated.
consolidated financial statements and so far, it does not expect any significant impact.
Any changes in the expected future costs are initially reflected in both the provision and the asset and subsequently in the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for year ends beginning on or consolidated statement of income over the remaining economic life after 1 January 2018 of the asset.
As the actual future costs can differ from the estimates IFRS 9 modifies the classification and measurement of certain due to changes in laws, regulations, technology, costs and timing, classes of financial assets and liabilities.
The most significant the provisions including the estimates and assumptions contained change is to rationalise from four to two primary categories of therein are reviewed regularly by management.
financial assets, reflecting the business model in which assets are managed and their cash flow characteristics.
The Groups Fair value measurements notes 9, 11, 24, 25 and 26 implementation activities to date have principally focussed on In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, gaining an understanding of the likely effects of IFRS 9 given as discussed above, an assessment of the fair value of assets and the nature of financial instruments currently held by the Group.
liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most The Group is assessing the potential impact of the change on its notably, business combinations and marketing inventories and consolidated financial statements and so far, it does not expect any disclosures related to fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for year at the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are ends beginning on or after 1 January 2018 therefore not necessarily reflective of the likely cash flow upon IFRS 15 applies to revenue from contracts with customers and actual settlements.
Where fair value measurements cannot be replaces all of the revenue standards and interpretations in derived from publicly available information, they are estimated IFRS.
The standard outlines the principles an entity must apply using models and other valuation methods.
To the extent possible, to measure and recognise revenue and the related cash flows.
the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally The Group is currently in the process of completing its review verifiable inputs.
However, such information is by nature subject of the potential impact of adopting IFRS 15 with the primary to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market-based focus being to understand whether the timing and amount of transactions often do not exist.
revenue recognised could differ under IFRS 15.
As the majority of the Groups revenue is derived from arrangements in which the transfer of risks and rewards coincides with the fulfilment of performance obligations, no material changes in respect of timing and amount of revenue currently recognised by the Group are expected.
134 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information IFRS 16 Leases effective for year ends beginning on or after Comparative information 1January2019 Certain comparative information for the year ended 31 December IFRS 16 provides a comprehensive model for identification of 2015 has been restated for the effects of the application of IFRS lease arrangements and their treatment on-balance sheet in the 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, financial statements of both lessees and lessors.
It supersedes IAS see note 23.
The nature of each change reflected in the restated 17 Leases and its associated interpretative guidance.
Under the financial statements is as follows: new standard, a lessee is required to recognise all lease assets and liabilities including those currently classified as operating All income and expense items relating to the Agricultural leases on the statement of financial position at the present value products business segment Glencore Agri have been removed of the unavoidable lease payments and an amortisation charge on from the individual line items in the statement of income and the leased assets and an interest charge on the leased liabilities.
the statement of other comprehensive income.
The net income Although the Group is still evaluating the potential impact of of Glencore Agri, until close of transaction on 1 December 2016, IFRS 16 on the financial statements and performance measures, is presented as a single amount in the line item Income from including an assessment of whether any arrangements the Group discontinued operations net of tax.
enters into will be considered a lease under IFRS 16, it is expected The statement of financial position, statement of changes in equity IFRS 16 will increase the Groups recognised assets and liabilities and cash flow have not been restated as there is no requirement to and affect the presentation and timing of related depreciation do so.
and interest charges in the consolidated statement of income loss.
Upon adoption of IFRS 16, the most significant impact is likely to Inventory with a net carrying value of $504 million disclosed under be the present value of the operating lease commitments currently deferred mining cost within property, plant and equipment in 2015 disclosed in note 28 being shown as a liability on the statement were reclassified to non-current inventories to better reflect the of financial position together with an asset representing the right nature of these items.
Principles of consolidation Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets, and its subsidiaries.
liabilities and marketing inventories that are measured at revalued amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period as Control is achieved when Glencore is exposed, or has rights, to explained in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
exchange for goods and services.
The principal accounting policies Specifically, Glencore controls an investee if, and only if, Glencore adopted are set out below.
has all of the following: The Directors have assessed that they have, at the time of power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2016 exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with Annual Report and Accounts.
Therefore they continue to adopt the investee: and the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Further information on Glencores objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and When Glencore has less than a majority of the voting rights of an financial risks are detailed in note 24. investee or similar rights of an investee, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over the All amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, investee including: unless otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant functional currency of Glencores operations.
the size of Glencores holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders: potential voting rights held by Glencore, other vote holders or other parties: rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that Glencore has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders meetings.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 135 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the Associates net income and equity.
Glencores interest in an The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee Associate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently adjusted if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes for Glencores share of changes in net assets of the Associate, to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when Glencore obtains Where Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits control over the subsidiary and ceases when Glencore loses control and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in of the subsidiary.
Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary that Associate.
acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income Changes in Glencores interests in Associates are accounted for as from the date Glencore gains control until the date when Glencore a gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the amount ceases to control the subsidiary.
by which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration received being recognised directly in Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income the consolidated statement of income.
are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the noncontrolling interests.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is Joint operations attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that a deficit balance.
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with When Glencore undertakes its activities under joint operations, the Groups accounting policies.
All intragroup assets and Glencore recognises in relation to its interest in a joint operation: liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly: on consolidation.
its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly: Changes in Glencores interests in subsidiaries that do not result its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with the joint operation: any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid operation: and or received being recognised directly in equity and attributed to equity holders of Glencore.
its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
When Glencore loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, value of the consideration received and the fair value of any revenues and expenses.
retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any nonWhere Glencore transacts with a joint operation, unrealised profits controlling interests.
All amounts previously recognised in other and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in that comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted joint operation.
for as if Glencore had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities of the subsidiary i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or Business combinations and goodwill transferred to another category of equity as specified permitted by Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any investment retained in the using the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the acquisition is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under sum of the acquisition date fair values of the assets transferred, IAS 39, when applicable, or the cost on the initial recognition of an liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the investment in an associate or a joint venture.
equity interests issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Investments in associates and joint ventures identifiable net assets are recognised at their fair value at the Associates and joint ventures together Associates in which date of acquisition.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control are consolidated statement of income as incurred.
accounted for using the equity method.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencores of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds between 20% to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date Glencore attains and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to the contrary.
control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have consolidated statement of income.
joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about relevant strategic and or key operating decisions require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
136 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration Revenue recognition transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in Revenue is recognised when Glencore has transferred to the buyer the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets sold.
held equity interest in the acquire if any over the net of the Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and is recognised acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable to liabilities assumed.
the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the revenues and costs can be reliably measured.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the destination port or the acquisition date, allocated to the cash-generating units the customers premises.
CGU that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable is subject to movements in market prices up to the date of amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the final pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount booking.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration of the unit pro-rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in receivable.
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised directly in profit or provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a loss.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not able to be commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales reversed in subsequent periods.
price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair On disposal of the relevant CGU, the attributable amount of value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Royalty, interest and dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment has been established, it is probable that If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, income can be measured reliably.
Royalty revenue is recognised Glencore reports provisional amounts for the items for which the on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted relevant agreement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by for additional information obtained during the measurement reference to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date interest rate.
about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at Foreign currency translation that date.
Glencores reporting currency and the functional currency of the majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed to Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests be the principal currency of the economic environment in which and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys it operates.
net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate Foreign currency transactions share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on a transactioncurrency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at the by-transaction basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests are transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities outstanding at measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in year end are converted at year-end rates.
The resulting exchange another IFRS.
differences are recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of Translation of financial statements interests in Associates and joint operations.
Any goodwill arising from such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group investment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter.
Any excess companies whose functional currency is in a currency other of Glencores share of the net fair value of the Associates than the US dollar are translated into US dollars using year-end identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment is included in exchange rates, while their statements of income are translated the consolidated statement of income in the period of the purchase.
using average rates of exchange for the year.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and are translated at the closing rate.
Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of shareholders equity and have no consolidated statement of income impact to the extent that no disposal of the foreign operation has occurred.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 137 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Cash-settled share-based payments Borrowing costs For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially recognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non-marketto the financing of construction or development of qualifying based performance conditions.
Subsequently, at each reporting assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date when the period until the liability is settled, it is remeasured to fair value qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
with any changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Retirement benefits Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance with Income taxes local requirements and practices of the respective countries.
Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes.
The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are funded Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable based by payments to separate trustee administered funds or insurance on enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the period end companies equal the contributions that are required under the on expected current taxable income, and any adjustment to tax plans and accounted for as an expense.
payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxes are recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets Glencore uses the Projected Unit Credit Actuarial method to and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and tax bases used in the computation of taxable income, using enacted the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service or substantively enacted income tax rates which are expected to cost.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the be effective at the time of reversal of the underlying temporary beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Deferred tax assets and unused tax losses are only recognised to the extent that their recoverability is probable.
The cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated Deferred tax assets are reviewed at reporting period end and statement of income so as to recognise current and past service amended to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect benefit will be realised.
To the extent that a deferred tax asset not of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on previously recognised but which subsequently fulfils the criteria plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly for recognition, an asset is then recognised.
in other comprehensive income and will not be reclassified to the consolidated statement of income.
The retirement benefit Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate obligation asset recognised in the consolidated statement of to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets Glencores defined benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis.
The tax effect of calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability other future contributions to the plans.
than those arising in a business combination or in a manner that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit and temporary Glencore also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and Associates certain employees in Canada, South Africa and the United States.
to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of the reversal These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary pension plans, however are unfunded.
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
Share-based payments These adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights Equity-settled share-based payments that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the awards based on the market value of the shares at the grant Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income date.
Fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting in the consolidated statement of income, except when they relate conditions.
The fair value is charged to the consolidated statement to items that are recognised outside the consolidated statement of income and credited to retained earnings on a straight-line basis of income whether in other comprehensive income or directly over the period the estimated awards are expected to vest.
in equity or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business combination.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to retained earnings.
138 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies taxes are treated Exploration and evaluation expenditure as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred in of an income tax including being imposed and determined the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral and petroleum in accordance with regulations established by the respective resources and includes costs such as exploration and production governments taxation authority and the amount payable is based licences, researching and analysing historical exploration data, on taxable income rather than physical quantities produced exploratory drilling, trenching, sampling and the costs of preor as a percentage of revenues after adjustment for temporary feasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for differences.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is each area of interest, other than that acquired from another entity, provided on the same basis as described above for other forms of is charged to the consolidated statement of income as incurred taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do except when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from not satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions and future exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned included in cost of goods sold.
to continue with active and significant operations in relation to the area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not reached Property, plant and equipment a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being the fair commercially recoverable reserves, in which case the expenditure value of the consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, is capitalised.
As the intangible component i. e. licences represents including directly attributable costs required to bring the asset to an insignificant and indistinguishable portion of the overall the location or to a condition necessary for operation and the direct expected tangible amount to be incurred and recouped from future cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated exploitation, these costs along with other capitalised exploration depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
and evaluation expenditure are recorded as a component of property, plant and equipment.
Purchased exploration and Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimated evaluation assets are recognised at their fair value at acquisition.
residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific asset concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associated mine As the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure asset LOM, field or lease.
is not available for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for Depreciation commences when the asset is available for use.
Where a potential impairment is The major categories of property, plant and equipment are indicated, an assessment is performed for each area of interest or depreciated amortised on a UOP and or straight-line basis at the CGU level.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not as follows: expected to be recovered it is charged to the consolidated statement of income.
Buildings 10 45 years Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific Freehold land not depreciated exploration area are charged to the consolidated statement of Plant and equipment 3 30 years UOP income.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in Mineral and petroleum rights UOP an existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the Deferred mining costs UOP term of the permit.
Development expenditure Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are such proposed development receives the appropriate approvals, capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the to construction in progress, a component within the plant and relevant lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases, equipment asset sub-category.
All subsequent development the expenditures for which are charged against income over the expenditure is similarly capitalised, provided commercial viability accounting periods covered by the lease term.
conditions continue to be satisfied.
Proceeds from the sale of product extracted during the development phase are netted against Mineral and petroleum rights development expenditure.
Upon completion of development and Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights together commencement of production, capitalised development costs Mineral and petroleum rights which can be reasonably valued, are further transferred, as required, to the appropriate plant are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
and equipment asset category and depreciated using the unit of Mineral and petroleum rights for which values cannot be production method UOP or straight-line basis.
reasonably determined are not recognised.
Exploitable Mineral and petroleum rights are amortised using the UOP basis over the Deferred mining costs commercially recoverable reserves and, in certain circumstances, Mainly comprises certain capitalised costs related to underground other mineral resources.
Mineral resources are included in mining as well as pre-production and in-production stripping amortisation calculations where there is a high degree of activities as outlined below.
Deferred mining costs are amortised confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
using the UOP basis over the life of the ore body to which those costs relate.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 139 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Intangible assets Deferred stripping costs Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost constructing the mine or pit and subsequently amortised over the less any accumulated amortisation calculated on a straight-line life of the mine or pit on a UOP basis.
basis over their useful lives and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
In-production stripping costs related to accessing an identifiable component of the ore body to realise benefits in the form of Internally generated intangibles are not capitalised.
Instead, the improved access to ore to be mined in the future stripping activity related expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of asset, are capitalised within deferred mining costs provided all the income and other comprehensive income in the period in which the following conditions are met: expenditure is incurred.
a it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with Identifiable intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a the stripping activity will be realised: straight-line basis over their expected useful life.
The amortisation method and period are reviewed annually and impairment b the component of the ore body for which access has been testing is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying improved can be identified: and amount may not be recoverable.
Other than goodwill which is not depreciated, Glencore has no identifiable intangible assets with an c the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with the indefinite life.
improved access can be reliably measured.
The major categories of intangibles are amortised on a straight-line If all of the criteria are not met, the production stripping costs basis as follows: are charged to the consolidated statement of income as they are incurred.
Port allocation rights 30 40 years The stripping activity asset is subsequently depreciated on a UOP Licences, trademarks and software 3 20 years basis over the life of the identified component of the ore body Royalty arrangements 30 40 years that became more accessible as a result of the stripping activity Acquired offtake arrangements 5 10 years and is then stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Other investments Biological assets Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, are recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated selling determinable in which case they are carried at cost.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are value are recorded in the consolidated statement of income unless included in the consolidated statement of income in the period in they are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value which they arise.
movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and are subsequently recognised in the consolidated statement of income Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising from value is judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted using a risk adjusted discount rate to their net present value, are Impairment provided for and capitalised at the time such an obligation arises.
Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asset The costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income over values which is used as a source of information to assess for any the life of the operation through depreciation of the asset and the indications of impairment.
Formal impairment tests are carried out, unwinding of the discount on the provision.
at least annually, for cash-generating units containing goodwill and for all other non-current assets when events or changes in Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at their net present values and charged to the consolidated statement A formal impairment test involves determining whether the of income as extraction progresses.
carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
An assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its Changes in the estimated timing of the rehabilitation or changes fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Such reviews to the estimated future costs are accounted for prospectively by are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do recognising an adjustment to the rehabilitation liability and a not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case corresponding adjustment to the asset to which it relates, provided the review is undertaken at the CGU level.
the reduction in the provision is not greater than the depreciated capitalised cost of the related asset, in which case the capitalised If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, cost is reduced to Nil and the remaining adjustment recognised in an impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of the consolidated statement of income.
In the case of closed sites, income to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of income.
140 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information An impairment loss is reversed in the consolidated statement of Cash and cash equivalents income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in the recoverable amount since the prior impairment loss was hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity recognised.
The carrying amount is increased to the recoverable of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets amount but not beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation approximates their fair value.
or amortisation which would have arisen if the prior impairment loss had not been recognised.
Goodwill impairments and Financial instruments impairments of available for sale equity investments cannot be Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value subsequently reversed.
through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or available for sale financial assets depending Provisions upon the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligation Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on the trade legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable date, including, in the case of instruments not recorded at fair that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that can value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction be reliably estimated will be required to settle the liability.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair value other investments, derivatives and marketable securities or amortised The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of cost less impairment accounts receivable and advances and loans.
the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the Financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially recognised balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as surrounding the obligation, including interpretation of specific appropriate and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
laws and likelihood of settlement.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its Impairment of financial assets carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows when the Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for effect of the time value of money is material.
indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period.
Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is Onerous contracts objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that An onerous contract is considered to exist where Glencore has occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract.
Present obligations For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured impairment loss recognised is the difference between the assets as provisions.
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the statement Unfavourable contracts of income.
An unfavourable contract is considered to exist when Glencore, in a business combination, acquires a contract under which the For financial assets that are carried at cost, the amount of the terms of the contract require Glencore to sell products or purchase impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets services on terms which are economically unfavourable compared carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future to current market terms at the time of the business combination.
cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a Unfavourable contracts are recognised at the present value of similar financial asset.
Such impairment loss will not be reversed in the economic loss and amortised into income over the term of subsequent periods.
Derecognition of financial assets Inventories The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual The vast majority of inventories held by the marketing activities rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers marketing inventories are valued at fair value less costs of the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards disposal with the remainder valued at the lower of cost or net of ownership of the asset to another party.
If the Group neither realisable value.
Unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards value are reported in cost of goods sold.
of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an Inventories held by the industrial activities production associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out FIFO transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the or the weighted average method and comprises material costs, financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs.
Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed as incurred.
On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the assets carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 141 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
SEGMENT INFORMATION Own shares Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in three core business segments Metals and minerals, Energy products and The cost of purchases of own shares is deducted from equity.
Agricultural products, with each business segment responsible for Where they are purchased, issued to employees or sold, no the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial investment gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of activities of their respective products and reflecting the structure used income.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
by Glencores management to assess the performance of Glencore.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfers to employees are recognised in equity.
The business segments contributions to the Group are primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from physical Derivatives and hedging activities marketing activities net sale and purchase of physical commodities, Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or provision of marketing and related value-add services and the purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemption, are margin earned from industrial asset activities net resulting from the initially recognised at fair value when Glencore becomes a party to sale of physical commodities over the cost of production and or cost the contractual provisions of the instrument and are subsequently of sales and comprise the following underlying key commodities: remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices, dealer price Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key ferroalloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, inputs for which include current market and contractual prices for refining, mining, processing and storage related operations of the underlying instrument, time to expiry, yield curves, volatility of the relevant commodities: the underlying instrument and counterparty risk.
Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge metallurgical coal, including investments in coal mining and oil accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities: and mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil recognised in cost of goods sold.
seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported by investments in farming, storage, handling, processing and Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are either port facilities.
i a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, or ii Corporate and other: consolidated statement of income amount a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cash flows to be received represents unallocated Group related expenses including variable or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability or a highly pool bonus charges.
Statement of financial position amounts probable transaction.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair Value The financial performance of the segments is principally evaluated Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair value of the with reference to Adjusted EBIT EBITDA which is the net result hedged item in the consolidated statement of income.
of revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses, plus share of income from other associates and joint A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash ventures, dividend income and the attributable share of underlying Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge reserve Adjusted EBIT EBITDA of certain associates and joint ventures which in shareholders equity.
The deferred amount is then released to are accounted for internally by means of proportionate consolidation, the consolidated statement of income in the same periods during excluding significant items.
In addition, the segment information which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated statement includes Glencore Agri, which has been disclosed as a discontinued of income.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the consolidated operation until close of transaction on 1 December 2016, see note 23. statement of income when it occurs.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge those described in note 1 with the exception of certain associates and no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative joint ventures.
Under IFRS 11, Glencores investments in the Antamina gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareholders copper zinc mine 34% owned and the Cerrejn coal mine 33% equity and is recognised in the consolidated statement of owned are considered to be associates as they are not subject to joint income when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately control and the Collahuasi copper mine 44% owned and Glencore recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
However, Agri 50% owned are considered to be joint ventures.
Associates and if a forecast or committed transaction is no longer expected to joint ventures are required to be accounted for in Glencores financial occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is statements under the equity method.
For internal reporting and immediately transferred to the consolidated statement of income.
analysis, Glencore evaluates the performance of these investments under the proportionate consolidation method reflecting Glencores A derivative may be embedded in a host contract.
Such combinations proportionate share of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are known as hybrid instruments and at the date of issuance, the of the investments.
Under IFRS 5, the Agricultural business segment embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and is required to be presented as a discontinued operation following accounted for as a standalone derivative if the criteria for separation the agreed sale of a 50% interest in Glencore Agri, which completed are met.
The host contract is accounted for in accordance with its on 1 December 2016 see note 23.
Prior to completion of the sale, relevant accounting policy.
Glencore evaluated the performance of this segment under the full consolidation method, consistent with prior periods.
The balances presented for internal reporting purposes are reconciled to Glencores statutory disclosures as outlined in the following tables.
142 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Glencore accounts for intra-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i. e. at arms length commercial terms.
2016 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate 1 US$ million minerals products products and other Total 2 Revenue Marketing activities 42,142 81,872 18,678 142,692 Revenue Industrial activities 24,196 7,149 3,292 22 34,659 Revenue 66,338 89,021 21,970 22 177,351 Marketing activities Adjusted EBITDA 1,586 959 454 74 2,925 Depreciation and amortisation 24 50 36 110 Adjusted EBIT 1,562 909 418 74 2,815 Industrial activities Adjusted EBITDA 6,030 1,503 138 328 7,343 3 Depreciation and amortisation 3,848 2,345 34 1 6,228 Adjusted EBIT 2,182 842 104 329 1,115 Total Adjusted EBITDA 7,616 2,462 592 402 10,268 Depreciation and amortisation 3,872 2,395 70 1 6,338 Total Adjusted EBIT 3,744 67 522 403 3,930 4,5 Share of associates significant items 477 4,6 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 374 4,7 Mark-to-market valuation on certain coal hedging contracts 225 8 Gains on disposals and investments 2,333 9 Other expense net 1,615 10 Interest expense net 1,619 11 Income tax expense 1,017 Income for the year from continuing and discontinued operations 936 1 Includes Glencores proportionate share of the Agricultural products business 50% since the disposal of Glencore Agri on 1 December 2016, see note 23.
2 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities.
Metals and minerals segment: $16,602 million, Energy products segment: $2,263 million and Agricultural products: $2,253 million.
3 Includes an adjustment of $705 million to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $517 million, Energy products segment $178 million and Agricultural products $10 million, see reconciliation table below.
4 Refer to Glossary for definition of significant items.
5 Share of associates significant items comprise Glencores share of significant charges booked directly by various associates, primarily impairment charges recognised within coal shipping investments and $345 million of impairment related to Cerrejn, see reconciliation table below.
6 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions.
For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial to Marketing operations.
Management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to third parties.
7 Represents an accounting measurement mismatch between the fair value of coal derivative positions in respect of portfolio risk management hedging activities initiated in Q2 2016 and the anticipated future revenue to be generated from the sale of future unsold coal production.
The derivative positions manage forward sales price exposure relating to some 11 million tonnes of future attributable coal production, which is expected to be settled before 31 December 2017.
The derivative positions include pre-existing trading contracts, for which markto-market movements, up until the time of them being ring-fenced for hedging activities, were included in trading results.
These transactions were not able to be designated as hedging instruments under IFRS, which would have allowed for the deferment of any income statement effect until performance of the underlying future sale transactions.
The fair value movements in the derivative portfolio will be offset against future revenue in the segment information as the related sales of production are realised.
8 Gains on disposals and investments of $452 million as disclosed in note 3, $33 million gains on disposals and investments as reported by discontinued operations and $1,848 million gain on disposal of discontinued operations, see note 23.
9 Other expense net of $1,589 million as disclosed in note 4 and $26 million of other expenses related to discontinued operations, see note 23.
10 Includes an adjustment for net finance costs of $70 million related to discontinued operations, see note 23, and $16 million related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: net finance costs of $12 million, Energy products segment: net finance costs of $5 million and Agricultural products segment: net finance income of $1 million, see reconciliation table below.
11 Includes an adjustment for income tax expenses of $131 million related to discontinued operations, see note 23, and $248 million related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $216 million, Energy products segment: $16 million and Agricultural products segment: $16 million, see reconciliation table below.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 143 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued Agricultural 2015 Metals and Energy products Corporate US$ million minerals products Discontinued and other Total 1 Revenue Marketing activities 41,151 75,206 20,617 136,974 Revenue Industrial activities 24,782 8,406 2,529 4 35,721 Revenue 65,933 83,612 23,146 4 172,695 Marketing activities Adjusted EBITDA 1,280 826 584 30 2,660 Depreciation and amortisation 25 48 123 196 Adjusted EBIT 1,255 778 461 30 2,464 Industrial activities Adjusted EBITDA 4,030 2,269 150 415 6,034 2 Depreciation and amortisation 3,882 2,357 87 6,326 Adjusted EBIT 148 88 63 415 292 Total Adjusted EBITDA 5,310 3,095 734 445 8,694 Depreciation and amortisation 3,907 2,405 210 6,522 Total Adjusted EBIT 1,403 690 524 445 2,172 3,4 Share of associates significant items 88 3,5 Unrealised intergroup loss elimination adjustments 445 6 Losses on disposals and investments 994 7 Other expense net 7,998 8 Interest expense net 1,391 9 Income tax expense 260 Loss for the year from continuing and discontinued operations 8,114 1 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities.
Metals and minerals segment: $17,843 million, Energy products segment: $2,318 million and Agricultural products segment: $1,847 million.
2 Includes an adjustment of $687 million to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $501 million and Energy products segment: $186 million, see reconciliation table below.
3 Refer to Glossary for definition of significant items.
4 Share of associates significant items comprise Glencores share of significant charges booked directly by various associates, predominantly Century.
5 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions.
7 Other expense net items of $7,928 million as disclosed in note 4 and $70 million of other expenses related to discontinued operations, see note 23.
8 Includes an adjustment for net finance costs of $91 million related to discontinued operations, see note 23, and net finance income of $3 million related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: net finance income of $9 million and Energy products segment: net finance costs of $6 million, see reconciliation table below.
9 Includes an adjustment for income tax expenses of $107 million related to discontinued operations, see note 23, and $162 million to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $103 million and Energy products segment: $59 million, see reconciliation table below.
144 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2016 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 23,904 17,456 466 40,894 Current liabilities 13,853 18,902 582 33,337 Allocatable current capital employed 10,051 1,446 1,048 7,557 Property, plant and equipment 32,635 20,795 396 53,826 Intangible assets 3,671 3,028 17 6,716 Investments in associates and other investments 7,963 3,721 3,155 14,839 Non-current advances and loans 1,737 1,737 9 3,483 Inventory 564 564 Allocatable non-current capital employed 46,570 29,281 3,155 422 79,428 1 Other assets 4,278 4,278 2 Other liabilities 47,482 47,482 Total net assets 56,621 27,835 3,155 43,830 43,781 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 14 27 96 1 138 3 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 2,695 571 44 49 3,359 Capital expenditure 2,709 598 140 50 3,497 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions and non-current financial liabilities.
3 Includes an adjustment to capital expenditure of $407 million related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $359 million Energy products segment: $33 million and Agricultural products segment: $15 million, see reconciliation table below.
2015 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 21,707 12,131 5,720 106 39,452 Current liabilities 10,848 15,913 2,685 309 29,755 Allocatable current capital employed 10,859 3,782 3,035 415 9,697 Property, plant and equipment 34,161 23,443 2,836 334 60,774 Intangible assets 3,695 2,915 889 17 7,516 Investments in associates and other investments 8,088 3,926 628 12,642 Non-current advances and loans 1,414 1,369 114 108 3,005 Inventory 504 504 Allocatable non-current capital employed 47,862 31,653 4,467 459 84,441 1 Other assets 4,592 4,592 2 Other liabilities 57,387 57,387 Total net assets 58,721 27,871 7,502 52,751 41,343 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 81 17 146 244 3 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 4,149 1,303 98 163 5,713 Capital expenditure 4,230 1,320 244 163 5,957 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
3 Includes an adjustment to capital expenditure of $244 million related to discontinued operations and $328 million related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $292 million, Energy products segment: $36 million and Agricultural products segment: $244 million, see reconciliation tablebelow.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 145 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued The reconciliation of revenue, certain associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT to Share of net income from associates and joint ventures and capital expenditure for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 is as follows: 2016 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue Revenue 66,338 89,021 21,970 22 177,351 Impact of: Presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 1,826 607 1,085 3,518 Discontinued operations 20,885 20,885 Revenue reported measure 64,512 88,414 22 152,948 Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBITDA 1,144 240 63 1,447 Depreciation and amortisation 517 178 10 705 Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT 627 62 53 742 1 Impairment, net of tax 345 345 Net finance costs 12 5 1 16 Income tax expense 216 16 16 248 228 366 15 609 Share of income loss from certain associates and jointventures 399 304 38 133 Share of loss from other associates 113 9 122 2 Share of income loss from associates and joint ventures 286 313 38 11 Capital expenditure Capital expenditure 2,709 598 140 50 3,497 Impact of: Presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 359 33 15 407 Capital expenditure reported measure 2,350 565 125 50 3,090 1 Energy products segment comprises an impairment of $345 million, net of taxes of $176 million relating to Cerrejn, resulting from reduced near term production estimates due to increased risk related to the possibility of delays in sourcing approvals as a result of the continued social and environmental challenges to current mine plans.
2 Comprises share in earnings of $12 million from marketing activities and losses of $1 million from industrial activities.
146 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Agricultural 2015 Metals and Energy products Corporate Total 1 US$ million minerals products Discontinued and other Restated Revenue Revenue 65,933 83,612 23,146 4 172,695 Impact of: Presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 1,578 620 2,198 Discontinued operations 23,146 23,146 Revenue reported measure 64,355 82,992 4 147,351 Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBITDA 806 189 995 Depreciation and amortisation 501 186 687 Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT 305 3 308 Net finance costs 9 6 3 Income tax expense 103 59 162 94 65 159 Share of income loss from certain associates and joint ventures 211 62 149 Share of loss income from other associates 35 15 2 48 Discontinued operations 2 2 2 Share of income loss from associates and joint ventures 176 77 99 Capital expenditure Capital expenditure 4,230 1,320 244 163 5,957 Impact of: Presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 292 36 328 Discontinued operations 244 244 Capital expenditure reported measure 3,938 1,284 163 5,385 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustments made relating to discontinued operations see note 23.
2 Comprises share in earnings of $80 million from industrial activities and $19 million from marketing activities.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 147 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued Adjusted EBIT is revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share of underlying Adjusted EBIT of certain associates and joint ventures and the discontinued Agricultural products segment, excluding significant items.
Adjusted EBITDA consists of Adjusted EBIT plus depreciation and amortisation.
The reconciliation of Adjusted EBIT EBITDA to the reported measures is as follows: 2015 1 US$ million 2016 Restated Reported measures Revenue 152,948 147,351 Cost of goods sold 149,763 144,533 Selling and administrative expenses 1,102 1,096 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 11 99 Dividend income 27 25 2,121 1,846 Adjustments to reported measures Share of associates significant items 477 88 Unrealised intergroup profit loss elimination 374 445 Mark-to-market valuation on certain coal hedging contracts 225 Net finance and income tax expense impact of presenting certain associates  basis 264 159 Adjusted EBIT from discontinued operations 469 524 Adjusted EBIT from continuing and discontinued operations 3,930 2,172 Depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations 5,573 5,625 Depreciation impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures  705 687 Depreciation from discontinued operations 60 210 Adjusted EBITDA from continuing and discontinued operations 10,268 8,694 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustments made relating to discontinued operations see note 23.
Geographical information 2015 1 US$ million 2016 Restated 2 Revenue from third parties The Americas 22,401 29,422 Europe 55,021 46,758 Asia 61,060 55,879 Africa 3,934 4,824 Oceania 10,532 10,468 152,948 147,351 3 Non-current assets The Americas 18,713 22,663 Europe 10,434 8,447 Asia 4,895 5,416 Africa 19,596 19,841 Oceania 20,554 23,764 74,192 80,131 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustments made relating to discontinued operations see note 23.
2 Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty, however this may not necessarily be the country of the counterparts ultimate parent and or final destination of product.
3 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, advances and loans and deferred tax assets.
148 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 3.
GAINS LOSSES ON DISPOSALS AND INVESTMENTS US$ million 2016 2015 Gain on sale of GRail 430 Loss on cessation of control of Optimum 1,034 Loss on distribution of interest in Lonmin 256 Gain on sale of other operations 22 296 Total 452 994 GRail In December 2016, Glencore disposed its New South Wales coal rail haulage business, resulting in a gain of $430 million see note 23.
Optimum In August 2015, the directors of Optimum Coal placed the company under the control and supervision of business rescue practitioners, resulting in the Group ceasing to have control over Optimum.
In December 2015, the business rescue practitioners reached agreement to sell the business, which closed in 2016.
Due to cessation of control of Optimum, the net assets were deconsolidated, with the fair value of such determined to be $Nil, being the amount to be received.
As a result, a loss of $1,034 million was recognised, which includes $311 million of foreign currency translation losses previously recognised in equity and $152 million of related impairments see note 23.
Lonmin On 9 June 2015, following approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, Glencore completed the in specie distribution of its 23.9% stake in Lonmin plc.
Based on the closing Lonmin share price a Level 1 valuation technique at the time of distribution, its fair value was determined to be $298 million and as a result, a $256 million loss on disposal of the investment was recognised see notes 9 and 16.
Other In 2015, the gain on sale of other operations arose primarily from the disposals of the Tampakan and Falcondo operations in August 2015, which resulted in a net gain of $192 million and $87 million respectively see note 23.
OTHER EXPENSE NET 2015 1 US$ million Notes 2016 Restated Impairments 5 1,268 7,104 Net changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading 121 265 Net foreign exchange losses 70 128 Legal settlement 92 89 Loss on metal leak 235 Gain on bond buy-backs 35 2 Other expense net 38 142 Total 1,589 7,928 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustment made relating to discontinued operations see note 23.
2 Other expense net for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprised of $37 million gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment offset by restructuring and closure costs of $47 million and a settlement of a financial guarantee in relation to Optimum of $28 million.
Other expense net for the year ended 31 December 2015 mainly comprises restructuring and closure costs.
Together with foreign exchange movements and mark-to-market movements on investments held for trading, other expense net includes other significant items of income and expense which due to their non-operational nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them are reported separately from operating segment results.
Other expense net includes, but is not limited to, impairment charges and restructuring and closure costs.
Changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading net Primarily relates to movements on interests in investments classified as held for trading see note 9 and the ARM Coal non-discretionary dividend obligation see note 26 carried at fair value.
In 2016, positive fair value movements in Glencores interest in Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. and Century Aluminum cash-settled equity swaps were offset by the movement in the ARM Coal derivative see note 26, accounting for the majority of the net expense.
Legal settlement In September 2016, a subsidiary of the Group reached a settlement with U. S. agencies to pay a penalty of $27 million and retire around $65 million of credits in relation to compliance with a U. S. biofuels programme in the years 2011 12.
In April 2015, OMV Petrom was awarded $89 million related to a dispute over oil deliveries in the early 1990s.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 149 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 4.
OTHER EXPENSE NET continued Loss from metal leak In December 2014, a metal leak in Line 1 of the metallurgical plant at Koniambo was detected and the related production suspended.
Following an extensive investigation during H1 2015, it was determined that the furnace would need to be rebuilt repaired at a cost of approximately $60 million and incremental net operating costs of an additional $175 million were incurred in relation to this incident.
Gain on bond buy-backs In 2015, Glencore acquired $564 million of outstanding bonds, at a discount to their carrying values, realising a gain of $35 million seenote 18.
IMPAIRMENTS 2015 1 US$ million Notes 2016 Restated Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7 8 1,268 6,028 Investments 9 193 Advances and loans non-current 455 Trade advances and deposits 12 359 2 Non-current inventory and other 69 3 Total impairments 1,268 7,104 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustment made relating to discontinued operations see note 23.
2 These items, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
3 Impairments recognised during the year are allocated to Glencores operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $50 million 2015: $5,135 million and Energy products $1,218 million 2015: $1,969 million.
As part of a regular portfolio review, Glencore carries out an assessment of whether there is an indication of asset impairment or whether a previously recorded impairment may no longer be required.
The recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were measured based on fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD, determined by discounted cash flow techniques based on the most recent approved financial budgets and three-year business plans, which are underpinned and supported by life of mine plans of the respective operations.
The valuation models use the most recent reserve and resource estimates, relevant cost assumptions generally based on past experience and where possible, market forecasts of commodity price and foreign exchange rate assumptions discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from 7% 11% 2015: 6% 12%.
The valuations remain sensitive to price and further deterioration improvements in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairments reversals.
The determination of FVLCD uses Level 3 valuation techniques for both years.
As a result of the regular impairment assessment, the following significant impairment charges resulted: 2016 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Due to changes in estimated reserve life and revised mining plans, the estimated mine life of Tahmoor in Australia Energy products segment was reduced from 2020 to 2017.
As a result, the carrying value of this operation was impaired by $168 million, to its estimated recoverable amount of $100 million, which is expected to be depleted over the following year as the mine approaches its completion.
As a result of a write down of appraisal expenditure and certain operational challenges at the Equatorial Guinea oil operations Energy products segment, an impairment charge of $311 million has been recognised resulting in a remaining recoverable value of $194 million.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and further deterioration in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairment.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were between $50 $75 per barrel and should these fall by 10%, a further $46 million of impairment would be recognised.
During 2016, Glencores long-term oil price assumptions were revised downwards, which together with delayed work programmes, resulted in a $622 million impairment of the onshore Chad oil operations Energy products segment, to their estimated recoverable amount of $1,480 million.
The short to long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were between $50 $75 per barrel and should these fall by 10%, a further $695 million of impairment would be recognised.
The balance of property, plant and equipment related impairment charges none of which were individually material arose due to changes in production and development plans and resulted in impairments of $50 million and $117 million being recognised in our Metals and minerals and Energy products segments respectively.
150 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2015 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Following the sharp decline in oil prices in 2015, significant amendments were made to Chads work programme, with the objective of preserving value for the long term, while reducing cash outlays in the near term.
This included changes to the fields capex and production profiles and significantly reducing the number of drilling rigs in operation.
As a result, the carrying value of these fields blocks Energy products segment was impaired by $1,031 million, to their estimated recoverable amount of $2,012 million.
The shortto long-term oil price assumptions used in the valuation were between $40 $80 per barrel.
Upon further review and evaluation of the exploration activities on the Tilapia licence in Cameroon Energy product segment it was determined that the technical risk of continuing to evaluate develop the field was unacceptably high and as a result, the full carrying value of $27 million was impaired.
As a result of the current subdued coking coal market and resulting weak shorter-term price outlook, the Oaky Creek coking coal operations Energy products segment were determined to be impaired by $240 million, to their estimated recoverable amount of $959 million, given the relatively short life of one of the relevant mines.
The valuation remains sensitive to coking coal prices and further deterioration in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairment.
The shortto long-term coking coal price assumptions used in the valuation were between $81 $135 per metric tonne.
In Q4 2015, it was determined, for the foreseeable future, to defer the Blakefield North coal project and place the Ravensworth underground coal operations Energy products segment on care and maintenance.
As a result, the full carrying value of these projects $82 million was impaired.
Due to continued subdued current and long-term nickel prices and the ongoing operational and technical challenges at the Koniambo processing plant, it was determined, post significant line one furnace redesign repair work, to operate only one processing line of two for an extended period of time until it proves itself to be technically robust.
As a result of this updated plan and reflecting the lower nickel price environment, Koniambo Metal and minerals segment was written down to its recoverable value of $917 million, resulting in a $3,989 million impairment.
The shortto long-term nickel prices used in the valuation were between $12,500 $16,000 per metric tonne.
Sherwin Alumina Metal and minerals segment is an alumina production facility located in Corpus Christi, USA.
Adverse market conditions resulted in a decrease in its valuation to an estimated recoverable value of $Nil and, as a result, an impairment of $128 million was recognised.
Since January 2016, Sherwin has been under United States Chapter 11 proceedings.
Kabanga Metal and minerals segment is an undeveloped nickel deposit in Tanzania, in which Glencore has a 50% interest.
During 2015, a sales process was undertaken to find a potential buyer.
No acceptable bids were received and as a result the project was written down to $Nil, reflective of the lower nickel price environment noted above, resulting in an impairment of $115 million.
Following a strategic review of the Komarovskoe within Kazzinc gold mining deposit Metal and minerals segment it was determined to cease further development and, as a result, the full carrying value of $70 million was impaired.
Following the placing of Eland Platinum Metal and minerals segment on care and maintenance in October 2015 and a further deterioration in platinum prices, it was determined that its recoverable value was $Nil and, as a result, an impairment of $77 million was recognised.
The London Metal Exchange LME proposed changes to its warehousing regulations in a further attempt to reduce metal queues via increasing load-out rates and capping longer-term rental income streams.
As a result, the goodwill of $169 million relating to the Pacorini metals warehousing business Metals and minerals segment was impaired by $119 million to a recoverable value of $50 million see notes 8 and 9.
The balance of the property, plant and equipment related impairment charges none of which were individually material arose due to changes in production and development plans and resulted in impairments of $85 million and $65 million being recognised in our Metals and minerals and Energy products segments respectively.
Investments Based on lower midto long-term aluminium price assumptions, it was determined that the recoverable value of our investment in Century Aluminum Company was $592 million with a resulting impairment of $162 million.
The recoverable amount was determined using similar valuation techniques and inputs described above.
The shortto long-term aluminium prices used in the valuation were between $1,550 $1,790 per metric tonne.
Advances and loans non-current In November 2015, Glencore and Russneft effected a debt to equity conversion which resulted in Glencore exchanging its loan balance of $984 million and investments in operating subsidiaries carried at $Nil for a 46% interest in Russneft.
The fair value of the equity received was determined to be $685 million, resulting in a $300 million impairment recognised upon settlement of the loan.
In December 2015, an impairment of $155 million was recognised reflecting non-performance of contractual terms and rescheduling of the timing in product supply and a recoverable value provision in respect of other advances and loans.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 151 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 6.
INCOME TAXES Income taxes consist of the following: 2015 1 US$ million 2016 Restated Current income tax expense 765 365 Adjustments in respect of prior year income tax 3 30 Deferred income tax credit 117 354 Adjustments in respect of prior year deferred income tax 7 10 Total tax expense credit reported in the statement of income loss 638 9 Current income tax expense credit recognised directly in other comprehensive income Deferred income tax credit expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income 24 77 Total tax credit expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income 24 77 The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following reasons: 2015 1 US$ million 2016 Restated Loss before income taxes and attribution from continuing operations 549 8,379 Income before income taxes and attribution from discontinued operations 2,254 363 Income loss before income taxes and attribution from continuing and discontinued operations 1,705 8,016 Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures from continuing operations 11 99 Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures from discontinued operations 15 2 Parent Companys and subsidiaries income loss before income tax and attribution from continuing and discontinued operations 1,679 8,117 Income tax expense credit calculated at the Swiss income tax rate of 15% 2015: 15% 252 1,218 Tax effects of: Different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate 205 154 Tax exempt income $160 million 2015: $326 million from recurring items and $283 million 2015: $15 million from non-recurring items 443 341 Items not tax deductible $365 million 2015: $618 million from recurring items and $269 million 2015:$424million from non-recurring items 634 1,042 Foreign exchange fluctuations 19 307 Changes in tax rates 3 24 Utilisation and changes in recognition of tax losses and temporary differences 41 24 Tax losses not recognised 483 175 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 20 Other 1 1 Income tax expense 769 98 Income tax expense credit reported in the statement of income loss 638 9 Income tax expense attributable to discontinued operations 131 107 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustments made relating to discontinued operations see note 23.
The non-tax deductible items of $634 million 2015: $1,042 million primarily relate to non-deductible exploration charges, financing costs, impairments and various other expenses.
The impact of tax exempt income of $443 million 2015: $341 million primarily relates to nontaxable intra-group dividends, income that is not effectively connected to the taxable jurisdiction, and various other items.
The tax impact of foreign exchange fluctuations relates to the foreign currency movements on deferred tax balances where the underlying tax balances are denominated in a currency different to the functional currency determined for accounting purposes.
In 2016, in relation to our Australian tax group, an election was finalised to change the tax functional currency to align with the accounting functional currency.
152 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are attributable to the items in the table below: US$ million Notes 2016 2015 1 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1,653 1,680 Other 107 166 Total 1,760 1,846 1 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 5,546 5,483 Mark-to-market valuations 76 238 Other 42 56 Total 5,664 5,777 Total Deferred tax net 3,904 3,931 Reconciliation of deferred tax net 1 January 3,931 4,768 Recognised in income for the year from continuing and discontinued operations 52 345 Recognised in other comprehensive income from continuing and discontinued operations 24 77 Business combination 23 17 Disposal of subsidiaries 23 100 205 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 130 349 Other 19 2 31 December 3,904 3,931 1 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
As at 31 December 2016, $2,898 million 2015: $3,736 million of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards have been brought to account, of which $1,653 million 2015: $1,680 million are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same respective entity.
$1,241 million 2015: $1,149 million of net deferred tax assets arise in entities, primarily domiciled in Switzerland and the DRC that have been loss making for tax purposes in either 2016 or 2015.
In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods prior to any tax loss expiry as may be the case, all available evidence was considered, including approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results.
These forecasts are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes.
Following this evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets and that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would result in a material reduction in forecast headroom of tax profits so that the recognised deferred tax asset would not be realised.
The recognised losses carried forward in Switzerland primarily relate to non-recurring events in 2011 and 2012.
Based on the core business activities conducted in Switzerland, sufficient taxable profits are expected to fully utilise the recognised tax losses prior to expiration.
The losses carried forward in the DRC have an unlimited carry forward period, subject to an annual utilisation limitation.
The DRC entity has temporarily ceased operations to complete facility improvements.
Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the consolidated financial statements, are detailed below and will expire as follows: US$ million 2016 2015 1 year 34 153 2 years 320 69 3 years 2,408 534 Thereafter 13,507 16,266 Unlimited 2,149 1,444 Total 18,418 18,466 As at 31 December 2016, unremitted earnings of $40,088 million 2015: $41,285 million have been retained by subsidiaries for reinvestment.
No provision is made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 153 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 7.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold land Plant and Mineral and Exploration and Deferred US$ million Notes and buildings equipment petroleum rights evaluation mining costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1 January 2016 5,326 56,037 20,579 2,337 2,393 86,672 Business combination 23 22 37 59 Disposal of subsidiaries 23 694 4,012 712 95 5,513 Additions 62 2,606 110 296 3,074 Disposals 85 409 14 14 522 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 28 401 303 1 733 Other movements 149 38 66 6 219 36 31 December 2016 4,808 54,622 20,332 2,343 2,362 84,467 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1 January 2016 995 19,067 4,324 784 728 25,898 Disposal of subsidiaries 23 137 1,284 224 80 1,725 Depreciation 263 4,063 978 233 5,537 Disposals 44 404 3 2 453 Impairments 5 807 105 351 1,263 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 38550 138 Other movements 19 58 11 3 48 17 31 December 2016 1,061 22,392 5,219 1,138 831 30,641 Net book value 31December2016 3,747 32,230 15,113 1,205 1,531 53,826 154 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Freehold land Plant and Mineral and Exploration and Deferred US$ million Notes and buildings equipment petroleum rights evaluation mining costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1 January 2015 5,568 52,840 22,505 2,196 2,330 85,439 Business combination 23 85 201 286 Disposal and cessation of control of subsidiaries 23 125 597 541 1,263 Additions 121 4,534 428 147 355 5,585 Disposals 34 476 14 4 528 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 131 1,300 843 2,274 Reclassification to non- 1 current inventory 607 607 Other movements 158 835 956 6 319 34 31 December 2015 5,326 56,037 20,579 2,337 2,393 86,672 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1 January 2015 775 10,405 2,887 681 581 15,329 Depreciation 251 4,168 1,028 259 5,706 Disposal and cessation of control of subsidiaries 23 22 166 89 277 Disposals 6 416 5 427 Impairments 5 18 5,147 641 74 5,880 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 16 227 102 345 Reclassification to non- 1 current inventory 103 103 Other movements 5 156 36 29 9 135 31 December 2015 995 19,067 4,324 784 728 25,898 Net book value 31December2015 4,331 36,970 16,255 1,553 1,665 60,774 1 Represents a net reclassification of $504 million, including net realisable value adjustments of $103 million, from deferred mining costs to non-current inventory to better reflect the nature of these items see note 11.
Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $4,599 million 2015: $5,011 million and a net book value of $592 million 2015: $596 million of obligations recognised under finance lease agreements.
Mineral and petroleum rights include biological assets of $21 million 2015: $71 million.
Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $5,457 million 2015: $5,683 million, in selling and administrative expenses $20 million 2015: $23 million and in discontinued operation $60 million 2015: $Nil.
During 2016, $49 million 2015: $163 million of interest was capitalised.
With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 3% 2015: 2.9%.
As at 31 December 2016, no property, plant or equipment was pledged as security for borrowings 2015: $Nil.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 155 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 8.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Licences, Royalty and Port allocation trademarks and acquired offtake US$ million Notes Goodwill rights software arrangements Total Cost: 1 January 2016 14,122 1,252 394 318 16,086 Disposal of subsidiaries 23 829 15 8 98 950 Additions 13 3 16 Disposals 1 15 16 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 166 2 2 170 Other movements 6 1 33 38 31 December 2016 13,293 1,408 385 258 15,344 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 January 2016 8,243 67 156 104 8,570 Disposal of subsidiaries 23 9 5 20 34 1 Amortisation expense 28 31 36 95 Impairments 5 5 5 Disposals 15 15 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 14 1 15 Other movements 10 2 8 31 December 2016 8,243 100 163 122 8,628 Net carrying amount 31 December 2016 5,050 1,308 222 136 6,716 1 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Licences, Royalty and Port allocation trademarks acquired offtake US$ million Notes Goodwill rights and software arrangements Total Cost: 1 January 2015 14,122 2,369 365 485 17,341 Disposal and cessation of control of subsidiaries 23 670 116 786 Additions 26 18 44 Disposals 2 73 75 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 479 10 9 498 Other movements 32 15 13 60 31 December 2015 14,122 1,252 394 318 16,086 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 January 2015 8,124 94 111 146 8,475 Disposal and cessation of control of subsidiaries 23 46 28 74 1 Amortisation expense 42 29 58 129 Impairments 5 119 29 148 Disposals 2 70 72 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 23 7 5 35 Other movements 4 3 1 31 December 2015 8,243 67 156 104 8,570 Net carrying amount 31 December 2015 5,879 1,185 238 214 7,516 1 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
156 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs as follows: US$ million 2016 2015 Grain marketing business 829 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326 Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674 Metals warehousing business 50 50 Total 5,050 5,879 Grain marketing business Goodwill of $829 million was recognised in previous business combinations attributable to synergies associated with the grain marketing division CGU, which was derecognised as a result of the disposal of Glencore Agri see note 23.
Metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses Goodwill of $3,326 million and $1,674 million was recognised in connection with previous business combinations and was allocated to the metals and minerals marketing and coal marketing CGUs respectively, based on the annual synergies expected to accrue to the respective marketing departments as a result of increased volumes, blending opportunities and freight and logistics arbitrage opportunities.
Metals warehousing business Goodwill of $50 million 2015: $50 million relates to the Pacorini warehousing business CGU.
Port allocation rights Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal Terminal in South Africa recognised as part of previous business combinations.
The rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life of the port of 40 years.
Licences, trademarks and software Intangibles related to internally developed technology and patents were recognised in previous business combinations and are amortised over the estimated economic life of the technology which ranges between 10 15 years.
Royalty and acquired offtake arrangements The fair value of a royalty income stream related to output from the Antamina copper mine was recognised as part of a previous business combination.
This amount is amortised on a unit of production basis through to 2027, the expected mine life.
Acquired offtake arrangements represent contractual entitlements acquired from third parties to provide marketing services and receive certain products produced from a mining or processing operation over a finite period of time.
These rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the contractual term which currently ranges between 10 15 years.
Goodwill impairment testing For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management monitors and manages the goodwill.
In assessing whether an impairment is required, the carrying value of the CGU is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD and its value in use VIU.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
Given the nature of each CGUs activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers or similar transactions are taking place.
Consequently, the recoverable amount for each of the marketing CGUs is determined by reference to the FVLCD compared against a VIU cash flow projection which utilises a price to earnings multiple approach based on the 2016 approved financial budget which includes factors such as marketing volumes handled and operating, interest and income tax charges, generally based on past experience.
The price to earnings multiple of 13.5 times 2015: 11.0 times is derived from observable market data for broadly comparable businesses: and Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value of the CGU.
The determination of FVLCD for each of the marketing CGUs uses Level 3 valuation techniques inboth years.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 157 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 9.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS Investments in associates and joint ventures 2015 1 US$ million Notes 2016 Restated 1 January 11,337 12,274 Additions 15 236 Disposals 9 612 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 11 99 Share of income from associates and joint ventures from discontinued operations 23 15 2 Share of other comprehensive income from associates and joint ventures 26 Fair value of retained interest in Glencore Agri 23 3,125 Disposal of equity accounted investments within Glencore Agri 23 624 Dividends received 833 428 Impairments 5 193 Discontinued operations share of impairments 5 16 Reclassification 46 46 Other movements 3 45 31 December 13,086 11,337 Of which: Investments in associates 6,910 8,166 Investments in joint ventures 6,176 3,171 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustments made relating to discontinued operations see note 23.
As at 31 December 2016, the fair value of listed associates and joint ventures, which have a carrying value of $555 million 2015: $681 million, using published price quotations a Level 1 fair value measurement was $424 million 2015: $255 million.
The 2016 and 2015 balance mainly comprises Century Aluminum which has a carrying value of $460 million 2015: $592 million.
Additions In June 2015, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 50% stake in the Barcarena grain terminal in northern Brazil for $115 million.
With this acquisition, Glencore now owns two key ports in the Northern corridor of Brazil which is expected to give access to fast growing origination areas like Mato Grosso and Matopiba, enabling the Group to increase its marketing of corn and soya beans.
Disposals 2015 disposals mainly relate to the in specie distribution of the stake in Lonmin plc see notes 3 and 16.
158 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Details of material associates and joint ventures Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures, is set out below.
Total material Total material Total material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi Glencore Agri joint ventures joint ventures 2016 Non-current assets 2,487 4,313 6,800 4,504 4,461 8,965 15,765 Current assets 670 952 1,622 1,164 6,354 7,518 9,140 Non-current liabilities 604 1,064 1,668 1,032 841 1,873 3,541 Current liabilities 291 470 761 442 6,286 6,728 7,489 The above assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 108 90 198 127 147 274 472 1 Current financial liabilities 1 77 78 2 3,420 3,422 3,500 1 Non-current financial liabilities 135 135 77 603 680 815 Net assets 31 December 2016 2,262 3,731 5,993 4,194 3,688 7,882 13,875 Glencores ownership interest 33.3% 33.8% 44.0% 50.0% Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,028 2,021 3,049 1,176 1,311 2,487 5,536 Carrying value 1,781 3,282 5,063 3,021 3,155 6,176 11,239 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2016, including group adjustments relating to alignment of accounting policies or fair value adjustments, is set out below.
Total material Total material Total material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi Glencore Agri joint ventures joint ventures 2016 Revenue 1,822 2,429 4,251 2,285 2,170 4,455 8,706 Loss income for the year 913 584 329 459 76 535 206 Other comprehensive loss income 11 10 1 1 Total comprehensive loss income 913 584 329 448 86 534 205 Glencores share of dividends paid 105 338 443 352 352 795 The above profit for the year includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation 534 774 1,308 581 20 601 1,909 1 Interest income 28 28 112 13 41 2 Interest expense 14 31 45 25 11 36 81 3 Impairment, net of tax 1,036 1,036 1,036 Income tax expense 49 420 469 168 32 200 669 1 Includes foreign exchange gains and other income of $37 million.
2 Includes foreign exchange losses of $49 million.
3 Glencores attributable share of impairments relating to Cerrejn amounts to $345 million, net of taxes of $176 million, resulting from reduced near term production estimates due to increased risks related to delays in securing approvals as a result of continued social and environmental challenges to current mine plans.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and a 10% decrease of the price assumptions would result in a further impairment of $293 million.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 159 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 9.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS continued Total material Total material Total material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures 2015 Non-current assets 2,744 4,279 7,023 4,609 4,609 11,632 Current assets 595 951 1,546 1,144 1,144 2,690 Non-current liabilities 859 948 1,807 986 986 2,793 Current liabilities 202 286 488 273 273 761 The above assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 150 133 283 166 166 449 1 Current financial liabilities 5 61 66 3 3 69 1 Non-current financial liabilities 167 167 75 75 242 Net assets 31 December 2015 2,278 3,996 6,274 4,494 4,494 10,768 Glencores ownership interest 33.3% 33.8% 44.0% Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,431 2,073 3,504 1,194 1,194 4,698 Carrying value 2,190 3,422 5,612 3,171 3,171 8,783 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2015, is set out below.
Total material Total material Total material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures 2015 Revenue 1,859 2,080 3,939 1,991 1,991 5,930 Loss income for the year 187 411 224 166 166 390 Other comprehensive income 9 9 9 Total comprehensive loss income 187 411 224 157 157 381 Glencores share of dividends paid 53 206 259 110 110 369 The above profit for the year includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation 557 721 1,278 586 586 1,864 1 Interest income 2 2 36 36 38 2 Interest expense 18 9 27 10 10 37 Income tax expense 178 233 411 54 54 465 1 Includes foreign exchange gains and other income of $37 million.
2 Includes foreign exchange losses of $7 million.
Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material: US$ million 2016 2015 The Groups share of loss 122 48 The Groups share of other comprehensive income loss 22 The Groups share of total comprehensive income loss 122 70 Aggregate carrying value of the Groups interests 1,847 2,554 Glencores share of total comprehensive income did not include joint ventures other than the material joint ventures discussed above.
The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of associates and joint ventures as at 31 December 2016 was $470 million 2015: $337 million.
In addition, there still exist guarantees amounting to $7,339 million in favour of Glencore Agri and, following release of its 2016 consolidated financial results expected by end of Q1 2017, as part of post-completion matters, Glencore expects to terminate these, with the exception of $400 million related to legacy Viterra 2020 bonds outstanding.
No amounts have been claimed or provided as at 31 December 2016.
Glencores share of joint ventures capital commitments amounts to $154 million 2015: $176 million.
160 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Other investments US$ million 2016 2015 Available for sale United Company Rusal plc 562 407 OAO NK Russneft 895 685 1,457 1,092 Fair value through profit and loss Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
124 95 Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps 78 40 Other 94 78 296 213 Total 1,753 1,305 Available for sale investments Glencore accounts for its interests in United Company Rusal plc and OAO NK Russneft Russneft as available for sale investments at fair value with mark-to-market movements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Although Glencore holds a 25% interest in Russneft, it does not exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions of Russneft.
ADVANCES AND LOANS US$ million 2016 2015 1 Loans to associates 526 436 Rehabilitation trust fund 193 152 2 Other non-current receivables and loans 2,764 2,417 Total 3,483 3,005 1 Loans to associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium.
2 Includes advances, net of $2,284 million 2015: $1,427 million provided by various banks.
Rehabilitation trust fund Glencore makes contributions to controlled funds that were established to meet the costs of its restoration and rehabilitation liabilities, primarily in South Africa.
These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group, and there is no present obligation to make any further contributions.
Other non-current receivables and loans comprise the following: US$ million 2016 2015 Counterparty 1 Secured marketing related financing arrangements 1,043 1,004 Socit Nationale dElectricit SNEL power advances 295 266 Chad State National Oil Company 389 544 Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo 292 165 Iron ore prepayment 89 Other 656 438 Total 2,764 2,417 1 Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and or payable from the future sale of production of the counterparty.
The advances and loans are interest-bearing and on average are to be repaid over a three-year period.
SNEL power advances In early 2012, a joint agreement with Socit Nationale dlectricit SNEL, the Democratic Republic of the Congos DRC national electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencores operations will contribute $386 million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment programme, including transmission and distribution systems.
This is expected to facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 450 megawatts by the end of 2017.
Funding commenced in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until the end of 2017.
The loans are being repaid via discounts on electricity purchases, which will accelerate upon completion of the refurbishment programme.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 161 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 10.
ADVANCES AND LOANS continued Chad State National Oil Company Glencore has provided a net $418 million 2015: $544 million to the Chad State National Oil Company SHT to be repaid through future oil deliveries over seven years.
As at 31 December 2016, the advance is net of $972 million 2015: $905 million provided by a syndicate of banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due from SHT under the prepayment.
Of the net amount advanced, $389 million 2015: $544 million is receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other non-current receivables and loans and $29 million 2015: $Nil is due within 12 months, such amounts included within Accounts receivable.
Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo SNPC In 2016, Glencore advanced an additional $118 million to SNPC, repayable through future oil deliveries over five years.
As at 31 December 2016, the total advance of $336 million 2015: $218 million is recorded net of $512 million 2015: $522 million provided by the bank market, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future receipt of oil contractually due from SNPC.
Of the net amount advanced, $292 million 2015: $165 million is due after 12 months and is presented within Other long-term receivables and loans and $44 million 2015: $53 million is due within 12 months and included within Accounts receivable.
Iron ore prepayment In 2016, Glencore advanced $160 million to iron ore suppliers to be repaid through future iron ore deliveries over two years.
As at 31 December 2016, the total advance of $1,571 million is recorded net of $1,414 million provided by the bank market, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future receipt of iron ore contractually due from the counterpart.
Of the net amount advanced, $89 million is due after 12 months and presented within Other long-term receivables and loans and $68 million is due within 12 months and included within Accounts receivable.
INVENTORIES Current inventory Inventories of $18,347 million 2015: $18,303 million comprise $11,323 million 2015: $10,928 million of inventories carried at fair value less costs of disposal and $7,024 million 2015: $7,375 million valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The amount of inventories and related ancillary costs recognised as an expense during the year approximates the cost of goods sold balance.
Fair value of inventories is a Level 2 fair value measurement see note 26 using observable market prices obtained from exchanges, traded reference indices or market survey services adjusted for relevant location and quality differentials.
There are no significant unobservable inputs in the fair value measurement of such inventories.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its inventories.
In each case, the inventory has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as current borrowings see note 18.
As at 31 December 2016, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was $1,632 million 2015: $1,649 million.
The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $1,320 million 2015: $1,607 million and $61 million 2015: $Nil were recognised as non-current borrowings.
Non-current inventory $564 million 2015: $504 million of inventories valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value are not expected to be utilised or sold within 12 months and are therefore classified as non-current inventory.
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE US$ million 2016 2015 1 Trade receivables 10,482 10,175 1,2, 3 Trade advances and deposits 7,053 4,206 1 Associated companies 444 414 Income tax receivable 201 306 Other receivables 1,886 1,900 Total 20,066 17,001 1 Collectively referred to as receivables presented net of allowance for doubtful debts.
2 Includes advances, net of $614 million 2015: $180 million provided by banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future delivery of contractual production over the next 12 months.
3 In December 2015, impairments of $359 million were recognised reflecting non-performance of contractual terms and a recoverable value provision in respect of trade advances and deposits see note 5.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 25 days 2015: 27 days.
As at 31 December 2016, 7% 2015: 6% of receivables were between 1 to 60 days overdue, and 4% 2015: 5% were greater than 60 days overdue.
Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances.
162 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed below: US$ million 2016 2015 1 January 269 293 Released during the year 58 62 Charged during the year 232 80 Utilised during the year 46 42 Disposal of subsidiaries 102 31 December 295 269 Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables.
The receivables have not been derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
As at 31 December 2016, the total amount of trade receivables secured was $1,917 million 2015: $2,205 million and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to $1,670 million 2015: $1,937 million.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS US$ million 2016 2015 Bank and cash on hand 2,050 2,059 Deposits and treasury bills 458 648 Total 2,508 2,707 As at 31 December 2016, $22 million 2015: $22 million was restricted.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES Number of shares Share capital Share premium thousand US$ million US$ million Authorised: 31 December 2016 and 2015 Ordinary shares with a par value of $0.01 each 50,000,000 Issued and fully paid up: 1 January 2015 13,278,405 133 52,533 Share issuance 1,307,795 13 2,431 Distributions paid see note 16 2,626 31 December 2015 Ordinary shares 14,586,200 146 52,338 31 December 2016 Ordinary shares 14,586,200 146 52,338 In September 2015, a total of 1,307,794,600 new ordinary shares in Glencore were placed at a price of 125 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of approximately $2.5 billion.
The new shares issued represented approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital prior to the placing.
Treasury Shares Trust Shares Total Number Share Number Share Number Share of shares premium of shares premium of shares premium thousand US$ million thousand US$ million thousand US$ million Own shares: 1 January 2015 143,278 758 150,462 735 293,740 1,493 Own shares purchased during the year 58,050 240 28,843 41 86,893 281 Own shares transferred to satisfy employee share awards 9,869 50 9,869 50 Own shares disposed during the year 14,770 62 14,770 62 31 December 2015 191,459 948 174,404 764 365,863 1,712 1 January 2016 191,459 948 174,404 764 365,863 1,712 Own shares purchased during the year Own shares transferred to satisfy employee share awards Own shares disposed during the year 7,474 12 7,474 12 31 December 2016 191,459 948 166,930 752 358,389 1,700 Glencore Annual Report 2016 163 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 14.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued Own shares Own shares comprise shares acquired under the Companys previous share buy-back programme and shares of Glencore plc held by Group employee benefit trusts the Trusts to satisfy the potential future settlement of the Groups employee stock plans, primarily assumed as part of previous business combinations.
The Trusts also coordinate the funding and manage the delivery of ordinary shares and free share awards under certain of Glencores share plans.
The shares have been acquired by either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The Trusts are permitted to sell the shares and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
The Trusts have waived the right to receive distributions from the shares that they hold.
Costs relating to the administration of the Trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Other reserves Net ownership Translation Cash flow hedge Net unrealised changes in US$ million adjustment reserve gain loss subsidiaries Other reserves Total 1 January 2015 2,163 58 501 815 10 2,409 Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 1,727 1,727 Loss on cash flow hedges, netof tax 89 89 Loss on available for sale financial instruments 489 489 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 16 16 Foreign currency translation losses recycled to the statement of income 311 311 31 December 2015 3,579 31 12 831 10 4,419 1 January 2016 3,579 31 12 831 10 4,419 Exchange gain on translation of foreign operations 440 440 Gain on cash flow hedges, net of tax 99 99 Gain on available for sale financial instruments 365 365 Reclassifications 31 301 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 68 68 Discontinued operations 22 21 43 Items recycled to the statement of income upon disposal of subsidiaries see note 23 595 3 10 602 31 December 2016 2,553 116 377 752 10 2,802 164 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 15.
EARNINGS PER SHARE 2015 1 US$ million 2016 Restated Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Parent Continuing operations 744 5,220 Discontinued operations 2,123 256 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Parent for basic earnings per share 1,379 4,964 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share thousand 14,224,100 13,317,970 Effect of dilution: 2 Equity-settled share-based payments thousand 134,179 2 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share thousand 14,358,279 Basic earnings loss per share US$ Continuing operations 0.05 0.39 Discontinued operations 0.15 0.02 Total basic earnings loss per share 0.10 0.37 2 Diluted earnings loss per share US$ Continuing operations 0.05 0.39 Discontinued operations 0.15 0.02 Total diluted earnings loss per share 0.10 0.37 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustments made relating to discontinued operations see note 23.
2 As both the result attributable to equity holders and to Headline results is a loss in 2015, the effect has not been presented as this would be anti-dilutive.
Headline earnings: Headline earnings is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE defined performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline earnings as determined by the requirements of the Circular 2 2015 as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA, is reconciled using the following data: US$ million 2016 2015 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Parent from continuing and discontinued operations for basic earnings per share 1,379 4,964 2 Net gain loss on disposals 2,370 1,061 Net loss on disposals non-controlling interest 31 Net loss gain on disposals tax 148 263 3 Impairments 1,789 6,692 Impairments non-controlling interest 16 2,611 Impairments tax 573 316 Headline and diluted earnings loss for the year 357 432 Headline earnings loss per share US$ 0.03 0.03 1 Diluted headline earnings loss per share US$ 0.03 0.03 1 In 2016 equity-settled share-based payments are only dilutive with respect to Headline earnings per share calculation.
As both the result attributable to equity holders and to Headline results is a loss in 2015, the effect has not been presented as this would be anti-dilutive.
2 2016 comprises gain on disposals and investments of $452 million, gain on disposals of property, plant and equipment of $37 million, gain on disposal of Glencore Agri of $1,848 million and gain on disposals and investments as reported in discontinued operations of $33 million see notes 3, 4 and 23.
2015 comprises losses on disposals and investments of $994 million, loss from metal leak of $60 million and loss on vessel charter contract and net other expenses of $7 million see notes 3 and 4.
3 Comprises impairments of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets see note 5 and impairments related to Cerrejn of $521 million.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 165 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 16.
DISTRIBUTIONS US$ million 2016 2015 Paid during the year: Final distribution for 2015 $Nil per ordinary share 2014: $0.12 per ordinary share 1,551 Interim distribution for 2016 $Nil per ordinary share 2015: $0.06 per ordinary share 777 In specie distribution of Groups 23.9% in Lonmin plc 298 Total 2,626 As announced on 7 September 2015, the final distribution for 2015 and the interim distribution for 2016 were suspended.
The proposed distribution of $7 cents per ordinary share amounting to $996 million is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Distributions declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 are expected to be paid equally $3.5 cents each in May 2017 and September 2017.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Number of Number of awards awards Expense Expense Number of Fair value at outstanding outstanding recognised recognised awards granted grant date 2016 2015 2016 2015 thousand US$ million thousand thousand US$ million US$ million Deferred Bonus Plan 2014 Series 3,633 20 2,455 2015 Series 15,634 35 14,315 15,634 35 2016 Series 14,177 34 14,177 34 33,444 28,492 18,089 34 35 Performance Share Plan 2013 Series 12,048 65 4,075 6 20 2014 Series 20,908 115 10,485 11,035 21 46 2015 Series 77,062 106 75,316 44,475 48 2016 Series 6,835 24 6,835 116,853 92,636 59,585 75 66 Total 150,297 121,128 77,674 109 101 Deferred Bonus Plan Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, the payment of a portion of a participants annual bonus is deferred for a period of one to two years as an award of either ordinary shares a Bonus Share Award or cash a Bonus Cash Award.
The awards are vested at grant date with no further service conditions, however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events.
The Bonus Share Awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settlement, including distributions paid between award and settling.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares.
The associated expense is recorded in the statement of income loss as part of the expense for performance bonuses.
Performance Share Plan Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan PSP, participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over a specified period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events.
At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent to one ordinary share of Glencore.
The awards vest in three or five equal tranches on 30 June, 31 December or 31 January of the years following the year of grant, as may be the case.
The fair value of the awards is determined by reference to the market price of Glencores ordinary shares at grant date.
The PSP awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including distributions paid between award and vesting.
166 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Share-based awards assumed in previous business combinations Total options Weighted outstanding average exercise thousands price GBP 1 January 2015 148,562 3.83 Forfeited Lapsed Exercised 1,960 1.69 31 December 2015 146,602 1 January 2016 146,602 3.89 Dilution due to share issue 322 Forfeited Lapsed 5,424 2.85 Exercised 228 1.10 31 December 2016 141,272 1 The weighted average share price at date of exercise of the share based awards was GBP2.80 2015: GBP2.89.
As at 31 December 2016, a total of 141,271,783 options 2015: 146,601,834 options were outstanding and exercisable, having a range of exercise prices from GBP1.095 to GBP6.87 2015: GBP1.098 to GBP6.880 and a weighted average exercise price of GBP3.8941 2015: GBP3.853.
These outstanding awards have expiry dates ranging from March 2017 to February 2022 2015: March 2016 to February 2022 and a weighted average contractual life of 3.6 years 2015: 2.8 years.
The awards may be satisfied at Glencores option, by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards, when exercised, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury.
BORROWINGS US$ million Notes 2016 2015 Non-current borrowings Capital market notes 21,968 28,938 Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 476 2,994 Finance lease obligations 28 326 376 Other bank loans 418 624 Total non-current borrowings 23,188 32,932 Current borrowings Secured inventory receivables facilities 11 12 2,990 3,544 U. S. commercial paper 15 Capital market notes 4,388 4,474 Finance lease obligations 28 75 88 1 Other bank loans 2,577 2,996 Total current borrowings 10,030 11,117 1 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities In February 2016, fully syndicated and effective from May 2016, Glencore signed a new one-year revolving credit facility for a total amount of $7.7 billion.
This facility refinanced the $8.45 billion one-year revolving credit facility signed in May 2015.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at US$LIBOR plus a margin of 50 60 basis points per annum.
As at 31 December 2016, the active facilities comprise: a $7.7 billion short-term revolving credit facility with a 12 month borrowers term-out option to May 2018 and 12 month extension option: and a $6.8 billion medium-term revolving credit facility to May 2020 with one 12 month extension option or 24 month extension option.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 167 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 18.
In September, issued a 7 year Euro 1,000 million, 1.875% coupon bond.
In October, repurchased bonds with a nominal value of $1,492 million, comprising primarily 2018 and 2019 maturities.
In December, repurchased bonds with a nominal value of $1,137 million, comprising primarily 2019 and 2020 maturities.
Secured facilities US$ million Maturity Borrowing base Interest 2016 2015 Syndicated committed metals US$ LIBOR inventory receivables facilities Mar 2017 100 160 bps 100 350 US$ LIBOR Syndicated uncommitted metals 1 Mar Apr Oct 2017 2,936 50 95 110 160 bps 2,340 2,161 inventory receivables facilities Jan Syndicated uncommitted oil US$ LIBOR  Oct 2017 550 95 bps 550 550 Syndicated uncommitted agricultural US$ LIBOR products inventory receivables facilities Jan Oct 2016 70 bps 483 Total 3,586 2,990 3,544 1 Since year-end, in the ordinary course of business, these maturities have been rolled extended as required.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 169 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 19.
DEFERRED INCOME Unfavourable US$ million Notes contracts Prepayments Total 1 January 2015 1,138 135 1,273 Additions 900 900 Utilised in the year 146 149 295 Disposals and loss of control of subsidiaries 23 212 212 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 127 127 31 December 2015 653 886 1,539 Current 53 34 87 Non-current 600 852 1,452 1 January 2016 653 886 1,539 Additions 971 971 Utilised in the year 74 70 144 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 38 38 31 December 2016 617 1,787 2,404 Current 56 82 138 Non-current 561 1,705 2,266 Unfavourable contracts In previous business combinations, Glencore recognised liabilities related to various assumed contractual agreements to deliver tonnes of coal and zinc concentrates over periods ending between 2017 and 2034 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market prices on the respective acquisition dates.
These amounts are released to revenue as the underlying commodities are delivered to the buyers over the life of the contracts at rates consistent with the implied forward price curves at the time of the acquisitions.
Prepayments Antapaccay In February 2016, Glencore entered into a long-term streaming agreement with Franco-Nevada, for the delivery of gold and silver calculated by reference to copper produced by the Antapaccay mine in Peru.
Glencore will deliver 300 ounces of gold per 1,000 tonnes of copper in concentrate until 630,000 ounces of gold have been delivered and 30% of gold production thereafter, and 4,700 ounces of silver per 1,000 tonnes of copper in concentrate until 10,000,000 ounces of silver have been delivered and 30% of silver production thereafter.
In consideration, Franco-Nevada made an advance payment of $500 million and pays an ongoing amount of 20% of the spot gold and silver price per ounce delivered, increasing to 30% of the respective spot prices after 750,000 ounces of gold and 12,800,000 ounces of silver have been delivered under the streaming agreement.
The arrangement has been accounted for as an executory contract whereby the advance payment has been recorded as deferred revenue.
The revenue from the advance payment is being recognised as the silver and gold is delivered to FrancoNevada at an amount consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction along with the ongoing cash payments.
An accretion expense, representing the time value of the upfront deposit on the deferred revenue balance, is also being recognised.
Ernest Henry In October 2016, Glencore entered into an agreement with Evolution Mining Limited Evolution, whereby Glencore received $669 million cash in return for a 30% economic interest in the Ernest Henry Mine mining operation EHM and an entitlement to 100% of the gold produced from Glencores remaining 70% interest in EHM.
The consideration received was allocated between the two elements of the transaction sale of the 30% interest and the 70% gold prepaid streaming arrangement by estimating the fair value of the gold stream by reference to the net present value of the anticipated gold to be delivered over the life of mine $471 million with the residual amount representing the consideration for the 30% interest $198 million, see note 23.
The gold streaming element of the arrangement has been accounted for as an executory contract whereby the advance payment $471 million has been recorded as deferred revenue.
The revenue from the advance payment is being recognised as the gold is delivered to Evolution at an amount consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction.
170 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Antamina In December 2015, effective 1 October 2015, Glencore entered into a long-term streaming agreement with Silver Wheaton Corporation Silver Wheaton, for the delivery of the equivalent of 33.75% of the silver produced by the Antamina mine Antamina until 140 million ounces of silver is delivered, at which time, the designated percentage reduces to 22.50% of the silver production from Antamina over the remaining life of mine.
In consideration, Silver Wheaton made an up-front advance payment of $900 million and pays an ongoing amount of 20% of the spot silver price for each ounce of silver delivered under the streaming agreement.
The revenue from the advance payment is being recognised as the silver is delivered to Silver Wheaton at an amount consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction along with the ongoing cash payments.
PROVISIONS Post-retirement employee Other employee Rehabilitation Onerous US$ million benefits entitlements costs contracts Other Total 1 January 2015 1,070 308 3,836 1,730 1,187 8,131 Provision utilised in the year 249 137 448 447 457 1,738 Accretion in the year 178 6 184 1 Assumed in business combination 21 21 Disposals and cessation of control 1 ofsubsidiaries 2 241 18 261 Additional provision in the year 102 52 302 189 268 309 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 118 2 118 11 249 31 December 2015 803 221 2,905 1,478 990 6,397 Current 89 155 230 474 Non-current 803 221 2,816 1,323 760 5,923 1 January 2016 803 221 2,905 1,478 990 6,397 Provision utilised in the year 92 34 140 381 555 1,202 Accretion in the year 181 2 183 1 Assumed in business combination 5 154 84 4 247 1 Disposals ofsubsidiaries 6 6 107 78 197 Additional provision in the year 160 32 164 122 448 926 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 5 37 3 35 31 December 2016 860 218 3,194 1,305 812 6,389 Current 144 178 136 458 Non-current 860 218 3,050 1,127 676 5,931 1 See note 23.
Post-retirement employee benefits The provision for post-retirement employee benefits includes pension plan liabilities of $428 million 2015: $346 million and postretirement medical plan liabilities of $432 million 2015: $457 million, see note 21.
Other employee entitlements The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of employment.
The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 171 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 20.
PROVISIONS continued Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of production activities.
These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a projects life, which ranges from two to in excess of 50 years with an average for all sites, weighted by closure provision, of some 16 years.
As outlined in note 1, significant estimates are required in determining the rehabilitation provisions, one of which is the determination of appropriate discount rates.
Decreasing the rates used for active mining and processing operations by 2% would result in an increase in the overall rehabilitation provision by $288 million, with a resulting equal movement in property, plant and equipment.
In the following year, the depreciation expense would increase by some $23 million, with an opposite direction interest expense adjustment of $8 million.
The resulting net impact in the statement of income would be a decrease of $15 million, eventually netting to $Nil over the weighted average settlement date of the provision.
Onerous contracts Onerous contracts represent liabilities related to contractual take or pay commitments for securing coal logistics capacity at fixed prices and quantities higher than the acquisition date forecasted usage and prevailing market price.
The provision is released to costs of goods sold as the underlying commitments are incurred.
Other Other comprises provisions for possible demurrage, mine concession, tax and construction related claims.
Tax disputes Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax laws.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges.
The current open tax matters are spread across numerous jurisdictions and consist primarily of legacy transfer pricing matters that have been open for a number of years and may take several more years to resolve, none of which are individually material.
Accordingly, management does not anticipate a significant risk of material change in estimates within the next financial year.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Total personnel costs, which include salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015, were $4,245 million and $5,287 million, respectively.
Personnel costs related to consolidated industrial subsidiaries of $3,355 million 2015: $4,344 million are included in cost of goods sold.
Other personnel costs, including the deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses.
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices.
Eligibility for participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of hire.
Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans Glencores contributions under these plans amounted to $118 million in 2016 2015: $199 million.
Post-retirement medical plans The Company participates in a number of post-retirement medical plans, principally in Canada, which provide coverage for prescription drugs, medical, dental, hospital and life insurance to eligible retirees.
Almost all of the post-retirement medical plans in the Group are unfunded.
Defined benefit pension plans The Company operates defined benefit plans in various countries, the main locations being Canada, Switzerland, UK and the US.
Approximately 72% of the present value of obligations accrued to date relates to the defined benefit plans in Canada, which are pension plans that provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
Contributions to the Canadian plans are made to meet or exceed minimum funding requirements based on provincial statutory requirements and associated federal taxation rules.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds: however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where Glencore meets the benefit payments as they fall due.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practices in each country.
Responsibility for governance of the plans overseeing all aspects of the plans including investment decisions and contribution schedules lies with Glencore.
Glencore has set up committees to assist in the management of the plans and has also appointed experienced, independent professional experts such as investment managers, actuaries, custodians, and trustees.
172 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The movement in the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans over the year is as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Present value of Net liability for Post-retirement defined benefit Fair value of defined benefit US$ million medical plans obligation plan assets pension plans 1 January 2016 457 3,405 3,059 346 Current service cost 767 67 Past service cost plan amendments 1 3 3 Settlement 94 90 4 Termination benefit 44 Interest expense income 18 126 116 10 Total expense recognised in consolidated statement of income 26 100 26 74 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 59 59 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 13 13 Loss from change in financial assumptions 5 137 137 Gain from actuarial experience 3 3 3 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense 4 4 Actuarial losses gains recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2 117 59 58 Employer contributions 72 72 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid directly by the Company 20 9 9 Benefits paid from plan assets 192 192 Net cash outflow inflow 20 200 128 72 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 48 487 529 42 Exchange differences 15 11 31 20 Other 33 476 498 22 31 December 2016 432 2,946 2,518 428 1 See note 23.
The Group expects to make a contribution of $101 million to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans during the next financial year.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 173 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 21.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued Defined benefit pension plans Present value of Net liability for Post-retirement defined benefit Fair value of defined benefit US$ million medical plans obligation plan assets pension plans 1 January 2015 539 4,185 3,654 531 Current service cost 972 72 Past service cost plan amendments 1 1 1 Settlement 183 177 6 Termination benefit Interest expense income 20 139 123 16 Total expense recognised in consolidated statement of income 28 29 54 83 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 86 86 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 1 3 3 Loss gain from change in financial assumptions 2 39 39 Gain loss from actuarial experience 5 10 10 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense 4 4 Actuarial gains recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 4 36 86 122 Employer contributions 108 108 Employee contributions 2 2 Benefits paid directly by the Company 24 10 10 Benefits paid from plan assets 217 217 Net cash outflow inflow 24 225 117 108 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 3 1 2 Exchange differences 82 545 509 36 Other 82 548 510 38 31 December 2015 457 3,405 3,059 346 1 See note 23.
The defined benefit obligation accrued in Canada represents the majority for the Company.
The breakdown below provides details of the Canadian plans for both the statement of financial position and the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2016 and 2015.
The defined benefit obligation of any other of the Groups defined benefit plans as at 31 December 2016 does not exceed $227 million 2015: $195 million.
2016 US$ million Canada Other Total Post-retirement medical plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 402 30 432 of which: amounts owing to active members 123 4 127 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 279 26 305 Defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,112 834 2,946 of which: amounts owing to active members 545 383 928 of which: amounts owing to non-active members 44 241 285 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,523 210 1,733 Fair value of plan assets 1,981 537 2,518 Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2016 131 297 428 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 18 14 174 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2015 US$ million Canada Other Total Post-retirement medical plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 395 62 457 of which: amounts owing to active members 121 21 142 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 274 41 315 Defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,534 871 3,405 of which: amounts owing to active members 571 457 1,028 of which: amounts owing to non-active members 102 197 299 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,861 217 2,078 Fair value of plan assets 2,454 605 3,059 Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2015 80 266 346 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 13 18 14 The actual return on plan assets in respect of defined benefit pension plans amounted to a gain of $206 million 2015: loss of $300 million.
The plan assets consist of the following: US$ million 2016 2015 Cash and short-term investments 105 88 Fixed income 1,210 1,605 Equities 1,076 1,180 1 Other 127 186 Total 2,518 3,059 1 Includes securities in non-active markets in the amount of $18 million 2015: $58 million.
The fair value of plan assets includes none of Glencores own financial instruments and no property occupied by or other assets used by Glencore.
For many of the plans, representing a large portion of the global plan assets, asset-liability matching strategies are in place, where the fixed-income assets are invested broadly in alignment with the duration of the plan liabilities, and the proportion allocated to fixed-income assets is raised when the plan funding level increases.
Through its defined benefit plans, Glencore is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The funded plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform bonds in the long term while contributing volatility and risk in the short term.
Glencore believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of Glencores long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Change in bond yields: A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk: Some of the plans benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, inmost cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
Life expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liability.
Salary increases: Some of the plans benefit obligations related to active members are linked to their salaries.
Higher salary increases will therefore tend to lead to higher plan liabilities.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 175 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 21.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued The principal weighted-average actuarial assumptions used were as follows: Post-retirement medical plans Defined benefit pension plans 2016 2015 2016 2015 Discount rate 4.1% 4.2% 3.5% 3.7% Future salary increases 2.8% 2.8% 2.8% 2.7% Future pension increases 0.3% 0.4% Ultimate medical cost trend rate 4.2% 4.3% Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned.
As at 31 December 2016, these tables imply expected future life expectancy, for employees aged 65, 19 to 24 years for males 2015: 19 to 24 and 22 to 25 years for females 2015: 23 to 26.
The assumptions for each country are reviewed each year and are adjusted where necessary to reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal assumptions as at 31 December 2016 is set out below, assuming that all other assumptions are held constant and the effect of interrelationships is excluded.
Increase decrease in pension obligation Post-retirement Defined benefit US$ million medical plans pension plans Total Discount rate Increase by 100 basis points 58 352 410 Decrease by 100 basis points 66 422 488 Rate of future salary increase Increase by 100 basis points 41 41 Decrease by 100 basis points 38 38 Rate of future pension benefit increase Increase by 100 basis points 33 33 Decrease by 100 basis points 29 29 Medical cost trend rate Increase by 100 basis points 56 56 Decrease by 100 basis points 45 45 Life expectancy Increase in longevity by one year 13 68 81 22.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE US$ million 2016 2015 Trade payables 22,438 19,424 Trade advances from buyers 1,071 1,684 Associated companies 635 467 Other payables and accrued liabilities 2,032 2,513 Total 26,176 24,088 Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services.
Trade payables typically have maturities up to 90 days depending on the type of material and the geographic area in which the purchase transaction occurs and the agreed terms.
The carrying value of trade payables approximates fair value.
176 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 23.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES 2016 Acquisitions In 2016, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Newlands Collinsville Abbot Point Joint Venture NCA.
The net cash received in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date are detailed below: US$ million NCA Other Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 39 20 59 Advances and loans 2 2 41 20 61 Current assets Inventories 41 7 48 1 Accounts receivable 24 6 30 Cash and cash equivalents 11 11 76 13 89 Non-current liabilities Provisions 242 4 246 242 4 246 Current liabilities Borrowings 10 10 Accounts payable 33 17 50 Provisions 1 1 Other financial liabilities 8 8 42 27 69 Total fair value of net liabilities assets acquired 167 2 165 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 11 11 Net cash received used in acquisition of subsidiaries 178 2 176 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
NCA In September 2016, Glencore completed the acquisition of the remaining 45% interest in NCA, for cash consideration received of $167 million.
This increased Glencores ownership from 55% to 100%, providing the ability to exercise control over NCA.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2016, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $173 million and an additional attributable loss of $21 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $72 million and $25 million of revenue and attributable income, respectively.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 177 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 23.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES continued 2015 Acquisitions In 2015, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Prokon Pflanzenl GmbH, subsequently renamed Glencore Magdeburg GmbH Magdeburg and Twin Rivers Technologies Enterprises fide Transformation fide Graines Olagineuses Du Qubec Inc. TRT.
These operations are part of the Glencore Agri Group, which was disposed on 1 December 2016, see below.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition dates are detailed below: US$ million Magdeburg TRT Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 178 108 286 Deferred tax assets 39 39 178 147 325 Current assets Inventories 544 49 1 Accounts receivable 622 28 Other financial assets 13 4 Cash and cash equivalents 45 9 16 74 90 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 22 22 Provisions 21 21 43 43 Current liabilities Accounts payable 14 23 37 Other financial liabilities 3 5 8 17 28 45 Total fair value of net assets acquired 134 193 327 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 5 9 Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 130 188 318 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
Magdeburg In March 2015, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Magdeburg for a cash consideration of $134 million.
The acquisition of Magdeburg, an integrated oilseeds crushing and biodiesel plant located in Germany, adds further value to and enlarges our crushing portfolio in Europe, allowing Glencore to further optimise around this business sector.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2015, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $15 million and an additional attributable loss of $2 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $161 million and $10 million of revenue and attributable loss, respectively.
TRT In November 2015, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in TRT for a cash consideration of $193 million.
TRT owns the largest oilseed crushing and refining plant in Quebec, Canada with a capacity of 1.05 million tonnes per year.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2015, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $237 million and an additional attributable loss of $20 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $65 million and $1 million of revenue and attributable income, respectively.
The acquisition accounting for Magdeburg and TRT have now been finalised, with no adjustments to the previously reported provisional fair values.
178 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2016 Disposals In 2016, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in the Glencore Agricultural products business Glencore Agri, Ernest Henry mining operation EHM and its New South Wales coal rail haulage business GRail.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and the net cash received from these disposals are detailed below: US$ million Glencore Agri EHM GRail Others Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 2,919 244 413 212 3,788 Intangible assets 892 24 916 Investments in associates 624 624 Advances and loans 116 13 129 Deferred tax assets 103 1 104 4,654 244 413 250 5,561 Current assets Inventories 2,725 6 57 2,788 Accounts receivable 2,774 1 2 77 2,854 Other financial assets 7462 748 Cash and cash equivalents 469 27 496 6,714 7 2 163 6,886 Non-controlling interest 37 29 66 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 602 1 603 Deferred tax liabilities 138 36 30 204 Provisions 111 9 40 160 851 45 71 967 Current liabilities Borrowings 3,751 35 3,786 Accounts payable 2,315 7 5 54 2,381 Provisions 36 1 37 Other financial liabilities 629 2 631 6,731 8 5 91 6,835 Carrying value of net assets disposed 3,749 198 410 222 4,579 Cash and cash equivalents received 3,125 198 840 198 4,361 Future consideration 46 46 Items recycled to the statement of income 602 602 1 Reclassified to investment in joint venture 3,125 3,125 Transaction fees 51 51 Net gain on disposal 1,848 430 22 2,300 Cash and cash equivalents received 3,125 198 840 198 4,361 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed 469 27 496 Settlement of debt due from Glencore Agri 1,670 1,670 Net cash received from disposal 4,326 198 840 171 5,535 1 Includes a gain of $1,252 million attributable to the remeasurement of the retained Glencore Agri investment to its fair value upon change in control.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 179 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 23.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES continued Glencore Agri On 6 April 2016, Glencore announced that it had entered into an agreement with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board for the sale of a 40% equity interest in Glencore Agri and on 9 June 2016, entered into an agreement with British Columbia Investment Management Corporation for the sale of a 10% equity interest in Glencore Agri.
The aggregate equity consideration for the combined 50% interest, including the indirect assumption of certain levels of net working capital and debt, amounted to $3.125 billion, payable in cash upon closing.
Glencore Agri represents the entire Agricultural products operating segment and was determined to be a discontinued operation prior to the close of transaction on 1 December 2016, and has been disclosed as such.
Upon closing of the sale, Glencore is no longer able to unilaterally direct the key strategic, operating and capital decisions of Glencore Agri and was deemed to dispose of its controlling interest at fair value.
The difference to the net carrying value was recognised through the statement of income, with Glencore subsequently accounting for its share of the resulting joint venture using the equity method in accordance with IFRS 11 and IAS 28 see note 9.
The results of Glencore Agri included in the consolidated statement of income until loss of control are detailed below: US$ million 2016 2015 Revenue 20,885 23,146 Cost of goods sold 20,256 22,449 Selling and administrative expenses 175 175 Share of income from associates 15 2 Gain on disposals and investments 33 Other expense net 26 70 Interest income 9 12 Interest expense 79 103 Income before income taxes from discontinued operations 406 363 Income tax expense 131 107 275 256 Gain on disposal of Glencore Agri, including items recycled to the statement of income of $602 million 1,848 Income for the year from discontinued operations 2,123 256 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests Equity holders of the Parent 2,123 256 Earnings per share discontinued operations: Basic US$ 0.15 0.02 Diluted US$ 0.15 0.02 The net cash flows incurred by Glencore Agri are as follows: US$ million 2016 2015 Net cash used generated from operating activities, after working capital changes 855 1,276 Net cash used in investing activities 11 677 Net cash generated used in financing activities 671 579 Net cash used generated in discontinued operations 195 20 180 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information EHM In October 2016, Glencore entered into an agreement with Evolution Mining Limited Evolution, whereby Glencore received $669 million cash in return for a 30% economic interest in the Ernest Henry Mine mining operation EHM and an entitlement to 100% of the gold produced from Glencores remaining 70% interest in EHM.
The consideration received was allocated between the two elements of the transaction sale of the 30% interest and the 70% gold prepaid streaming arrangement by estimating the fair value of the gold stream by reference to the net present value of the anticipated gold to be delivered over the life of mine $471 million with the residual amount representing the consideration for the 30% interest $198 million.
As part of the transaction, Glencore and Evolution entered into a 70 30 joint venture agreement governing the operations of EHM.
As Glencore is no longer able to unilaterally direct the key strategic, operating and capital decisions of EHM, it is deemed to have lost control of EHM and, together with Evolution, jointly controls it.
As the new arrangement is an unincorporated joint venture, Glencore derecognised 30% of the identified assets and liabilities of EHM against the proceeds received as noted above.
GRail In December 2016, Glencore disposed of its New South Wales coal rail haulage business to Genesee & Wyoming for cash consideration of $840 million A$1.1 billion.
2015 Disposals In 2015, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in Tampakan and Falcondo.
Furthermore, upon Optimum Coal commencing business rescue proceedings, Glencore ceased having control over Optimum in August 2015.
As a result of such loss of control, Optimum was no longer accounted for as a subsidiary and has been deconsolidated see note 3.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are detailed below: 1 US$ million Tampakan Falcondo Optimum Other Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 161 11 809 5 986 Intangible assets 712 712 Loans and advances 1 256 257 162 11 1,777 5 1,955 Current assets Inventories 45 39 12 96 Accounts receivable 2112 3412 79 Cash and cash equivalents 1 15 22 38 21 58 88 46 213 Non-controlling interest 14 243 257 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 142 277 419 Deferred income 150 150 Deferred tax liabilities 1 203 1 205 Provisions 8 110 137 255 150 111 767 1 1,029 Current liabilities Accounts payable 3 5 64 42 114 Deferred income 62 62 Provisions 6 6 3 5 132 42 182 Carrying value of net assets liabilities disposed 16 47 723 8 700 Less: Cash and cash equivalents received 208 40 2 250 Add: Foreign currency translation losses recycled to the statement of income 311 311 Net gain loss on disposal 192 87 1,034 6 761 Cash and cash equivalents received 208 40 2 250 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed 1 15 22 38 Net cash received from disposal 208 39 15 20 212 1 Includes associated impairments of $152 million see note 3.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 181 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 24.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencores operations comprise market risk including commodity price risk, interest rate risk and currency risk, credit risk including performance risk and liquidity risk.
It is Glencores policy and practice to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks for management of margin risk within Glencores extensive and diversified industrial portfolio, refer net present value at risk below to support its objectives in managing its capital and future financial security and flexibility.
Glencores overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible to substantially hedge these financial risks.
Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, manage and report regularly to senior management and the Board of Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group.
Glencores objectives in managing its capital attributable to equity holders include preserving its overall financial health and strength for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at an attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long-term profitability.
Central to meeting these objectives is maintaining an investment grade credit rating status.
Glencores current credit ratings are Baa3 stable from Moodys and BBBpositive outlook from S&P.
Distribution policy and other capital management initiatives In September 2015, the Board determined that no cash distributions would be made in 2016, in an effort to preserve capital and investment grade credit ratings.
In December 2016, Glencore announced the reinstatement of distributions to shareholders.
Initially Glencore will return approximately $1 billion to shareholders in two equal tranches in 2017, to be paid following preliminary full-year results and half-year results.
In 2018, the new cash distribution policy, in respect of 2017 cash flows, comprises the fixed $1 billion component and a variable element representing a minimum 25% of free cash flow attributable to our industrial assets.
The actual variable distribution component minimum 25% pay-out guidance will reflect prevailing market conditions and outlook and be confirmed annually in respect of prior periods cash flows.
Distributions are expected to be formally declared by the Board semi-annually with the preliminary full-year results and half-year results.
Distributions, when declared, will be paid in US dollars, although shareholders will be able to elect to receive their distribution payments in Pounds Sterling, Euros or Swiss Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the date of payment.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register will receive their distributions in Hong Kong dollars, while shareholders on the JSE will receive their distributions in South African Rand.
Commodity price risk Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced forward contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts.
Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure through futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter OTC markets, to the extent available.
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencores physical commodity marketing activities and the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, including clearing brokers and exchanges.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price risk.
The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencores commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
Value at risk One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, principally commodity price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is of a value at risk VaR computation.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates a threshold for potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of confidence and based on a specific price history.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability-based approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be measured consistently across markets and commodities and risk measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Glencores Board has set a consolidated VaR limit one day 95% confidence level of $100 million representing less than 0.5% of total equity, which the Board reviews annually.
In Q2 2016, this limit was technically breached for 1 day by $1 million as the VaR calculation did not account for the future physical coal production that was economically hedged with the corresponding captured and reported on coal derivatives.
If such underlying hedged exposure had been included in the VaR calculation, the actual VaR number would have been substantially lower, with no resulting technical breach.
Much of this hedge book has now been realised.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations computed at a 95% confidence level and utilising a weighted data history for a one-day time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and daily Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups net marketing positions to determine potential losses.
182 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Market risk VaR one-day 95% confidence level ranges and year-end positions were as follows: US$ million 2016 2015 Year-end position 31 18 Average during the year 42 35 High during the year 101 52 Low during the year 16 17 VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by analysing forward looking stress scenarios, benchmarking against an alternative VaR computation based on historical simulations and back testing calculated VaR against the hypothetical portfolio returns arising in the next business day.
Glencores VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals including aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper and lead, coal, iron ore and oil natural gas and assesses the open priced positions which are subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities.
Due to the lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina, molybdenum, cobalt, freight and some risk associated with concentrates as it does not consider the nature of these markets to be suited to this type of analysis.
Alternative measures are used to monitor exposures related to these products.
Net present value at risk Glencores future cash flows related to its forecast energy, metals and minerals and agricultural production activities are also exposed to commodity price movements.
Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter-term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the underlying operations estimated cash flows and valuations.
Interest rate risk Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets and liabilities and cash flows.
Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks: other methods include the use of interest rate swaps and similar derivative instruments.
Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund fast turning working capital interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital is primarily based on US$ LIBOR plus an appropriate premium.
Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 50 basis points higher lower and all other variables held constant, Glencores income and equity for the year ended 31 December 2016 would decrease increase by $100 million 2015: $134 million.
Currency risk The US dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group.
Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the US dollar.
Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency.
Purchases or sales of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are ordinarily hedged through forward exchange contracts.
Consequently, foreign exchange movements against the US dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact.
Glencore enters into currency hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencores debt related payments both principal and interest are overwhelmingly denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into US dollars.
Glencores operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which the US dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South African Rand are the predominant currencies.
Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss Franc, Sterling, Yen and Australian dollar denominated bonds see note 18.
Cross currency swaps were concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds.
These contracts were designated as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds.
The fair value of these derivatives is as follows: Notional amounts Recognised fair values Average US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities maturity Cross currency swap agreements 2016 14,179 26 2,873 2020 Cross currency swap agreements 2015 15,905 34 2,418 2020 1 Refer to note 18 for details.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 183 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 24.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Credit risk Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed payment terms.
Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and non-current advances and loans.
Glencores credit management process includes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis.
Glencores cash and cash equivalents are placed overnight with a diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions.
Credit risk with respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large number of customers comprising Glencores customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as Glencores policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate.
Additionally, it is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances due to from a common counterparty in the event of default by the counterparty.
Glencore actively and continuously monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent internal rating are typically enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance products.
Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 2.9% 2015: 1.9% of its trade receivables on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements or accounting for more than 3.9% of its revenues over the year ended 31 December 2016 2015: 4.7%.
The maximum exposure to credit risk including performance risk see below, without considering netting agreements or without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencores financial assets see note 25.
Performance risk Performance risk part of the broader credit risk subject matter, discussed above is inherent in contracts, with agreements in the future, to physically purchase or sell commodities with fixed price attributes, and arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to from Glencore.
Glencore undertakes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process.
Glencores market breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the vast majority of Glencores commodity portfolio which does not fix prices beyond three months, with the main exception being coal, where longer-term fixed price contracts are common, ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated.
The commodity industry has trended towards shorter-term fixed price contract periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the development of more transparent and liquid spot markets, e. g. coal and iron ore and associated derivative products and indexes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and availability of adequate committed funding facilities.
Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, including via available committed undrawn credit facilities of $3 billion 2015: $3 billion, which has purposely been substantially exceeded in recent years, accounting for the more volatile market backdrop.
Glencores credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements.
As part of its liquidity management, Glencore closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing extension requirements, well ahead of time.
As at 31 December 2016, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities, cash and marketable securities amounting to $16,740 million 2015: $15,155 million.
The maturity profile of Glencores financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows: US$ million 2016 After 5 years Due 3 5 years Due 2 3 years Due 1 2 years Due 0 1 year Total Borrowings 10,687 5,726 2,937 3,838 10,030 33,218 Expected future interest payments 3,318 1,018 616 650 635 6,237 Accounts payable 26,176 26,176 Other financial liabilities 403 6,386 6,789 Total 14,408 6,744 3,553 4,488 43,227 72,420 Current assets 43,412 43,412 184 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information US$ million 2015 After 5 years Due 3 5 years Due 2 3 years Due 1 2 years Due 0 1 year Total Borrowings 11,401 10,949 2,823 7,759 11,117 44,049 Expected future interest payments 3,965 1,515 796 814 935 8,025 Accounts payable 24,088 24,088 Other financial liabilities 186 4,931 5,117 Total 15,552 12,464 3,619 8,573 41,071 81,279 Current assets 42,198 42,198 25.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair value of financial instruments The following tables present the carrying values and fair values of Glencores financial instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing market interest and exchange rates.
The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate the fair values with the exception of $33,218 million 2015: $44,049 million of borrowings, the fair value of which at 31 December 2016 was $33,673 million 2015: $39,406 million based on observable market prices applied to the borrowing portfolio a Level 2 fair value measurement.
US$ million Carrying Available 1 2 2016 value for sale FVtPL Total Assets 3 Other investments 1,457 296 1,753 Advances and loans 3,483 3,483 Accounts receivable 20,066 20,066 Other financial assets see note 26 2,212 2,212 4 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,518 2,518 Total financial assets 23,549 1,457 5,026 30,032 Liabilities Borrowings 33,218 33,218 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 26 403 403 Accounts payable 26,176 26,176 Other financial liabilities see note 26 6,386 6,386 Total financial liabilities 59,394 6,789 66,183 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL Fair value through profit and loss held for trading.
3 Other investments of $1,715 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $38 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured and therefore carried at cost.
The movement in Level 1 measured investments compared to prior year see below, mainly relates to the Groups share in Russneft, which after the listing on the Moscow stock exchange in November 2016, is measured at fair value.
4 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and or market prices.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 185 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 25.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued US$ million Carrying Available 1 2 2015 value for sale FVtPL Total Assets 3 Other investments 1,092 213 1,305 Advances and loans 3,005 3,005 Accounts receivable 17,001 17,001 Other financial assets see note 26 3,701 3,701 4 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,746 2,746 Total financial assets 20,006 1,092 6,660 27,758 Liabilities Borrowings 44,049 44,049 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 26 186 186 Accounts payable 24,088 24,088 Other financial liabilities see note 26 4,931 4,931 Total financial liabilities 68,137 5,117 73,254 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
3 Other investments of $568 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $737 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured and therefore carried at cost.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities In accordance with IAS 32 the Group reports financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the consolidated statement of financial position only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar agreements as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off Total as under netting agreements under netting agreements presented in the Amounts consolidated not subject statement US$ million Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial 2016 amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position 1 Derivative assets 10,679 9,834 845 288 171 386 1,367 2,212 1 Derivative liabilities 14,288 9,834 4,454 288 3,784 382 1,932 6,386 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off Total as under netting agreements under netting agreements presented in the Amounts consolidated not subject statement US$ million Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial 2015 amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position 1 Derivative assets 6,164 4,282 1,882 406 494 982 1,819 3,701 1 Derivative liabilities 6,799 4,282 2,517 406 1,674 437 2,414 4,931 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities may be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Per the terms of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement other than payment if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the party or bankruptcy.
186 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 26.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in outflows.
Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair value of the financial asset or liability as follows: Level 1 Inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Glencore can assess at the measurement date: or Level 2 Inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly: or Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities, requiring Glencore to make market-based assumptions.
Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than one year and options that are exchange traded, whereas Level 2 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than one year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes.
Level 3 classifications primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominantly from models that use broker quotes and applicable market-based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials and financial liabilities linked to the fair value of certain mining operations.
In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs Level 3 fair values, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable balances due to from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy by the counterparty.
The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward purchase and sale commitments by type of contract and non-current other financial liabilities as at 31 December 2016 and 2015.
Other assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis are marketing inventories, other investments, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Refer to notes 11 and 25 for disclosures in connection with these fair value measurements.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
Other financial assets US$ million 2016 Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 207 154 361 Options 31 37 68 Swaps 166 146 312 Physical forwards 763 558 1,321 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 26 26 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 124 124 Total 404 1,250 558 2,212 US$ million 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 889 246 1,135 Options 30 15 45 Swaps 112 556 668 Physical forwards 1,299 224 1,523 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 34 34 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 296 296 Total 1,031 2,446 224 3,701 Glencore Annual Report 2016 187 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 26.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS continued Other financial liabilities US$ million 2016 Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 1,068 150 1,218 Options 512 6 23 Swaps 846 321 1,167 Physical forwards 859 203 1,062 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 2,873 2,873 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 43 43 Current other financial liabilities 1,919 4,258 209 6,386 Non-current other financial liabilities 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 403 403 Non-current other financial liabilities 403 403 Total 1,919 4,258 612 6,789 US$ million 2015 Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 414 33 447 Options 40 4 1 45 Swaps 197 323 520 Physical forwards 1,156 205 1,361 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 2,418 2,418 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 3 137 137 Current other financial liabilities 654 4,071 206 4,931 Non-current other financial liabilities 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 186 186 Non-current other financial liabilities 186 186 Total 654 4,071 392 5,117 1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Groups principal coal joint operations based in South Africa.
The liability arises from ARM Coals rights as an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate.
The derivative liability is settled over the life of those operations modelled mine life of 20 years as at 31 December 2016 and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months.
188 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities: Physical Total US$ million forwards Options Other Level 3 1 January 2015 75 724 295 944 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 36 1 35 Cancellation of put option over non-controlling interest 685 685 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 109 109 Realised 92 39 53 31 December 2015 19 1 186 168 1 January 2016 19 1 186 168 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 258 6 252 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 217 217 Realised 78 1 79 31 December 2016 355 6 403 54 During the year no amounts were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and no amounts were transferred into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for either other financial assets or other financial liabilities.
Some of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The following table provides information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined, in particular, the valuation techniques and inputs used.
Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2016 2015 Futures Level 1 Assets 207 889 Liabilities 1,068 414 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Futures Level 2 Assets 154 246 Liabilities 150 33 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 1 Assets 31 30 Liabilities 5 40 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 2 Assets 37 15 Liabilities 12 4 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 3 Assets Liabilities 6 1 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Standard option pricing model Significant unobservable inputs: Prices are adjusted by volatility differentials.
This significant unobservable input generally represents 2% 20% of the overall value of the instruments.
A change to a reasonably possible alternative assumption would not result in a material change in the underlying value.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 189 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 26.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS continued Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2016 2015 Swaps Level 1 Assets 166 112 Liabilities 846 197 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Swaps Level 2 Assets 146 556 Liabilities 321 323 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 2 Assets 763 1,299 Liabilities 859 1,156 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, such as history of non-performance, collateral held and current market developments, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 3 Assets 558 224 Liabilities 203 205 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Valuation of the Groups commodity physical forward contracts categorised within this level is based on observable market prices that are adjusted by unobservable differentials, as required, including: Quality: Geographic location: Local supply & demand: Customer requirements: and Counterparty credit considerations.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% 30% of the overall value of the instruments.
These differentials are generally symmetrical with an increase decrease in one input resulting in an opposite movement in another input, resulting in no material change in the underlying value.
190 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2016 2015 Cross currency swaps Level 2 Assets 26 34 Liabilities 2,873 2,418 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 1 Assets Liabilities 3 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 2 Assets 124 296 Liabilities 43 137 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Non-discretionary dividend obligation Level 3 Assets Liabilities 403 186 Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model Significant observable inputs: Forecast commodity prices: Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology: Production models: Operating costs: and Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying mining operation.
Increases decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an increase decrease to the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by associated increases decreases in the assumed production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures which are inherently linked to forecast commodity prices.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and a 10% increase decrease in commodity price assumptions would result in an $127 million adjustment to the current carrying value.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 191 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 27.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION US$ million 2016 2015 Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencores consolidated financial statements 3 3 Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 17 19 1 Audit-related assurance services 2 3 Total audit and related assurance fees 22 25 Transaction services 3 Taxation compliance services 3 3 Other taxation advisory services 2 2 Other assurance services 1 1 Total non-audit fees 9 6 Total professional fees 31 31 1 Audit-related assurance services primarily related to interim reviews of the Groups half-year accounts and quarterly accounts of the Groups publicly listed subsidiaries.
FUTURE COMMITMENTS Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated by the respective industrial entities.
As at 31 December 2016, $776 million 2015: $1,088 million, of which 81% 2015: 77% relates to expenditure to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Certain of Glencores exploration tenements and licences require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, a significant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations.
As at 31 December 2016, $177 million 2015: $144 million of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 20% 2015: 29% are for commitments to be settled over the next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessels chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments.
As at 31 December 2016, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of $217 million 2015: $894 million, of which $105 million 2015: $145 million are with associated companies.
46% 2015: 60% of the total charters are for services to be received over the next two years.
As part of Glencores ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the selling party may request that a financial institution act as either a the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying documents through the issuance of a letter of credit or b the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility for Glencores contractual obligations.
Similarly, Glencore is required to post rehabilitation and pension guarantees in respect of some of these future, primarily industrial, long-term obligations.
As at 31 December 2016, $17,358 million 2015: $15,385 million of procurement and $2,972 million 2015: $2,642 million of rehabilitation and pension commitments have been issued on behalf of Glencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity and rehabilitation and pension obligations.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse storage facilities.
Rental expenses for these leases totalled respectively $157 million and $237 million for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015.
Future net minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: US$ million 2016 2015 Within 1 year 106 143 Between 2 5 years 245 346 After 5 years 97 170 Total 448 659 192 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery.
Future net minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows: Undiscounted minimum Present value of minimum lease payments lease payments US$ million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Within 1 year 99 116 75 88 Between 1 and 5 years 259 267 172 193 After 5 years 222 277 154 183 Total minimum lease payments 580 660 401 464 Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 179 196 Present value of minimum lease payments 401 464 401 464 29.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of third parties as at 31 December 2016 was $Nil 2015: $Nil.
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business as detailed below.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a regular basis and where practical an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
As at 31 December 2016 and 2015 it was not practical to make such an assessment.
Litigation Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore.
Whilst Glencore cannot predict the results of any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defences against those actions or claims.
Glencore believes the likelihood of any material liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, therefore resulting from any litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
Environmental contingencies Glencores operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations.
Glencore is in material compliance with those laws and regulations.
Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable.
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.
Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain.
At this time, Glencore is unaware of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Any potential liability arising from these allegations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arms length transactions with related parties, including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency agreements and management service agreements.
Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash see notes 10, 12, and 22.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses between its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In 2016, sales and purchases with associates and joint ventures amounted to $1,570 million 2015: $1,196 million and $3,194 million 2015: $3,562 million respectively.
Remuneration of key management personnel Glencores key management personnel are the members of the Board of Directors, CEO, CFO and the heads of the operating segments.
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the consolidated statement of income including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $13 million 2015: $10 million.
There were no other long-term benefits or share-based payments to key management personnel 2015: $Nil.
Further details on remuneration of Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 99.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 193 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 31.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES WITH MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-controlling interest is comprised of the following: US$ million 2016 2015 Kazzinc 1,396 1,316 Koniambo 2,653 2,460 Katanga 511 196 Mutanda 767 713 Alumbrera 118 126 1 Other 421 590 Total 462 89 1 Other comprises various subsidiaries in which no individual balance attributable to non-controlling interests is material.
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest as at 31 December 2016, reflecting 100% of the underlying subsidiarys relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Kazzinc Koniambo Katanga Mutanda 31 December 2016 Non-current assets 4,703 1,226 4,424 4,763 Current assets 1,014 294 652 549 Total assets 5,717 1,520 5,076 5,312 Non-current liabilities 719 9,494 3,380 1,885 Current liabilities 391 101 1,848 281 Total liabilities 1,110 9,595 5,228 2,166 Net assets 4,607 8,075 152 3,146 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,211 5,422 359 2,379 1 Non-controlling interests 1,396 2,653 511 767 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 51.0% 24.7% 31.0% 2016 Revenue 2,602 152 1,322 Expenses 2,211 529 625 1,147 Net profit loss for the year 391 377 625 175 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 273 184 310 121 1 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 118 193 315 54 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income loss for the year 391 377 625 175 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 38 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 856 161 428 Net cash outflow from investing activities 122 263 213 234 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 567 210 338 195 Total net cash inflow outflow 167 53 36 1 1 Glencore has a 75.3% interest in Katanga Mining Limited, which in turn has a 75% interest in Kamoto Copper Company KCC the entity engaged in copper mining activities.
The non-controlling interests balance includes negative $629 million and the profit attributable to non-controlling interests balance includes negative $214 million related to noncontrolling interests arising at the KCC level.
194 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information US$ million Kazzinc Koniambo Katanga Mutanda 31 December 2015 Non-current assets 4,796 958 4,468 4,814 Current assets 872 337 639 440 Total assets 5,668 1,295 5,107 5,254 Non-current liabilities 975 8,878 3,072 2,028 Current liabilities 344 114 1,562 255 Total liabilities 1,319 8,992 4,634 2,283 Net assets 4,349 7,697 473 2,971 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,033 5,237 669 2,258 1 Non-controlling interests 1,316 2,460 196 713 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 51.0% 24.7% 31.0% 2015 Revenue 2,244 691 1,315 Expenses 2,494 4,824 1,357 1,232 Net loss profit for the year 250 4,824 666 83 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 174 2,364 347 57 1 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 76 2,460 319 26 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive loss income for the year 250 4,824 666 83 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 10 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 591 600 330 Net cash outflow from investing activities 262 360 542 261 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 319 404 1,190 170 Total net cash inflow outflow 10 44 48 101 1 Glencore has a 75.3% interest in Katanga Mining Limited, which in turn has a 75% interest in Kamoto Copper Company KCC the entity engaged in copper mining activities.
The non-controlling interests balance includes negative $416 million and the profit attributable to non-controlling interests balance includes negative $205 million related to noncontrolling interests arising at the KCC level.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Further to the announcements in December 2016, Glencore and Qatar Investment Authority QIA entered into various agreements establishing a 50:50 consortium that would acquire 19.5% of OSJC Rosneft Oil Rosneft, enter into a five year offtake agreement with Rosneft on market terms and collectively evaluate and potentially enter into additional opportunities related to infrastructure, logistics and global trading.
As at 31 December 2016, only the establishment of the 50:50 consortium and payment of Glencores funding commitment of EUR 300 million were finalised.
The balance of the funding and purchase of the 19.5% interest in Rosneft by the 50:50 consortium and completion of the five year offtake agreement was finalised on 3 January 2017.
In February 2017, Glencore announced that it had acquired the remaining 31% stake in Mutanda Mining Sarl Mutanda, which it did not previously own, and an additional 10.25% stake in Katanga Mining Limited Katanga for a cash outlay of $534 million, including settlement of loan balances.
Following the acquisition, Glencore owns 100% of the shares in Mutanda and approximately 86.3% of the shares in Katanga.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 195 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 33.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2016 2015 Main activity Principal subsidiaries Metals and minerals 1 Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua 50.0 50.0 Copper production Cobar Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Lomas Bayas Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Complejo Metalurgico Altonorte S. A. Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Minera Altos fide Punitaqui Limitada Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Antapaccay S. A. Peru 100.0 100.0 Copper production Pasar Group Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production Glencore Recycling Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Copper production Mopani Copper Mines plc Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production 2 Katanga Mining Limited Canada 75.3 75.3 Copper Cobalt production Mutanda Group DRC 69.0 69.0 Copper Cobalt production Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper Zinc Lead production Kazzinc Ltd. Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Zhairemsky GOK JSC Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Vasilkovskoye Gold Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Gold production Energia Austral Joint Venture Chile 66.6 66.6 Hydroelectric project African Carbon Producers Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production African Fine Carbon Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Char Technology Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Sphere Minerals Limited Australia 100.0 97.5 Iron Ore production Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Lead production Glencore Manganese Group France Norway 100.0 100.0 Manganese furnace Access World Group formerly Pacorini Group Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Metals warehousing Murrin Murrin Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production 3 Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. New Caledonia 49.0 49.0 Nickel production Glencore Nikkelverk AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Eland Platinum Mines Pty Limited South Africa 74.0 74.0 Platinum production McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Perkoa Group Burkina Faso 90.0 90.0 Zinc production Nordenhammer Zinkhtte GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Asturiana fide Zinc S. A. Spain 100.0 100.0 Zinc production 1 This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to elect the chairman of the Board who has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the four board positions.
Minera Alumbrera Limiteds principal place of business is Argentina.
2 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.
TO and principal place of business is DRC.
3 The Group has control of Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. as a result of the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the financing arrangements underlying the Koniambo project.
196 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2016 2015 Main activity Metals and minerals continued AR Zinc Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Portovesme S. r. L. Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation Pty Limited Namibia 80.1 80.1 Zinc Lead production Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S. A. Peru 97.6 97.6 Zinc Lead production Sinchi Wayra Group Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc Tin production Energy products Cumnock No.
1 Colliery Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Foydell Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Liddell Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Oakbridge Pty Ltd Australia 78.0 78.0 Coal production Glencore Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Jonsha Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Mangoola Coal Operations Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Newlands, Collinsville Australia 100.0 55.0 Coal production Oceanic Coal Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Ravensworth Operations Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production United Collieries Pty Ltd Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production Prodeco Group Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production 4 Optimum Coal Holdings Pty Limited South Africa 0.0 67.6 Coal production 5 Izimbiwa Coal Pty Ltd South Africa 49.9 49.9 Coal production 6 Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 48.7 48.7 Coal production Tavistock Collieries Pty Limited South Africa 100.0 100.0 Coal production Topley Corporation B. V. I.
100.0 100.0 Ship owner Glencore Exploration Cameroon Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production Glencore Exploration EG Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production Petrochad Mangara Limited Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil exploration production Chemoil Energy Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Oil storage and bunkering 7 Agricultural products Glencore Magdeburg GmbH Germany 0.0 100.0 Biofuel production Glencore Biofuels AG Switzerland 0.0 100.0 Biofuel production Moreno Group Argentina 0.0 100.0 Edible oil production Usti Oilseed Group Czech Republic 0.0 100.0 Edible oil production Pannon Vegetable Oil Manufacturing LLC Hungary 0.0 100.0 Edible oil production Zaklady Tluszczowe w Bodaczowie Sp.
z. o. o. Poland 0.0 100.0 Edible oil production Viterra Group incl.
TRT Canada Australia 0.0 100.0 Grain handling Glencane Bioenergia S. A. Brazil 0.0 100.0 Sugar cane ethanol production Correcta Industria e Comercio Ltdo.
Brazil 0.0 100.0 Wheat flour milling 4 Although Glencore held 67.6% of the voting rights in Optimum at 31 December 2015, it was not able to exercise control from August 2015, see note 3.
5 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Izimbiwa previously Shanduka Coal through the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the shareholders agreement.
6 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to control the Board of Directors.
7 In 2016, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in the Agricultural products business segment and retained a 49.9% interest, see note 23.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 197 197 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 33.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENT continued Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2016 2015 Main activity Other operating and finance Xstrata Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Australia Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Operations Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Queensland Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Investment Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Australia Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Finance Bermuda Ltd Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Canada Financial Corp Canada 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Finance Europe S. A. Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Finance Finges Investment B. V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Schweiz AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Group Funding Limited UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Funding LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Canada Corporation Canada 100.0 100.0 Operating 7 Glencore Agriculture B. V. Netherlands 0.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore International AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Commodities Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Energy UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating 8 Principal joint ventures 7 Glencore Agriculture Limited Jersey 49.9 0.0 Agriculture business 9 Clermont Coal Mines Limited Australia 25.1 25.1 Coal production Compania Minera Dona Ines fide Collahuasi Chile 44.0 44.0 Copper production El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania 50.0 44.0 Iron Ore production 10 Principal joint operations Pentland Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration Redrock Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration Togara North Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal exploration Wandoan Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration Bulga Joint Venture Australia 68.3 68.3 Coal production Cumnock Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production Foybrook Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Liddell Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production Ravensworth Underground Mine Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal production Rolleston Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production United Joint Venture Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production 8 The principal joint arrangements are accounted for as joint ventures as the shareholder agreements do not provide the Group the ability to solely control the entities.
9 The Groups effective 25.05% economic interest in Clermont Coal is held through GS Coal Pty Ltd, a 50:50 joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation.
10 Classified as joint operations under IFRS 11, as these joint arrangements are not structured through separate vehicles.
198 198 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2016 2015 Main activity Principal joint operations continued ARM Coal Pty Ltd. South Africa 49.0 49.0 Coal production Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Coal production Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd. Australia 70.0 100.0 Copper production Merafe Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 79.5 79.5 Ferroalloys production Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania 50.0 50.0 Nickel production Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa 37.0 37.0 Platinum production Rhovan Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Vanadium production Principal associates 7 Renova S. A. Argentina 0.0 50.0 Biofuel production Carbones del Cerrejon LLC Colombia 33.3 33.3 Coal production Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia 29.7 29.7 Coal terminal Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd Australia 15.5 15.5 Coal terminal Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa 26.7 26.7 Coal terminal Polymet Mining Corp. Canada 28.4 28.4 Copper production 11 Century Aluminum Company USA 47.5 47.5 Diversified production 7 Terminal fide Gros Ponta da Montanha Barcarena Brazil 0.0 49.9 Grain terminal Noranda Income Fund Canada 25.0 25.0 Zinc production Compania Minera Antamina S. A. Peru 33.8 33.8 Zinc Copper production Recylex S. A. France 32.2 32.2 Zinc Lead production Other investments United Company Rusal plc Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production 12 OAO NK Russneft Russia 25.0 46.0 Oil production Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Peru 7.3 7.3 Zinc production 11 Represents the Groups economic interest in Century, comprising 42.9% 2015: 42.9% voting interest and 4.6% non-voting interest 2015: 4.6%.
Century is publicly traded on NASDAQ under the symbol CENX.
12 Although the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights in Russneft, it is unable to exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions of Russneft.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 199 199 Additional information Additional information 201 Glossary 206 Production by quarter Q4 2015to Q4 2016 213 Resources and reserves 222 Shareholder information IBC Forward looking statements 200 Glencore Annual Report 2016
