Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Shareholder information Financial calendar Managing your shares The Groups Registrar, Equiniti, is responsible for maintaining our register of Final dividend record date 11 November 2016 members.
Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should contact Equiniti directly.
AGM 3 November 2016 Shareholders can sign up for a Shareview portfolio which enables you to: Final dividend payment date 25 November 2016 View information regarding your holding Half year end 31 December 2016 Change your address and bank details online Half year results announcement 23 February 2017 Sell or purchase shares in the Group online Half year dividend payment April 2017 Go to www.
co. uk and click on Shareview Portfolio: find out more & register to sign up for these services.
When completing your details you Next financial year end 1 July 2017 will need your shareholder reference number which is the 11 digit number Full year results announcement 7 September 2017 found on your latest tax voucher or share certificate.
Duplicate documents Annual general meeting If you have more than one registered shareholder account, you will receive The 29th AGM of the Group will be held at the Hilton Newcastle duplicate documentation and split dividend payments.
To request that your Gateshead, Bottle Bank, Gateshead, NE8 2AR on Thursday 3 November accounts be combined, please contact Equiniti.
Details of the business to be considered can be found in the Notice of Meeting which will be available on the Groups corporate Electronic communications website www.
As far as possible, the Group provides shareholder documents via the corporate website.
If you wish to receive future shareholder communications Dividend payments electronically, please sign up via Shareview see Managing your shares The dividend dates are available on our corporate website in the financial section.
By electing to receive shareholder communications electronically calendar.
Following each dividend payment date we will send a tax voucher you will be allowing us to communicate with you securely in a more to your home address.
Please therefore ensure that Equiniti have your environmentally friendly and cost effective way.
correct address and bank details.
We recommend that you arrange for your dividends to be paid directly into Warning to shareholders your bank account: Shareholders are advised to be extremely cautious of any unsolicited advice To avoid the risk of losing a cheque in the post and thereby incurring a from third parties: offers to buy shares at a discount: or offers of free reports replacement fee about the Group.
By law, the Groups register of members is open to public inspection however, we do not endorse any specific share dealing facilities: For faster receipt of your dividend which is paid into your account on the will not pass on shareholder information to any third party: and any requests payment date, rather than waiting for a cheque to be delivered, deposited for access to the register are subject to proper purpose requirements which and cleared ensure that personal data is not used unlawfully.
To select this method of dividend payment, please contact Equiniti directly using the details on page 176.
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 173 Shareholder information continued Shareholder profile by size of holding as at 2 July 2016 % Issued share No.
Shareholder profile by category as at 2 July 2016 Number of No.
It should be noted that many private investors hold their shares through nominee companies, therefore, the percentage of shares held by private holders is likely to be higher than that shown.
Major shareholders In accordance with Rule 5.1.
2R of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Group had received the following notifications of 3% or more over the Groups total voting rights and capital in issue as at 2 July 2016 and 8 September 2016 being the latest practical date prior to the date of this report : Number of Number of shares held as at shares held as at % of voting Nature 8 September % of voting Nature 1 1 2 July 2016 rights held of holding 2016 rights held of holding JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 2,129,423 4.95 Direct 2,129,423 4.95 Direct Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 2,714,875 6.31 Direct 0.02% & 2,714,875 6.31 Direct 0.02% indirect 6.29% & indirect 6.29% Old Mutual plc 2,666,116 6.20 Indirect 6.18 & 121,050 0.28 Indirect 0.28% 2 2 CFD 0.02% & CFD 0.00% Henderson Group plc 2,101,238 4.88 Indirect 1.
These holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment management clients interests within the respective asset management companies.
No further notifications have been received: however, the above holdings may have changed without triggering a further notification.
Contract for Difference 174 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The authorities for the Group to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate Shareholder and control structure nominal amount of 1,433,471, and for the disapplication of pre-emption As at 2 July 2016, the Groups issued share capital comprised a single class of rights on the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate shares referred to as ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 10p each.
As at nominal amount of 215,021, as passed by ordinary and special resolutions this date, there were 46,907,809 ordinary shares in issue, of which 3,902,230 at the 2015 AGM, were not utilised in the financial year or up to the date of were held in treasury.
The Group did not purchase any of its own shares during the year either for These authorities will expire at the 2016 AGM and approval for new cancellation or to hold as treasury shares, and no such shares were authorities will be sought.
In the last three years no shares have been issued purchased between the period end and the date of this report.
However, on a non-preemptive basis, other than those issued under all-employee Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, the Trustees of The Go-Ahead share schemes which are not included for the purposes of this authority.
Group Employee Trust the Trust, purchased 172,964 ordinary shares of 10p each in the Group as part of a planned program of share purchases The authority for the Group to make market purchases of its own ordinary 2015: nil to satisfy awards made under the Groups Long Term Incentive shares, as passed by special resolution at the 2015 AGM, was still in effect at Plan and Deferred Share Bonus Plan awards.
Since the period end and the the end of the financial year and will expire at the 2016 AGM when approval date of this report, the Trust purchased 32,704 ordinary shares of 10p each for a new authority will be sought.
Under the existing authority the maximum aggregate number of shares that The Group is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may can be purchased is 4,300,412.
The authority also limits the maximum result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights number of shares held in treasury to 10% of the issued share capital of the other than: Group and states minimum and maximum prices payable for shares purchased under the authority.
During the financial year this authority was Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and not utilised.
regulations for example, insider trading laws Restrictions pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Each of the Groups rail franchise agreements is subject to change of control criteria that would mean, on a change of control, there would be deemed to Authority whereby certain employees of the Group require the approval of the Group to deal in the Groups securities be an event of default that could potentially terminate the rail franchise.
This is, however, subject to the discretion of the Secretary of State.
Additionally, All shareholders have the same voting rights for each share, regardless of the the Groups sterling bond issue dated 24 March 2010, the revolving credit total number of shares held.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the facility dated 16 July 2014 and the term loan dated 26 August 2016 are Group, every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to subject to change of control clauses that contain certain specified conditions vote shall have one vote except in the circumstance where a proxy has which could lead to a compulsory prepayment of the bond and loan been appointed by more than one member, in which case he or she will respectively.
Transport for London also has powers to prevent the operation have one vote for and one vote against if he or she has been instructed by of London Bus contracts by an existing operator which is the subject of a one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more change of control.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Corporate website Notice of Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either in person or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at the 2016 AGM.
com provides a wealth of All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in information on the Group and its activities.
Information available on the site relation to each resolution are announced as soon as practicable includes half year results and interim management statements, which are not following the AGM and published on the Groups corporate website sent to shareholders, as well as share price data, dividend information and www.
You can register to receive email alerts when the website has been updated with announcements, press releases and other publications.
