Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Notes to the consolidated financial statements The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make Retirement benefit obligations 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not held by judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these judgements and The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the compliance with IFRSs the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are presented estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc ultimately may differ from these estimates.
deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out shareholders equity.
the Group for the year ended 2 July 2016 were authorised for issue by in note 27.
The Group engages Willis Towers Watson, a global the Board of directors on 8 September 2016 and the balance sheet was The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of Joint operations represent the 50% equity interest held by the Group in professional services company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, signed on the Boards behalf by Andrew Allner and Patrick Butcher.
The causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities repsect of On Track Retail Limited, and are currently immaterial.
to support the process of establishing reasonable bases for all of these Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, within the next financial year are in relation to: Joint arrangements estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to the Groups particular domiciled and has its registered office in England and Wales.
The Groups Contract and franchise accounting A joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement of which two or more circumstances.
Management also benchmark these assumptions on a ordinary shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were created at the time of parties have joint control and rights to the net assets.
Joint control is the periodic basis with other professional advisors such as is not under the control of any single shareholder.
privatisation and the relationships between them is governed by a number contractually agreed sharing of control, which exists only when decisions .
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared of contracts between the major participants, the DfT, Network Rail and about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Impairment testing train operating companies.
These contracts include detailed performance sharing control.
Interest in joint arrangements are accounted for as either a adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the consolidated IFRS require management to review for impairment if events or changes in regimes which determine the allocation of financial responsibility relating joint venture or a joint operation in accordance with IFRS 11 Joint financial statements of the Group for the year ended 2 July 2016, and circumstances indicate that carrying values may not be recoverable.
In to the attribution of delays.
The processes for attribution, whilst well Arrangements.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. addition the measurement and impairment reviews of indefinite life understood, require detailed assessment and can take significant time to A joint arrangement is accounted for as a joint venture when the Group, The Group is required to comply with IFRSs under IAS 1 Presentation of intangible assets requires estimation of the net present value of future resolve, particularly in unusual circumstances.
along with other parties have joint control and rights to the net assets of Financial Statements, except in extremely rare circumstances where cashflows including: The Group makes provision for income and costs relating to performance the arrangement.
Joint ventures are equity accounted in accordance with management concludes that compliance would be so misleading that it Growth in profitability and EBITDA adjusted for risk factors appropriate regimes and contractual obligations relating to operating delays caused by IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures revised.
A joint would conflict with the objective to present fairly its financial statements.
to each business Network Rail, or caused by our own operating companies.
This process arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation when the Group, along On that basis, the Group has departed from the requirements of IAS 19 can be based primarily on previous experience of settling such claims, or, with other parties have joint control of the arrangement, rights to the Future growth rates Employee Benefits revised and has accounted for its contractual but not in certain circumstances based on managements view of the most likely assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Joint legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme RPS under the terms Timing of future cash outflows such as capital items required outcome of individual claims.
The Group has significant internal expertise operations are accounted for by including the Groups share of the assets, of its UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of the background and rationale The selection of a suitable discount rate adjusted for risk factors to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and the issues liabilities, income and expense on a line by line basis.
for this departure are provided in note 27. appropriate to the Group relating to delay attribution to enable management to assess the most The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as Revenue recognition No significant impairments arose in the current year.
The considerations probable outcomes, nonetheless significant judgements are required, disclosed in detail on page 106.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the income applied in the review for impairment of goodwill balances are detailed in which can have material impacts on the financial statements.
will flow to the Group and the value can be reliably measured.
Accordingly judgements in these and other areas are made on a 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving continuing basis with regard to amounts due and the recoverable carrying excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
Basis of preparation estimations as detailed above, that the directors have made in the value of related assets and liabilities arising from franchises and other This note details the accounting policies which have been applied in the Rendering of services process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have contracts.
Regular reviews are performed on the expected outcome of Groups consolidated financial statements.
New accounting standards The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the these arrangements, which require assessments and judgements relating and interpretations which require adoption in future years have also transport and rail passenger transport.
financial statements: to the expected level of revenues and costs.
Contract and franchise been listed and our current view of the impact they will have on accounting is specific to the rail business disclosed in the segmental Bus revenue comprises contractual income from Transport for London Exceptional operating costs financial reporting.
TfL in London bus and amounts receivable generated from ticket sales In certain years the Group presents as exceptional operating costs on the The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport Measurement of franchise commitments face of the income statement, material items of revenue or expense as modified by the fair value of financial instruments.
The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation which, because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models of provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also income claims events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the understanding of financial performance.
The determination of whether from other rail franchise operators is set out in note 24.
Significant 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
income allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect of elements of the provisions required are subject to interpretation of items merit treatment as exceptional in a particular year is therefore a As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart from the passenger receipts and other related services such as rolling stock franchise agreements and rolling stock agreements.
The Group has matter of judgement.
requirements of IAS 19 revised so as to present fairly its financial maintenance and commission on tickets sold.
In addition, franchise subsidy significant internal expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the Accounting for the rail pension schemes performance, position and cashflows in respect of its obligation for receipts from the DfT and local Passenger Transport Executives PTEs agreements and to enable management to assess the most probable The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined benefit the RPS.
are treated as revenue, whereas franchise premium payments to the DfT outcomes.
Where appropriate, and specifically in assessing dilapidation pension scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is are recognised in operating costs.
In relation to the GTR franchise, provisions, this process is supported by valuations from professional partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of New standards passenger revenue is collected and remitted to the DfT net of external advisors to support provision levels.
these schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first management charges payable by DfT as revenue.
pension schemes operated by most businesses the RPS is a shared cost time for the financial year ending 2 July 2016: Uninsured claims Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the scheme which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer 40% The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions amendment customers journey or for other services based on the proportion of employee.
The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle services provided.
The attributable share of season ticket or travel card franchise adjustment, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24.
In order to income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle from future contributions, which is that portion of the deficit or surplus assess the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with its over the life of the relevant season ticket or travel card.
projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise is adequately Adoption of these new standards and interpretations had no material required to fund or benefit from.
factored in to the provision for known claims.
impact on the financial position or reported performance of the Group.
Rental income Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and Basis of consolidation subleasing of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is accounted The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
of The Go-Ahead Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 2 July 2016.
Profit and revenue sharing support agreements Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing agreements transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on with the DfT.
An accrual is made within amounts payable to central which control is transferred out of the Group.
The financial statements government for the estimated cost to the Group of the relevant amounts of subsidiaries for use in the consolidation are prepared for the same accrued at the balance sheet date.
Payments are charged to reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent operating costs.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years eliminated in full.
Receipts are shown in revenue.
120 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Exceptional operating costs The Group presents as exceptional operating costs items on the face of Property, plant and equipment the income statement, material items of revenue or expense which, Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their Finance revenue expected useful lives and the lease terms.
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually.
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Depreciation is charged on all addtions to, or disposals of, depreciating assets in the year of purchase or disposal and over its expected useful life Interest-bearing loans and borrowings as follows: Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease Following initial recognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised Freehold buildings Over 50 to 100 years cost using the effective interest method.
Amortisation of liabilities and any Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other fiderecognition of debt are recognised directly in the income statement.
Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are Leases reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment in the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with a corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over Government grants the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.
Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised in operating costs within the income statement over The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income the period necessary to match on a systematic basis to the costs that it is statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to a non-current asset, and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the repayments outstanding.
income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Franchise bid costs Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK.
All income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are treated as an expense in the income statement irrespective of the ultimate Taxation outcome of the bid.
Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is franchise franchise extension.
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Share based payment transactions The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In granting equity-settled options, liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price of the shares of statements.
It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions : conditions not related to On the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in performance or service non-vesting conditions : performance conditions a a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of vesting condition : and service conditions a vesting condition.
the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the or loss: and period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments employees become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary date reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired and differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the directors best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
This includes any that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the Group or and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred the employee are not met.
income tax asset to be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where an equityrecognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of correlation with the underlying transaction.
Otherwise, tax is recognised in cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is the income statement.
122 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 122 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Exceptional operating costs Software to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating The Group presents as exceptional operating costs items on the face of Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised as an units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of Property, plant and equipment the income statement, material items of revenue or expense which, intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and any impairment whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events in value.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement evenly over units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better its expected useful life of three to five years.
represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is value.
monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an Franchise assets Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their operating segment before aggregation.
Finance revenue Where the conditions relating to the award of a franchise require the expected useful lives and the lease terms.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the Group to assume legal responsibility for any pension liability that exists at Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually.
within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
that point in time, the Group recognises a liability representing the fair Depreciation is charged on all addtions to, or disposals of, depreciating disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when value of the related net pension deficit that the Group expects to fund assets in the year of purchase or disposal and over its expected useful life Interest-bearing loans and borrowings determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of during the franchise term.
When a pension deficit exists at the start of the as follows: Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation franchise, a corresponding intangible asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease acquiring the right to operate the franchise.
If a pension surplus exists at Following initial recognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised the start of the franchise, then a corresponding deferred income balance is Freehold buildings Over 50 to 100 years Customer contracts cost using the effective interest method.
Amortisation of liabilities and any recognised, representing a government grant.
The intangible asset or Customer contracts relate to the value attributed to contracts and Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other fidedeferred income balance is amortised through the income statement on a relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The value is recognition of debt are recognised directly in the income statement.
Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years straight-line basis over the period of the franchise.
based on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition.
The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are Leases Customer contracts have a residual value of nil and are amortised over The carrying value of franchise assets is reviewed for impairment at the reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of the unexpired term.
The amortisation expense is taken to the income end of the first financial year following the award of the franchise and in indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment in the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, statement as operating costs.
other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets a corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over Government grants Business combinations and goodwill The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.
Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching Combinations revised using the acquisition method.
The cost of an impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
When the grant relates to an expense acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, of the assets recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets or cashitem, it is recognised in operating costs within the income statement over The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any nongenerating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in the period necessary to match on a systematic basis to the costs that it is statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of nonuse is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to a non-current asset, and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the repayments outstanding.
acquirees identifiable assets, is determined on a transaction by transaction assets or groups of assets, and the estimated future cashflows are income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of administrative expenses.
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Franchise bid costs specific to the asset.
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK.
All liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status are accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its treated as an expense in the income statement irrespective of the ultimate pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation recoverable amount.
Taxation outcome of the bid.
Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Impairment losses including goodwill impairment of continuing Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is franchise franchise extension.
assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in profit and loss.
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Share based payment transactions exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In granting equity-settled options, amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price of the shares of business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value statements.
It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: Goodwill impairment losses are not reversed.
The reinstated amount The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions : conditions not related to of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the On the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net performance or service non-vesting conditions : performance conditions a net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in vesting condition : and service conditions a vesting condition.
in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit prior years.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in assumed in transactions separate from the business combinations, such as The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the or loss: and future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, on a the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant systematic basis less any residual value, over its remaining useful life.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the employees become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting Non-current assets held for sale differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or date reflects the extent to which the period to vesting has expired and Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
separability criterion, are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent the directors best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisitionvest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through date fair value can be measured reliably.
condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
This includes any that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the Group or and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration the employee are not met.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the Inventories liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is Stocks of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower of cost and acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where an equityrecognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete and slow settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of correlation with the underlying transaction.
Otherwise, tax is recognised in After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated moving items.
Cost comprises direct materials and costs incurred in cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is the income statement.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill bringing the items to their present location and condition.
acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated value represents the estimated selling price less costs of sale.
122 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the Cash and cash equivalents asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
and in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow statement, circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial assets and derivatives All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair the fair value measurement as a whole: value by reference to market values for similar instruments, and Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for subsequently re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
identical assets or liabilities Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
Financial Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or indirectly observable loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on immediately in the income statement.
When the cashflow hedge results in a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then at the time that between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive whole at the end of each reporting period.
income are included in the initial measurement of that non-financial asset At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or reliability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income assessed as per the Groups accounting policies.
For this analysis, the statement in the period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income relevant documents.
The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset and Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no is reasonable.
longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative When required, the Group presents the valuation results to the audit gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive committee.
This includes a discussion of the major assumptions used in income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which the valuations.
point it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined amount of the related non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the explained above.
Provisions Fair value measurement Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or The Group measures financial instruments derivatives and non-financial constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an assets at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 23. estimate of the amount can be made.
If the effect is material, expected Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to future cashflows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The fair value measurement is based on the Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when takes place either: recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is In the principal market for the asset or liability, or presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
Where In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the for the asset or liability discount is recognised as a finance cost.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to Uninsured liabilities the Group.
The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties.
These provide that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits for total claims within the assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
124 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 124 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined Cash and cash equivalents asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of settlements that benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to and in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three date but that have not yet been reported to the Group by the insurer.
Fair value is based on market price information and in The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow statement, the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined Treasury shares value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, are deducted use of unobservable inputs.
of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated costs are also Financial assets and derivatives Group recognises  costs.
When a settlement recognised in shareholders funds as a separate reserve for own shares.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the shares is transferred from the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves.
described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the the fair value measurement as a whole: value by reference to market values for similar instruments, and Retirement benefits obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for subsequently re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both defined assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the income identical assets or liabilities benefit and defined contribution.
The costs of these are recognised in statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
Financial Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input the income statement.
As discussed below, the Group has invoked the assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are charged that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or provisions of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and has departed in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or to operating costs in the income statement as they fall due.
indirectly observable from the requirements of IAS 19 revised in respect of the Rail Pension loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Rail schemes Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined benefit significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable Bus schemes effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is partitioned The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit immediately in the income statement.
When the cashflow hedge results in a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then at the time that between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and determine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive whole at the end of each reporting period.
A liability or asset is recognised in line with other defined actuarial advice.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to income are included in the initial measurement of that non-financial asset At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise the net defined benefit liability or asset.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or readjustment so that the net liability or asset including as appropriate the liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of assessed as per the Groups accounting policies.
For this analysis, the impact of any minimum funding requirements represents the deficit or statement in the period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
the asset ceiling excluding net interest and the return on plan assets Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing surplus that the Group expects to fund or benefit from during the excluding net interest are recognised in the statement of comprehensive For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other franchise term.
This represents a departure from IAS 19 revised so as to losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income income in the period in which they occur.
present fairly the Groups financial performance, position and cashflow in statement as they arise.
respect of its obligations for the RPS.
Please refer to note 27 Retirement The current service cost is recognised in the income statement within The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset and benefit obligations for further details.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, operating costs.
The net interest expense or income is recognised in liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no the income statement within finance costs.
At that point in time, any cumulative When required, the Group presents the valuation results to the audit New standards and interpretations not applied gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive committee.
This includes a discussion of the major assumptions used in The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which the valuations.
these financial statements: point it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined amount of the related non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged Effective date classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs periods beginning on or after transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle 1 January 2016 explained above.
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 Provisions IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Disclosure Initiative amendment 1 January 2016 Fair value measurement Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture Bearer Plants amendment 1 January 2016 The Group measures financial instruments derivatives and non-financial constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets Clarification of Acceptable Methods of assets at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable Depreciation and Amortisation amendment 1 January 2016 instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 23. estimate of the amount can be made.
If the effect is material, expected IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations amendment 1 January 2016 Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to future cashflows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, IFRS 10 Consolidated Fianancial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Investments transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
in Associates Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception amendment 1 January 2016 the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements amendment 1 January 2016 presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when IAS 12 Income Taxes Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets and Assets for Unreaslised Losses amendment 1 January 2017 takes place either: recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 In the principal market for the asset or liability, or presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
Where IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 for the asset or liability discount is recognised as a finance cost.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to IFRS 16 Leases will have a significant impact on the Groups balance sheet and income statement as operating leases are reclassified as balance sheet Uninsured liabilities the Group.
Work will commence during 2016 17 to quantify the impact ahead of implementing the standard in the year ended June 2020.
These provide The Group does not expect IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition to have a material impact on the Group when implemented in the year ended June 2019 that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits for total claims within the on the basis that in both our rail and bus divisions our contracted customers are easily recognised, performance obligations are clear and transaction assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the Group to prices are even over the period to which they relate and are time apportioned.
settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The directors do not anticipate adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
124 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segmental analysis The Groups businesses are managed on a divisional basis.
Selected financial data is presented on this basis below.
For management purposes, the Group is now organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail.
Operating segments within those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and similar nature of their products and services, as follows: The regional bus division comprises bus operations outside London.
The London bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of TfL and also rail replacement and other contracted services in London.
The rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises four rail franchises: Southern, Southeastern, London Midland and GTR.
The division is aggregated for the purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 as each operating company has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise arrangements with DfT.
Each company targets similar margins, has similar economic risks and is viewed and reacted to as one segment by the chief operating decision maker, considered to be the Group Chief Executive.
The registered office of Keolis UK Limited is in England and Wales.
The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and liabilities and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss excluding amortisation of intangible assets, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the year ended 2 July 2016 and the year ended 27 June 2015.
Year ended 2 July 2016 Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Segment revenue 403.3 507.2 910.5 2,511.1 3,421.6 Inter-segment revenue 27.6 19.6 47.2 13.1 60.3 Group revenue 375.7 487.6 863.3 2,498.0 3,361.3 Operating costs excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs 326.0 444.0 770.0 2,470.9 3,240.9 Segment profit Group operating profit before amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs 49.7 43.6 93.3 27.1 120.4 Intangible amortisation 1.2 0.9 2.1 0.9 3.0 Group operating profit 48.5 42.7 91.2 26.2 117.4 Net finance costs 17.6 Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 99.8 Tax expense 18.5 Profit for the year 81.3 Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Other segment information Capital expenditure: Additions 57.4 38.7 96.1 17.8 113.9 Acquisitions 1.2 1.2 1.2 Intangible assets 1.0 0.1 1.1 1.1 Depreciation 29.0 18.8 47.8 7.4 55.2 At 2 July 2016, there were non-current assets included within London bus of 1.2m 2015: nil relating to operations in Singapore.
The operations in Singapore will commence trading in September 2016 and the revenue generated during the year to 2 July 2016 was nil 2015: nil.
For the year ending 1 July 2017 onwards, operations in Singapore will be disclosed as a separate reportable segment.
We have two major customers which individually contribute more than 10% of the Group revenue, one of which contributes 1,076.6m 2015: 363.0m and the other contributes 481.5m 2015: 456.5m.
126 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 126 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segmental analysis Year ended 27 June 2015 Regional London Total Total The Groups businesses are managed on a divisional basis.
bus bus bus Rail operations For management purposes, the Group is now organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail.
Operating segments within m m m m m those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and similar nature of their products and services, as follows: Segment revenue 384.8 469.7 854.5 2,414.0 3,268.5 The regional bus division comprises bus operations outside London.
Inter-segment revenue 24.9 11.8 36.7 16.6 53.3 Group revenue 359.9 457.9 817.8 2,397.4 3,215.2 The London bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of TfL and also rail replacement and other contracted services in London.
Operating costs excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and The rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises four rail exceptional operating costs 313.2 415.6 728.8 2,371.7 3,100.5 franchises: Southern, Southeastern, London Midland and GTR.
The division is aggregated for the purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 as each Segment profit Group operating profit before amortisation, operating company has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise arrangements with goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs 46.7 42.3 89.0 25.7 114.7 DfT.
Intangible amortisation 1.6 1.8 3.4 0.8 4.2 Goodwill impairment 4.9 4.9 4.9 The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and Exceptional operating costs 8.8 8.8 liabilities and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented.
Group operating profit 40.2 40.5 80.7 16.1 96.8 Net finance costs 18.1 Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 78.7 The following tables present information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the year ended 2 July 2016 and the year ended 27 June 2015.
Tax expense 19.4 Year ended 2 July 2016 Profit for the year 59.3 Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Regional London Total Total Segment revenue 403.3 507.2 910.5 2,511.1 3,421.6 bus bus bus Rail operations Inter-segment revenue 27.6 19.6 47.2 13.1 60.3 m m m m m Group revenue 375.7 487.6 863.3 2,498.0 3,361.3 Other segment information Operating costs excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and Capital expenditure: exceptional operating costs 326.0 444.0 770.0 2,470.9 3,240.9 Additions 28.0 8.1 36.1 6.2 42.3 Segment profit Group operating profit before amortisation, Acquisitions and new rail franchises 0.4 0.4 6.9 7.3 goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs 49.7 43.6 93.3 27.1 120.4 Intangible assets 1.1 0.1 1.2 4.9 6.1 Intangible amortisation 1.2 0.9 2.1 0.9 3.0 Depreciation 27.5 18.2 45.7 24.8 70.5 Group operating profit 48.5 42.7 91.2 26.2 117.4 Net finance costs 17.6 4.
Group revenue This note provides an analysis of Group revenue.
For accounting policies see Revenue recognition, Rendering of services, Rental income and Profit Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 99.8 and revenue sharing support agreements in note 2.
Tax expense 18.5 2016 2015 Profit for the year 81.3 m m Rendering of services 3,498.5 3,208.6 Regional London Total Total Rental income 22.8 10.0 bus bus bus Rail operations GTR franchise revenue adjustment 276.0 120.9 m m m m m Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support 116.0 117.5 Other segment information Group revenue 3,361.3 3,215.2 Capital expenditure: Finance revenue 3.2 2.4 Additions 57.4 38.7 96.1 17.8 113.9 Total Group revenue 3,364.5 3,217.6 Acquisitions 1.2 1.2 1.2 Intangible assets 1.0 0.1 1.1 1.1 Depreciation 29.0 18.8 47.8 7.4 55.2 At 2 July 2016, there were non-current assets included within London bus of 1.2m 2015: nil relating to operations in Singapore.
126 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 127 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Operating costs excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating items Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs.
For accounting policies see Profit and revenue sharing support agreements, Property, plant and equipment, Government grants and Franchise bid costs in note 2.
2016 2015 m m Employee costs note 6 1,215.5 1,079.6 Operating lease payments bus vehicles 15.4 16.6 non-rail properties 3.3 2.6 other non-rail 0.1 rail rolling stock 427.7 410.9 other rail 112.2 88.0 1 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges 558.6 518.2 rail access charges 519.2 489.9 2 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense 1,077.8 1,008.1 DfT Franchise agreement payments 38.2 228.6 Other operating income 17.5 24.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 54.9 69.4 leased assets 0.3 1.1 Total depreciation expense 55.2 70.5 Auditors remuneration audit of parent financial statements Deloitte EY 0.1 0.1 audit of subsidiary financial statements Deloitte EY 0.5 0.4 audit of subsidiary financial statements Grant Thornton Total audit fees 0.6 0.5 taxation compliance services 0.1 0.1 taxation advisory services other non-audit 0.1 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 Total auditors remuneration 0.8 0.7 Trade receivables not recovered 0.8 0.3 Energy costs bus fuel 116.8 118.4 rail diesel fuel 9.8 9.6 rail electricity EC4T 122.3 109.5 cost of site energy 15.3 15.2 Total energy costs 264.2 252.7 Government grants 4.1 8.0 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.4 Profit on sale of assets held for sale 0.7 Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 5.7 10.7 DfT profit share 43.7 24.0 Other operating costs 560.6 458.5 Total operating costs excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs 3,240.9 3,100.5 1 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges are made up of minimum lease payments of 574.2m 2015: 531.7m, net of sublease payments of 15.6m 2015: 13.5m relating to other rail leases.
2 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense are made up of minimum lease payments of 1,093.4m 2015: 1,021.6m, net of sublease payments of 15.6m 2015: 13.5m relating to other rail leases.
During the year, 1.4m 2015: 1.5m was also paid to other Big 4 accounting firms for a variety of services.
The Group received net receipts from Network Rail during the year of 38.1m 2015: 88.0m.
128 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 128 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Operating costs excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating items 6.
Employee costs Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs.
For accounting policies see Profit and revenue sharing support This note shows total employment costs, inclusive of share based payment charges.
We have a number of share plans used to award shares to directors agreements, Property, plant and equipment, Government grants and Franchise bid costs in note 2. and employees.
A charge is recognised over the vesting period in the consolidated income statement, based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant.
The note also shows the average number of people employed by the Group during the year.
For accounting policies see Share based payment 2016 2015 m m transactions in note 2.
Employee costs note 6 1,215.5 1,079.6 2016 2015 m m Operating lease payments Wages and salaries 1,017.6 915.4 bus vehicles 15.4 16.6 Social security costs 92.2 80.5 non-rail properties 3.3 2.6 Other pension costs 103.5 82.1 other non-rail 0.1 Share based payments charge 2.2 1.6 rail rolling stock 427.7 410.9 1,215.5 1,079.6 other rail 112.2 88.0 1 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges 558.6 518.2 The average monthly number of employees during the year, including directors, was: rail access charges 519.2 489.9 2 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense 1,077.8 1,008.1 2016 2015 Administration and supervision 3,007 2,964 DfT Franchise agreement payments 38.2 228.6 Maintenance and engineering 2,597 2,651 Other operating income 17.5 24.8 Operations 21,962 20,545 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 27,566 26,160 owned assets 54.9 69.4 leased assets 0.3 1.1 The information required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations Total depreciation expense 55.2 70.5 2013 is provided in the directors remuneration report.
Auditors remuneration Sharesave scheme audit of parent financial statements Deloitte EY 0.1 0.1 Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2013 AGM for the introduction of a new HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings-Related Share Option audit of subsidiary financial statements Deloitte EY 0.5 0.4 scheme, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the Sharesave scheme for employees of the Group and its audit of subsidiary financial statements Grant Thornton operating companies.
Total audit fees 0.6 0.5 The Sharesave scheme is open to all full time and part-time employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months of taxation compliance services 0.1 0.1 continuous service with a Go-Ahead Group company at the date they are invited to participate in a scheme launch.
To take part, qualifying employees taxation advisory services have to enter into a savings contract for a period of three years under which they agree to save a monthly amount, from a minimum of 5 to a other non-audit 0.1 0.1 maximum not exceeding 500 specified by the Group at the time of invitation.
For the February 2016 launch, the maximum monthly savings limit set by the Group was 50.
At the end of the savings period, employees can buy shares at a 20% discount of the market price set at the date of invitation or Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 take their full savings back.
Total auditors remuneration 0.8 0.7 The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms Trade receivables not recovered 0.8 0.3 and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The key assumptions input into the model are future share price volatility, future dividend yield, Energy costs future risk free interest rate, forfeiture rate and option life.
bus fuel 116.8 118.4 There are savings-related options at 2 July 2016 as follows: rail diesel fuel 9.8 9.6 Scheme maturity 1 May 2019 1 May 2017 rail electricity EC4T 122.3 109.5 Option price 19.11 17.34 cost of site energy 15.3 15.2 No.
of options exercised during the year 1,667 Government grants 4.1 8.0 No.
of options exercisable at 2 July 2016 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.4 Profit on sale of assets held for sale 0.7 The expense recognised for the scheme during the year to 2 July 2016 was 0.4m 2015: 0.3m.
Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 5.7 10.7 The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of share options for the Sharesave scheme: DfT profit share 43.7 24.0 2016 2015 Other operating costs 560.6 458.5 2016 WAEP 2015 WAEP No.
Total operating costs excluding amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs 3,240.9 3,100.5 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 436,322 17.34 461,575 17.34 1 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges are made up of minimum lease payments of 574.2m 2015: 531.7m, net of Granted during the year 370,251 19.11 sublease payments of 15.6m 2015: 13.5m relating to other rail leases.
Forfeited during the year 40,002 17.46 25,089 17.34 2 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense are made up of minimum lease payments of 1,093.4m 2015: 1,021.6m, net of sublease payments of 15.6m 2015: 13.5m relating to other rail leases.
Exercised during the year 1,667 17.34 164 17.34 Outstanding at the end of the year 764,904 18.19 436,322 17.34 During the year, 1.4m 2015: 1.5m was also paid to other Big 4 accounting firms for a variety of services.
128 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 129 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employee costs continued The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was 17.34 2015: 17.34.
At the year end, no options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was 18.19 2015: 17.34.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.79 years 2015: 1.83 years.
Long Term Incentive Plans The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 LTIP.
The LTIP provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of three years.
Refer to the directors remuneration report for further details of the LTIP.
The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 2 July 2016 was 0.5m 2015: 0.4m.
The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were: 2016 2015 % per annum % per annum The Go-Ahead Group plc Future share price volatility 21.0 22.0 FTSE Mid-250 index comparator Future share price volatility 20.0 20.0 Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 20.82 2015: 23.49.
The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: 2016 2015 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 181,302 259,145 Granted during the year 32,618 34,996 Forfeited during the year 33,157 36,350 Exercised during the year 96,348 76,489 Outstanding at the end of the year 84,415 181,302 At the year end, 27,415 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was 19.78 2015: 26.98.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.03 years 2015: 0.66 years.
The weighted average share price of options exercised was 25.44 2015: 24.11.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group conditional on the achievement of financial and strategic targets.
The shares are deferred over a three year period.
Refer to the directors remuneration report for further details of the DSBP.
The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 2 July 2016 was 1.3m 2015: 0.9m.
The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions.
Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share price at the date of grant.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 25.97 2015: 25.71.
The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: 2016 2015 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 136,144 56,086 Granted during the year 62,047 87,320 Forfeited during the year 18,341 5,270 Exercised during the year 14,204 1,992 Outstanding at the end of the year 165,646 136,144 At the year end, 30,327 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was 19.78 2015: 26.98.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.18 years 2015: 1.54 years.
The weighted average share price of options exercised was 25.57 2015: 23.96.
Share incentive plans The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP is open to all Group employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months service with a Group company at the date they are invited to participate in the plan.
The SIP permits the Group to make four different types of awards to employees free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares, although the Group has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only.
Under these awards, the Group invites qualifying employees to apply between 10 and 150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing market price.
Under the terms of the scheme, certain tax advantages are available to the Group and employees.
130 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 130 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Exceptional operating items The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was 17.34 2015: 17.34.
This note identifies items of an exceptional nature that have a significant impact on the results of the Group in the period.
For accounting policies see Exceptional operating items in note 2.
2016 2015 The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.79 years 2015: 1.83 years.
m m Long Term Incentive Plans Rail restructuring costs 8.8 The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 LTIP.
The LTIP provides for executive directors and Total exceptional operating costs 8.8 certain other senior employees to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of Year ended 2 July 2016 three years.
There were no exceptional operating items during the year ended 2 July 2016.
Year ended 27 June 2015 The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon Total exceptional operating costs in the year of 8.8m related to rail restructuring costs of the GTR franchise which brings Thameslink and Great which the options were granted.
The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were: Northern together with Southern and Gatwick Express under one management structure.
Finance revenue and costs The Go-Ahead Group plc Finance revenue comprises interest received from bank deposits.
Finance costs mainly arise from interest due on the bond and bank loans.
For Future share price volatility 21.0 22.0 accounting policies see Finance revenue and Interest-bearings loans and borrowings in note 2.
FTSE Mid-250 index comparator 2016 2015 Future share price volatility 20.0 20.0 m m Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0 Bank interest receivable on bank deposits 3.2 2.4 Finance revenue 3.2 2.4 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 20.82 2015: 23.49.
The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 2.0 2.5 2016 2015 Interest payable on 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 11.3 11.2 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 181,302 259,145 Other interest payable 2.2 2.8 Granted during the year 32,618 34,996 Unwinding of discounting on provisions 2.4 1.4 Forfeited during the year 33,157 36,350 Interest payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.8 0.2 Exercised during the year 96,348 76,489 Interest on net pension liability 2.1 2.4 Outstanding at the end of the year 84,415 181,302 Finance costs 20.8 20.5 At the year end, 27,415 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was 19.78 2015: 26.98.
Taxation The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.03 years 2015: 0.66 years.
The weighted average share price of options exercised This note explains how our Group tax charge arises.
The deferred tax section of the note sets out the deferred tax assets and liabilities held across the was 25.44 2015: 24.11.
For accounting policies see Taxation in note 2.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan The Group tax policy can be found at www.
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group a.
Tax recognised in the income statement and in equity conditional on the achievement of financial and strategic targets.
Refer to the directors remuneration 2016 2015 report for further details of the DSBP.
m m The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 2 July 2016 was 1.3m 2015: 0.9m.
Current tax charge 28.5 25.0 The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions.
Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share price at Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.6 0.4 the date of grant.
29.1 24.6 Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences at 20% 2015: 20% 7.1 4.8 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 25.97 2015: 25.71.
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.2 0.4 The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 3.7 2016 2015 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 18.5 19.4 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 136,144 56,086 Granted during the year 62,047 87,320 Forfeited during the year 18,341 5,270 Exercised during the year 14,204 1,992 Outstanding at the end of the year 165,646 136,144 At the year end, 30,327 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was 19.78 2015: 26.98.
130 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 131 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Taxation continued Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss 2016 2015 m m Tax on remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 18.5 4.9 Deferred tax on cashflow hedges 2.1 4.0 Deferred tax on share based payments taken directly to equity 0.5 0.3 Corporation tax on share based payments taken directly to equity 0.3 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 1.2 Tax reported outside of profit or loss 22.0 0.6 b. Reconciliation A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation, at the statutory tax rate, to tax at the Groups effective tax rate for the years ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation 99.8 78.7 At United Kingdom tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.75% 20.0 16.3 Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.6 0.4 Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes 0.8 3.7 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.2 0.4 Effect of the difference between current year corporation tax and deferred tax rates 0.6 0.2 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 3.7 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 18.5 19.4 Effective tax rate 18.5% 24.7% The underlying tax rate is the same as the effective tax rate for the year ended 2 July 2016 at 18.5%.
The underlying tax rate for the year ended 27 June 2015 is 23.2%, as it excludes the impact of the goodwill impairment of 4.9m.
The Group had subsidiary companies in Germany and Singapore during the year but neither generated any operating income.
Costs incurred by these companies were either expensed in the UK without tax relief being claimed or were carried forward as prepayments without tax relief being claimed during the year.
As such the Group was entirely taxable in the UK during the course of the financial year.
c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: 2016 2015 m m Current tax liability at start of year 14.9 10.6 Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 29.1 24.6 Corporation tax taken directly to equity 0.3 Paid in the year 24.8 20.3 Current tax liability at end of year 18.9 14.9 d. Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax liability Accelerated capital allowances 28.4 29.6 Other temporary differences 8.4 1.1 Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 13.3 15.4 Deferred tax liability included in balance sheet 50.1 46.1 Deferred tax asset Retirement benefit obligations 0.5 11.9 Cashflow hedges 2.8 Share based payments 0.9 Deferred tax asset included in balance sheet 4.2 11.9 The deferred tax asset is recognised as it is considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available.
The deferred tax liabilities and assets included in the balance sheet have been calculated using applicable enacted rates.
Of the deferred tax liability, 1.6m 2015: 1.7m is classed as current and 48.5m 2015: 44.4m is classed as non-current.
Of the deferred tax asset, 2.0m 2015: nil is classed as current and 2.2m 2015: 11.9m as non-current.
132 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 132 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Taxation continued The movements in deferred tax in the income statement and other comprehensive income for the years ending 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 are as follows: Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss 2016 2015 Year ended 2 July 2016 m m Recognised Tax on remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 18.5 4.9 in other Recognised At 27 June Recognised in comprehensive Transfer At 2 July Deferred tax on cashflow hedges 2.1 4.0 directly in equity 2015 income statement income categories 2016 Deferred tax on share based payments taken directly to equity 0.5 0.3 m m m m m m Corporation tax on share based payments taken directly to equity 0.3 Accelerated capital allowances 29.6 1.2 28.4 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 1.2 Other temporary differences 1.1 1.0 6.3 8.4 Tax reported outside of profit or loss 22.0 0.6 Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 15.4 2.1 13.3 b. Reconciliation Retirement benefit obligations 11.9 8.3 19.7 0.5 A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation, at the statutory tax rate, to tax at the Groups effective tax rate for the years ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 is as follows: Cashflow hedges 2.1 4.9 2.8 Share based payments 0.5 1.4 0.9 2016 2015 m m 34.2 10.6 21.8 0.5 45.9 Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation 99.8 78.7 Year ended 27 June 2015 Recognised At United Kingdom tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.75% 20.0 16.3 in other Recognised At 28 June Recognised in comprehensive Transfer At 27 June Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.6 0.4 directly in equity 2014 income statement income categories 2015 Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes 0.8 3.7 m m m m m m Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.2 0.4 Accelerated capital allowances 30.6 1.0 29.6 Effect of the difference between current year corporation tax and deferred tax rates 0.6 0.2 Other temporary differences 2.8 2.6 4.0 0.3 1.1 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 3.7 Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed Tax reported in consolidated income statement 18.5 19.4 cost on conversion to IFRS 17.3 1.9 15.4 Effective tax rate 18.5% 24.7% Retirement benefit obligations 11.9 4.9 4.9 11.9 38.8 5.2 0.9 0.3 34.2 The underlying tax rate is the same as the effective tax rate for the year ended 2 July 2016 at 18.5%.
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: The underlying tax rate for the year ended 27 June 2015 is 23.2%, as it excludes the impact of the goodwill impairment of 4.9m.
2016 2015 The Group had subsidiary companies in Germany and Singapore during the year but neither generated any operating income.
Costs incurred by these m m companies were either expensed in the UK without tax relief being claimed or were carried forward as prepayments without tax relief being claimed Accelerated capital allowances 0.2 1.5 during the year.
Revaluation 0.6 0.9 c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities Retirement benefit obligations 8.3 4.9 A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: Temporary differences arising on pension spreading 2.4 2.9 2016 2015 Other temporary differences 0.8 0.4 m m 7.1 4.8 Current tax liability at start of year 14.9 10.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 0.4 Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 29.1 24.6 Adjustments in respect of opening deferred tax rate reduction 3.7 Corporation tax taken directly to equity 0.3 Deferred tax expense 10.6 5.2 Paid in the year 24.8 20.3 The standard rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015.
A rate of 20% therefore applies to the current tax charge arising Current tax liability at end of year 18.9 14.9 during the year ended 2 July 2016. d. Deferred tax In addition to the change in rate of corporation tax identified above, further reductions in the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020 The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: were substantively enacted prior to the balance sheet date and have been applied to the Groups deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date.
2016 2015 An announcement in the 2016 Budget also noted the intention to amend the rate from 1 April 2020 to 17%.
If the reduction to 17% had been enacted m m at the balance sheet date, the Groups deferred tax liability would have reduced by 2.4m to 47.7m, and the deferred tax asset would have remained Deferred tax liability the same at 4.2m.
Accelerated capital allowances 28.4 29.6 Other temporary differences 8.4 1.1 10.
Earnings per share Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 13.3 15.4 Basic earnings per share is the amount of profit generated for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
This note also includes adjusted earnings per share, which shows a normalised earnings per share Deferred tax liability included in balance sheet 50.1 46.1 following elimination of the impact of intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs, and the incremental effect Deferred tax asset of IAS 19 revised.
Retirement benefit obligations 0.5 11.9 Basic and diluted earnings per share Cashflow hedges 2.8 2016 2015 Share based payments 0.9 m m Deferred tax asset included in balance sheet 4.2 11.9 Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 69.7 52.2 Consisting of: The deferred tax asset is recognised as it is considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available.
Adjusted earnings on continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent 94.7 78.0 The deferred tax liabilities and assets included in the balance sheet have been calculated using applicable enacted rates.
Amortisation and goodwill impairment after taxation and non-controlling interests 2.1 8.0 Of the deferred tax liability, 1.6m 2015: 1.7m is classed as current and 48.5m 2015: 44.4m is classed as non-current.
Of the deferred tax asset, Exceptional operating costs after taxation and non-controlling interests 4.5 2.0m 2015: nil is classed as current and 2.2m 2015: 11.9m as non-current.
IAS 19 revised after taxation and non-controlling interests 22.9 13.3 Basic and diluted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 69.7 52.2 132 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 133 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Earnings per share continued 2016 2015 Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 000 42,951 42,916 Dilutive potential share options 000 247 754 Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 000 43,198 43,670 Earnings per share: Basic earnings per share pence per share 162.3 121.6 Diluted earnings per share 161.4 119.5 Adjusted basic earnings per share 220.5 181.8 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 219.3 178.6 The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP arrangements.
No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 2 July 2016 to 8 September 2016.
The effect of taxation and non-controlling interests on intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and the incremental effect of IAS 19 revised is shown below for each of the periods.
Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and the incremental effect of IAS 19 revised in order to show a normalised earnings per share, reflecting the underlying performance of the business.
Adjusted earnings were 94.7m in the period 2015: 78.0m resulting in adjusted earnings per share of 220.5p 2015: 181.8p.
This is analysed as follows: Year ended 2 July 2016 Amortisation and Profit for goodwill Exceptional Adjusted profit the year impairment operating costs IAS 19 revised for the year m m m m m Profit before taxation 99.8 3.0 39.1 141.9 Less: Taxation 18.5 0.6 7.8 26.9 Less: Non-controlling interests 11.6 0.3 8.4 20.3 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 69.7 2.1 22.9 94.7 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence per share 220.5 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence per share 219.3 Year ended 27 June 2015 Amortisation and Profit for goodwill Exceptional Adjusted profit the year impairment operating costs IAS 19 revised for the year m m m m m Profit before taxation 78.7 9.1 8.8 22.3 118.9 Less: Taxation 19.4 0.9 1.8 4.6 26.7 Less: Non-controlling interests 7.1 0.2 2.5 4.4 14.2 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 8.0 4.5 13.3 78.0 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence per share 181.8 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence per share 178.6 11.
Dividends paid and proposed Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November.
2016 2015 m m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share 2014: 59.0p 27.2 25.3 Interim dividend for 2016: 28.33p per share 2015: 26.6p 12.2 11.4 39.4 36.7 2016 2015 m m Proposed for approval at the AGM not recognised as a liability as at 2 July 2016 Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2016: 67.52p per share 2015: 63.4p 29.0 27.2 134 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 134 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Property, plant and equipment 2016 2015 The Group holds significant investments in land and buildings, bus vehicles and plant and equipment, which form our tangible assets.
All assets excluding freehold land are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
For accounting policies see Property, plant and equipment in note 2.
Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 000 42,951 42,916 Long term Short term Dilutive potential share options 000 247 754 Freehold land leasehold land leasehold land Plant and Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 000 43,198 43,670 and buildings and properties and properties Bus vehicles equipment Total m m m m m m Earnings per share: Cost: Basic earnings per share pence per share 162.3 121.6 At 28 June 2014 183.7 0.4 14.2 520.5 180.2 899.0 Diluted earnings per share 161.4 119.5 Additions 1.8 31.2 9.3 42.3 Adjusted basic earnings per share 220.5 181.8 Acquisitions and new rail franchises 0.4 6.9 7.3 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 219.3 178.6 Disposals 10.9 6.8 17.7 Transfer of assets held for resale 0.2 0.2 The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP At 27 June 2015 185.7 0.4 14.2 541.2 189.6 931.1 arrangements.
Additions 13.4 0.5 78.4 21.6 113.9 No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 2 July 2016 to 8 September 2016.
Acquisitions 1.2 1.2 The effect of taxation and non-controlling interests on intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and the Disposals 0.2 45.9 2.0 48.1 incremental effect of IAS 19 revised is shown below for each of the periods.
Transfer categories 2.1 2.1 Adjusted earnings per share At 2 July 2016 198.9 0.4 14.7 572.8 211.3 998.1 Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of intangible asset amortisation, goodwill impairment, exceptional operating costs and the incremental effect of IAS 19 revised in order to show a normalised earnings per share, reflecting the underlying performance of the business.
Depreciation and impairment: Adjusted earnings were 94.7m in the period 2015: 78.0m resulting in adjusted earnings per share of 220.5p 2015: 181.8p.
At 28 June 2014 19.6 6.0 267.7 147.1 440.4 Charge for the year 9.2 1.4 39.9 20.0 70.5 This is analysed as follows: Disposals 10.6 6.6 17.2 Year ended 2 July 2016 At 27 June 2015 28.8 7.4 297.0 160.5 493.7 Amortisation and Charge for the year 3.3 1.4 42.3 8.2 55.2 Profit for goodwill Exceptional Adjusted profit the year impairment operating costs IAS 19 revised for the year Disposals 43.5 1.6 45.1 m m m m m Transfer categories 0.8 0.8 Profit before taxation 99.8 3.0 39.1 141.9 At 2 July 2016 32.1 8.8 295.0 167.9 503.8 Less: Taxation 18.5 0.6 7.8 26.9 Less: Non-controlling interests 11.6 0.3 8.4 20.3 Net book value: Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 69.7 2.1 22.9 94.7 At 2 July 2016 166.8 0.4 5.9 277.8 43.4 494.3 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence per share 220.5 At 27 June 2015 156.9 0.4 6.8 244.2 29.1 437.4 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence per share 219.3 At 28 June 2014 164.1 0.4 8.2 252.8 33.1 458.6 Year ended 27 June 2015 The net book value of leased assets and assets acquired under hire purchase contracts is: Amortisation and Profit for goodwill Exceptional Adjusted profit 2016 2015 the year impairment operating costs IAS 19 revised for the year m m m m m m m Bus vehicles 2.7 1.3 Profit before taxation 78.7 9.1 8.8 22.3 118.9 Plant and equipment 0.1 Less: Taxation 19.4 0.9 1.8 4.6 26.7 2.7 1.4 Less: Non-controlling interests 7.1 0.2 2.5 4.4 14.2 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 52.2 8.0 4.5 13.3 78.0 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence per share 181.8 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence per share 178.6 11.
2016 2015 m m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2015: 63.4p per share 2014: 59.0p 27.2 25.3 Interim dividend for 2016: 28.33p per share 2015: 26.6p 12.2 11.4 39.4 36.7 2016 2015 m m Proposed for approval at the AGM not recognised as a liability as at 2 July 2016 Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2016: 67.52p per share 2015: 63.4p 29.0 27.2 134 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 135 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Intangible assets The consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, software, franchise bid costs and customer contracts.
Goodwill, which arises when the Group acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily due to the synergies the Group expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Software is amortised over its expected useful life.
Franchise bid costs are amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
Customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contract.
For further details see Software, Franchise bid costs, Franchise assets, Business combinations and goodwill, Impairment of assets and Customer contracts in note 2.
Franchise bid costs A part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
Rail franchise asset This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise assets relating to the Southeastern rail franchise.
The intangible asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the original life of the franchise.
Customer contracts This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The value is calculated based on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period.
Goodwill Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Go South Coast 28.6 28.6 Brighton & Hove 12.7 12.7 Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0 Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5 Go North East 2.7 2.7 Konectbus 3.6 3.6 Thames Travel 2.7 2.7 Carousel 2.1 2.1 75.9 75.9 136 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 136 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Intangible assets The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using cashflow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have then been extended over an The consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, software, franchise bid costs and customer contracts.
The directors feel that the extended period is justified because of the long term stability of the relevant income streams.
Growth has Goodwill, which arises when the Group acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily due to the synergies been extrapolated forward from the end of the three year forecasts over a total period of ten years plus a terminal value using a growth rate of 3.0% the Group expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Franchise which reflects the directors view of long term growth rates in each business, and the long term recurrent nature of the businesses.
bid costs are amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
For further details see Software, Franchise bid costs, Franchise assets, Business combinations and goodwill, Impairment of assets and Customer contracts The Groups weighted average cost of capital has been initially calculated as 5.4% 2015: 8.8%.
Given the current low weighted average cost of capital in note 2. the calculation of value in use has been initially derived based on the internal rate of return that the Group uses to appraise investments, currently 8.0%, Franchise Rail franchise Customer to identify any goodwill balances requiring further consideration and review.
The economic conditions that the cash-generating units operate in are Goodwill Software costs bid costs asset contracts Total considered similar enough, primarily being UK based, to use the same discount rate.
m m m m m m The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the growth rate Cost: used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period.
The operating cashflows are based on assumptions of revenue, employee costs and general At 28 June 2014 80.8 17.5 9.2 16.7 13.2 137.4 overheads.
These assumptions are influenced by several internal and external factors.
The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with Additions 3.8 2.3 6.1 the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
Disposals 0.7 1.3 2.0 A 0.5% increase in WACC or revenue growth falling by 1.0% are considered the most likely sensitivities that could impact recoverable amounts.
These At 27 June 2015 80.8 20.6 11.5 16.7 11.9 141.5 sensitivities would not cause the carrying value of any of the businesses to exceed their recoverable amount.
Additions 0.7 0.7 14. Business combinations Acquisitions 0.4 0.4 This note details acquisition transactions carried out in the current and prior periods.
For accounting policies see Business combinations and goodwill At 2 July 2016 80.8 21.3 11.5 16.7 12.3 142.6 and Customer contracts in note 2.
Amortisation and impairment: Year ended 2 July 2016 At 28 June 2014 14.8 7.9 16.7 10.3 49.7 On 13 October 2015, Go South Coast Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired certain tendered contracts, commercial operations Charge for the year 1.7 0.8 1.7 4.2 and 13 buses from Excelsior Coaches Limited and Excelsior Transport Limited for a cash consideration of 0.5m.
Impairment 4.9 4.9 Net assets at date of acquisition: Disposals 0.7 1.3 2.0 Total acquisitions Fair value to At 27 June 2015 4.9 15.8 8.7 16.7 10.7 56.8 Group Charge for the year 1.5 0.6 0.9 3.0 m At 2 July 2016 4.9 17.3 9.3 16.7 11.6 59.8 Property, plant and equipment 1.2 Intangible assets customer contracts 0.4 Net book value: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1.1 At 2 July 2016 75.9 4.0 2.2 0.7 82.8 Net assets 0.5 At 27 June 2015 75.9 4.8 2.8 1.2 84.7 At 28 June 2014 80.8 2.7 1.3 2.9 87.7 Cash 0.5 Total consideration 0.5 Software costs Software costs capitalised exclude software that is integral to the related hardware.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings comprise finance leases and hire purchase commitments.
Franchise bid costs Acquisition costs of less than 0.1m have been expensed through operating costs.
A part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
Directly attributable, incremental From the date of acquisition in the period, the acquisition recorded an operating profit of 0.1m and revenue of 2.1m.
Had the acquisition been costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the completed on the first day of the financial period, the impact on the Groups operating profit would have been 0.2m and the impact on revenue would life of the franchise franchise extension.
Rail franchise asset Year ended 27 June 2015 This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise On 8 December 2014, Plymouth Citybus Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired certain tendered contracts, commercial operations assets relating to the Southeastern rail franchise.
and nine buses from Western Greyhound Limited for a cash consideration of 0.4m.
Customer contracts Net assets at date of acquisition: This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The value is calculated based Total acquisitions on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period.
Fair value to Group Goodwill m Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business Property, plant and equipment 0.4 operations.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: Intangible assets customer contracts 2016 2015 0.4 m m Go South Coast 28.6 28.6 Cash 0.4 Brighton & Hove 12.7 12.7 Total consideration 0.4 Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0 Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5 Acquisition costs of less than 0.1m have been expensed through operating costs.
Go North East 2.7 2.7 From the date of acquisition in the year ended 27 June 2015, the acquisition recorded an operating profit of nil and revenue of 0.9m.
Had the Konectbus 3.6 3.6 acquisition been completed on the first day of the financial period, the impact on the Groups operating profit would have been nil and the impact on Thames Travel 2.7 2.7 revenue would have been 1.5m.
Carousel 2.1 2.1 75.9 75.9 136 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 137 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Assets classified as held for sale This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale.
The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally through a sale rather than through continuing use.
For accounting policies see Non-current assets held for sale in note 2.
At 2 July 2016, assets held for sale, with a carrying value of 0.8m, related to property, plant and equipment available for sale, and are included in the regional bus segment.
During the year ended 2 July 2016, assets held for sale were sold for a profit of 0.7m, which is included within operating costs in the income statement.
At 27 June 2015, assets held for sale had a carrying value of 6.0m, consisting of 2.5m of property, plant and equipment available for sale and 3.5m of bus vehicles awaiting refinancing onto operating leases.
Inventories Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products.
For accounting policies see Inventories in note 2.
2016 2015 m m Raw materials and consumables 18.3 17.9 The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in advance, amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable.
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts.
2016 2015 m m Current Trade receivables 178.1 102.0 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 1.7 1.1 Trade receivables net 176.4 100.9 Other receivables 32.7 66.5 Prepayments 48.5 18.8 Accrued income 45.4 23.0 Receivable from central government 34.0 50.9 337.0 260.1 2016 2015 m m Non-current Other receivables 1.6 0.8 As at 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Past due but not Neither past due impaired more Total nor impaired Less than 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days than 120 days m m m m m m m 2016 176.4 166.5 3.0 3.4 2.2 0.5 0.8 2015 100.9 88.0 11.2 0.8 0.6 0.3 Trade receivables at nominal value of 1.7m 2015: 1.1m were impaired and fully provided for.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: Total m At 27 June 2015 1.1 Charge for the year 1.1 Utilised 0.2 Unused amounts reversed 0.3 At 2 July 2016 1.7 As at 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of impaired and fully provided for trade receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 m m 60-90 days 90-120 days More than 120 days 1.7 1.1 1.7 1.1 138 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 138 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Assets classified as held for sale 18.
Cash and cash equivalents This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale.
The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally The majority of the Groups cash is held in bank deposits which have a maturity of three months or less to comply with DfT short term liquidity through a sale rather than through continuing use.
For accounting policies see Non-current assets held for sale in note 2. requirements.
For accounting policies see Cash and cash equivalents in note 2.
2016 2015 At 2 July 2016, assets held for sale, with a carrying value of 0.8m, related to property, plant and equipment available for sale, and are included in the m m regional bus segment.
Cash at bank and in hand 82.1 145.5 During the year ended 2 July 2016, assets held for sale were sold for a profit of 0.7m, which is included within operating costs in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents 554.2 458.7 At 27 June 2015, assets held for sale had a carrying value of 6.0m, consisting of 2.5m of property, plant and equipment available for sale and 3.5m of 636.3 604.2 bus vehicles awaiting refinancing onto operating leases.
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between 16.
Inventories one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
The fair Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products.
For accounting policies see Inventories value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from book value.
Amounts held by rail companies included in cash at bank and on short term deposit can be distributed only with the agreement of the DfT, normally up 2016 2015 to the value of distributable reserves or based on a working capital formula.
As at 2 July 2016, balances amounting to 562.3m 2015: 537.6m were m m restricted.
Part of this amount is to cover deferred income for rail season tickets, which was 181.3m at 2 July 2016 2015: 172.8m.
Raw materials and consumables 18.3 17.9 Non cashflow movements The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial.
During the year ended 27 June 2015 the Group transferred in certain assets and liabilities relating to the handover of the GTR franchise.
Initial cash received by the Group as a result of the rail franchise handover is detailed below: 17.
Trade and other receivables GTR Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in m advance, amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable.
Property, plant and equipment 6.9 2016 2015 Inventories 5.3 m m Trade and other receivables 7.1 Current Trade and other payables 53.9 Trade receivables 178.1 102.0 Provisions 0.2 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 1.7 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents 34.8 Trade receivables net 176.4 100.9 Other receivables 32.7 66.5 Prepayments 48.5 18.8 19.
Trade and other payables Accrued income 45.4 23.0 Trade and other payables mainly consist of amounts owed to suppliers that have been invoiced or accrued, deferred income and deferred season ticket Receivable from central government 34.0 50.9 income.
They also include taxes and social security amounts due in relation to our role as an employer and amounts owed to central government.
337.0 260.1 2016 2015 m m Current 2016 2015 m m Trade payables 262.0 148.9 Other taxes and social security costs 30.6 22.8 Non-current Other payables 67.9 106.6 Other receivables 1.6 0.8 Deferred season ticket income 181.3 175.4 As at 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Accruals 122.1 106.0 Past due but not Deferred income 56.0 148.2 Neither past due impaired more Payable to central government 149.9 60.5 Total nor impaired Less than 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days than 120 days m m m m m m m Government grants 2.7 4.5 2016 176.4 166.5 3.0 3.4 2.2 0.5 0.8 872.5 772.9 2015 100.9 88.0 11.2 0.8 0.6 0.3 Trade receivables at nominal value of 1.7m 2015: 1.1m were impaired and fully provided for.
Movements in the provision for impairment of 2016 2015 m m receivables were as follows: Non-current Total m Government grants 4.3 5.2 At 27 June 2015 1.1 4.3 5.2 Charge for the year 1.1 Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: Utilised 0.2 Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms Unused amounts reversed 0.3 At 2 July 2016 1.7 Other payables are non-interest-bearing and have varying terms of up to 12 months As at 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of impaired and fully provided for trade receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 m m 60-90 days 90-120 days More than 120 days 1.7 1.1 1.7 1.1 138 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 139 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Groups sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond.
For accounting policies see Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and Cash and cash equivalents in note 2.
Net cash debt and interest-bearing loans and borrowings The net cash debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: Year ended 2 July 2016 Current Non-current After one year Effective Within but not more than After more than interest rate one year five years five years Total % Maturity m m m m Syndicated loans see below 1.00 0-5 years 113.0 113.0 Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.3 0.6 0.9 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-2 years 200.0 200.0 Debt issue costs Finance leases and HP commitments see note 21 8.89 0-1 years 0.3 0.3 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 312.4 312.4 Debt issue costs 0.3 0.6 0.9 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings gross of debt issue costs 0.3 313.0 313.3 Cash and short term deposits note 18 636.3 636.3 Net cash 636.0 313.0 323.0 Restricted cash 562.3 Adjusted net debt 239.3 Year ended 27 June 2015 Current Non-current After one year Effective Within but not more than After more than interest rate one year five years five years Total % Maturity m m m m Syndicated loans see below 1.01 0-5 years 111.0 111.0 Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.4 0.8 1.2 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-3 years 200.0 200.0 Debt issue costs 0.5 0.1 0.6 Finance leases and HP commitments see note 21 9.55 0-3 years 0.2 0.1 0.3 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.7 310.2 309.5 Debt issue costs 0.9 0.9 1.8 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings gross of debt issue costs 0.2 311.1 311.3 Cash and short term deposits note 18 604.2 604.2 Net cash 604.0 311.1 292.9 Restricted cash 537.6 Adjusted net debt 244.7 Restricted cash balances are amounts held by rail companies which are included in cash and short term deposits.
The restricted cash can only be distributed with the agreement of the DfT, normally up to the value of revenue reserves or based on a working capital formula.
140 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 140 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Analysis of Group net debt Cash and cash Syndicated loan Hire purchase 200m The Groups sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond.
equivalents facility Dollar loan finance leases sterling bond Total For accounting policies see Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and Cash and cash equivalents in note 2. m m m m m m Net cash debt and interest-bearing loans and borrowings 28 June 2014 281.8 120.0 2.5 2.0 200.0 42.7 The net cash debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: Cashflow 287.6 9.0 2.5 1.7 300.8 On handover of rail franchise 34.8 34.8 Year ended 2 July 2016 Current Non-current 27 June 2015 604.2 111.0 0.3 200.0 292.9 After one year Cashflow 32.1 2.0 1.1 31.2 Effective Within but not more than After more than On acquisition 1.1 1.1 interest rate one year five years five years Total 2 July 2016 636.3 113.0 0.3 200.0 323.0 % Maturity m m m m Syndicated loans see below 1.00 0-5 years 113.0 113.0 Syndicated loan facility Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.3 0.6 0.9 On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a 280.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
The loan facility is unsecured and interest is 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-2 years 200.0 200.0 charged at LIBOR Margin, where the margin is dependent upon the gearing of the Group.
The facility had an initial maturity of July 2019, with two Debt issue costs one-year extensions, the second of which was agreed on 20 June 2016, extending the maturity of the facility to July 2021 from that date.
Finance leases and HP commitments As at 2 July 2016, 113.0m 2015: 111.0m of the facility was drawn down.
see note 21 8.89 0-1 years 0.3 0.3 200m sterling 7.5 year bond Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 312.4 312.4 On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017 with a coupon rate of 5.375%.
Debt issue costs 0.3 0.6 0.9 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 200m term loan gross of debt issue costs 0.3 313.0 313.3 On 26 August 2016, the Group entered into a 200m term loan to provide flexibility on refinancing the 200m sterling 7.5 year bond.
The facility is available to draw down between 4 September 2017 and 29 September 2017.
Once drawn down, the facility is available to the Group with extensions Cash and short term deposits note 18 636.3 636.3 for up to a further 24 months.
The loan facility is unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR Margin, where the margin is dependant on the Groups Net cash 636.0 313.0 323.0 investment grade rating, currently BBBand Baaa3.
Restricted cash 562.3 Dollar loan On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was entered into for the purposes of financing our Go-Ahead North America joint venture.
The joint Adjusted net debt 239.3 venture ceased trading on 25 July 2014, and on termination of the joint venture all outstanding loans were repaid and the facility subsequently cancelled.
Year ended 27 June 2015 The dollar loan was unsecured and interest was charged at US$ LIBOR Margin.
Current Non-current Debt issue costs After one year Effective Within but not more than After more than There are debt issue costs of 0.9m 2015: 1.2m on the syndicated loan facility.
interest rate one year five years five years Total The 200m sterling 7.5 year bond has debt issue costs of nil 2015: 0.6m.
% Maturity m m m m The Group is subject to two covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities.
The covenants specify a maximum adjusted net debt to EBITDA and a Syndicated loans see below 1.01 0-5 years 111.0 111.0 minimum net interest cover.
At the year end and throughout the year, the Group has not been in breach of any bank covenants.
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.4 0.8 1.2 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-3 years 200.0 200.0 21.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments Debt issue costs 0.5 0.1 0.6 This note details finance lease and hire purchase commitments.
For accounting policies see Interest bearing loans and borrowings in note 2.
Finance leases and HP commitments The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for bus vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These contracts have no terms of see note 21 9.55 0-3 years 0.2 0.1 0.3 renewal or purchase option escalation clauses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.7 310.2 309.5 present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Debt issue costs 0.9 0.9 1.8 2016 2015 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings Minimum Present value Minimum Present value gross of debt issue costs 0.2 311.1 311.3 payments of payments payments of payments m m m m Cash and short term deposits note 18 604.2 604.2 Net cash 604.0 311.1 292.9 Within one year 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 After one year but not more than five years 0.1 0.1 Total minimum lease payments 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Restricted cash 537.6 Less amounts representing finance charges Adjusted net debt 244.7 Present value of minimum lease payments 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Restricted cash balances are amounts held by rail companies which are included in cash and short term deposits.
140 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 141 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Financial risk factors and management The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Groups activities, namely working capital, fixed asset expenditure, acquisitions and dividends.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
It is Group policy to enter into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps.
The purpose of these is to manage the fuel price and interest rate risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
At the year end, the Group did not hold any interest rate swaps.
It is, and has been throughout 2014 15 and 2015 16, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only purchased for internal benefit.
The main financial risks arising from the Groups activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Commodity price risk is managed via fuel derviatives.
Risks arising from these are explained in note 23.
Interest rate risk The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates.
The Groups policy toward cash deposits is to deposit cash short term on UK money markets.
Interest payable on senior bank borrowings can be based on re-fixing the rate of interest over short periods of time of up to 36 months.
The Group manages interest rate risk through a combination of fixed rate instruments and or interest rate derivatives.
During the years ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 the Group had no interest rate swaps in place.
The Group has net cash and hence the present adverse risk is a decrease in interest rates.
The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group excluding unamortised issue costs as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 is as follows: Average Within More than rate 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total % m m m m m m m Year ended 2 July 2016 Floating rate assets liabilities Variable rate loans 1.00 113.0 113.0 Gross floating rate liabilities 113.0 113.0 Cash assets 0.55 636.3 636.3 Net floating rate assets liabilities 636.3 113.0 523.3 Fixed rate liabilities 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 8.89 0.3 0.3 Net fixed rate liabilities 0.3 200.0 200.3 Year ended 27 June 2015 Floating rate assets liabilities Variable rate loans 1.10 111.0 111.0 Gross floating rate liabilities 111.0 111.0 Cash assets 0.54 604.2 604.2 Net floating rate assets liabilities 604.2 111.0 493.2 Fixed rate liabilities 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 9.55 0.2 0.1 0.3 Net fixed rate liabilities 0.2 0.1 200.0 200.3 The expected maturity of the financial assets and liablities in the table above is the same as the contractual maturity of the financial assets and liabilities.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
142 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 142 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Interest rate risk table The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings based on recent historic changes.
to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Increase Effect on profit Effect on Financial risk factors and management decrease in before tax equity The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term basis points m m deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Groups activities, namely working 2016 capital, fixed asset expenditure, acquisitions and dividends.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 payables, which arise directly from its operations.
GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 It is Group policy to enter into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps.
The purpose of these is to manage the fuel price and 2015 interest rate risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 It is, and has been throughout 2014 15 and 2015 16, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 purchased for internal benefit.
Liquidity risk The main financial risks arising from the Groups activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Commodity price risk is managed via fuel The Group has in place a 280.0m syndicated loan facility which allows the Group to maintain liquidity within the desired gearing range.
On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a 280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, with two one-year extensions replacing the Interest rate risk previous 275.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
The second of the one-year extensions was agreed on 20 June 2016, extending the maturity of the The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates.
The Groups policy toward cash deposits is to deposit cash short current facility to July 2021. term on UK money markets.
On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017.
The level of drawdown and prevailing interest rates are detailed in note 20.
The Group has net cash and hence the present adverse risk is a decrease in On 26 August 2016, the Group entered into a 200m term loan to provide flexibility on refinancing the 200m sterling 7.5 year bond.
The facility is interest rates.
available to draw down between 4 September 2017 and 29 September 2017.
Once drawn down, the facility is available to the Group with extensions for up to a further 24 months.
The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group excluding unamortised issue costs as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 is as follows: Available liquidity as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 was as follows: Average Within More than 2016 2015 rate 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total m m % m m m m m m m Five year syndicated facility 2019 2021 280.0 280.0 Year ended 2 July 2016 200m 7.5 year 5.375% sterling bond 2017 200.0 200.0 Floating rate assets liabilities Total core facilities 480.0 480.0 Variable rate loans 1.00 113.0 113.0 Amount drawn down at 2 July 2016 313.0 311.0 Gross floating rate liabilities 113.0 113.0 Headroom 167.0 169.0 Cash assets 0.55 636.3 636.3 Net floating rate assets liabilities 636.3 113.0 523.3 The Groups bus vehicles can be financed by hire purchase or finance lease arrangements, or term loans at fixed rates of interest over two to five year Fixed rate liabilities primary borrowing periods.
This provides a regular inflow of funding to cover expenditure as it arises.
200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Foreign currency risk Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase The Group has foreign exchange exposure in respect of cashflow commitments to both its operations in Germany and in Singapore, of which neither contracts 8.89 0.3 0.3 are currently material to the Group.
Net fixed rate liabilities 0.3 200.0 200.3 Credit risk The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables see note 17 and cash deposits see note 18.
The maximum credit risk exposure Year ended 27 June 2015 of the Group comprises the amounts presented in the balance sheet, which are stated net of provisions for doubtful debt.
A provision is made where Floating rate assets liabilities there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of future cashflows.
Variable rate loans 1.10 111.0 111.0 The majority of the Groups receivables are with public or quasi-public bodies such as the DfT.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to Gross floating rate liabilities 111.0 111.0 be a significant credit risk.
Risk of exposure to non-return of cash on deposit is managed through a treasury policy of holding deposits with banks rated Cash assets 0.54 604.2 604.2 Aor A3 or above by at least one of the credit rating agencies.
The treasury policy outlines the maximum level of deposit that can be placed with any Net floating rate assets liabilities 604.2 111.0 493.2 one given financial institution.
Fixed rate liabilities 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 9.55 0.2 0.1 0.3 Net fixed rate liabilities 0.2 0.1 200.0 200.3 The expected maturity of the financial assets and liablities in the table above is the same as the contractual maturity of the financial assets and liabilities.
142 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 143 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Contractual payments The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Year ended 2 July 2016 Less than More than On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.2 0.9 116.9 118.0 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.7 202.7 213.4 Other financial liabilities 2.4 7.9 4.1 14.4 Trade and other payables 24.0 483.4 86.7 594.1 24.0 496.7 95.5 323.7 939.9 Year ended 27 June 2015 Less than More than On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.2 0.7 113.8 114.7 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.6 212.9 223.5 Other financial liabilities 4.8 14.3 5.5 24.6 Trade and other payables 20.0 321.5 80.4 421.9 20.0 337.1 95.4 332.2 784.7 Managing capital The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
Details of the issued capital and reserves are shown in note 25.
Details of interest-bearing loans and borrowings are shown in note 20.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015.
The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt adjusted to exclude restricted cash to EBITDA is within a range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-.
In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys as follows: Standard & Poors BBBStable outlook Moodys Baa3 Stable outlook Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 2 July 2016.
The Groups policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x.
The Groups calculation of adjusted net debt is set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash.
During the year no specific actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating.
Our primary financial covenant under the 2021 syndicated loan facility is an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x and at 2 July 2016, was 1.36x 2015: 1.32x.
Under the previous 2016 syndicated loan facility we adjusted for the effect of IAS 19 revised of 37.0m 2015: 20.0m resulting in a restated adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.12x 2015: 1.19x.
Operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs.
Operating leases The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the risk of ownership at the end of the contract.
This results in 1.1m 2015: 1.1m of cost within operating charges which would otherwise have been charged to interest.
The Group holds operating leases for its bus fleet with an asset capital value of 24.6m 2015: 20.1m.
The majority of assets in the rail division are financed by operating leases, in particular rolling stock.
144 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 144 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 23.
Derivatives and financial instruments A derivative is a security whose price is dependent upon or derived from an underlying asset.
The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks Contractual payments associated with fuel price fluctuations.
Financial instruments held by the Group include fuel hedge derivatives and finance lease hire purchase contracts.
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 based on contractual For accounting policies see Financial assets and derivatives, Fair value measurement and Interest bearing loans and borrowings in note 2. undiscounted payments.
Fair values Year ended 2 July 2016 The fair values of the Groups financial instruments carried in the financial statements have been reviewed as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 and Less than More than are as follows: On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m 2016 2015 m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.2 0.9 116.9 118.0 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.7 202.7 213.4 Non-current assets 0.2 Other financial liabilities 2.4 7.9 4.1 14.4 Current assets 0.6 Trade and other payables 24.0 483.4 86.7 594.1 0.8 Current liabilities 10.3 19.1 24.0 496.7 95.5 323.7 939.9 Non-current liabilities 4.1 5.5 Year ended 27 June 2015 14.4 24.6 Less than More than On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total Net financial derivatives 13.6 24.6 m m m m m m Year ended 2 July 2016 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.2 0.7 113.8 114.7 Held for trading 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.6 212.9 223.5 Fair value through Total Amortised cost profit and loss carrying value Fair value Other financial liabilities 4.8 14.3 5.5 24.6 m m m m Trade and other payables 20.0 321.5 80.4 421.9 Fuel price derivatives 13.6 13.6 13.6 20.0 337.1 95.4 332.2 784.7 Net financial derviatives 13.6 13.6 13.6 Managing capital Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 0.3 0.3 0.3 The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to 0.3 13.6 13.9 13.9 support its business and maximise shareholder value.
Details of interest-bearing loans and borrowings are shown in Year ended 27 June 2015 Held for trading note 20.
Fair value through Total To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new Amortised cost profit and loss carrying value Fair value shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015. m m m m Fuel price derivatives 24.6 24.6 24.6 The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt adjusted to exclude restricted cash to EBITDA is within a range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-.
Net financial derivatives 24.6 24.6 24.6 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 0.3 0.3 0.3 In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys as follows: 0.3 24.6 24.9 24.9 Standard & Poors BBBStable outlook Moodys Baa3 Stable outlook The fair value of all other assets and liabilities in notes 17, 19 and 20 is not significantly different from their carrying amount, with the exception of the 200m sterling 7.5 year bond which has a fair value of 209.5m 2015: 213.7m but is carried at its amortised cost of 200.0m 2015: 199.4m.
The Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 2 July 2016. fair value of the 200m sterling 7.5 year bond has been determined by reference to the price available from the market on which the bond is traded.
The Groups calculation of adjusted net debt is The fuel price derivatives were valued externally by the respective banks by comparison with the market fuel price for the relevant date.
set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash.
During the year no All other fair values shown above have been calculated by discounting cashflows at prevailing interest rates.
specific actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Our primary financial covenant under the 2021 syndicated loan facility is an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x and at 2 July 2016, was 1.36x 2015: 1.32x.
Under the previous 2016 syndicated loan facility we adjusted for the effect of IAS 19 revised of 37.0m 2015: 20.0m Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities resulting in a restated adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.12x 2015: 1.19x.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data Operating leases As at 2 July 2016, the Group has used a level 2 valuation technique to determine the fair value of all financial instruments.
The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the During the year ended 2 July 2016, there were no transfers between valuation levels.
risk of ownership at the end of the contract.
144 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 145 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivatives and financial instruments continued b.
Hedging activities Fuel derivatives The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage.
The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to hedge its exposure to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.
Bus As at 2 July 2016 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 370 million litres for the five years ending June 2021.
The fair value of the asset or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet.
The value has been generated since the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices.
As at 2 July 2016 the amounts hedged are as follows: 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Actual percentage hedged 100% 100% 60% 30% 10% Litres hedged million 125 124 73 36 12 Price pence per litre 36.4 34.7 32.3 33.4 35.1 Assuming consistent usage and that hedging is completed at June 2016 market price.
Rail As at 2 July 2016 the Group had derivatives against rail fuel of 12 million litres for the year ended 1 July 2017 and 4 million litres for the 2018 financial year, representing the anticipated fuel usage in London Midland.
The movement during the year on the hedging reserve was 9.2m credit net of tax 2015: 15.8m debit net of tax taken through other comprehensive income.
Provisions A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is therefore often estimated.
The main provisions we hold are in relation to uninsured claims and dilapidation provisions relating to franchise commitments.
For accounting policies see Provisions and Uninsured liabilities in note 2.
Franchise Uninsured commitments claims Other Total m m m m At 27 June 2015 63.2 41.3 3.1 107.6 Provided after discounting 12.4 20.8 0.9 34.1 Utilised 12.9 16.0 28.9 Released 3.4 5.6 0.5 9.5 Unwinding of discounting 0.8 1.6 2.4 At 2 July 2016 60.1 42.1 3.5 105.7 2016 2015 m m Current 32.0 75.4 Non-current 73.7 32.2 105.7 107.6 Franchise commitments comprise 57.7m 2015: 60.1m dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our three active rail franchises, and 2.4m 2015: 3.1m provisions relating to other franchise commitments.
Of the dilapidations provisions, 12.1m 2015: 52.1m are classified as current.
All of the 2.4m 2015: 3.1m provision relating to other franchise commitments is classified as current.
During the year 3.4m 2015: 9.3m of provisions previously provided were released following the successful renegotiation of certain contract conditions.
The dilapidations will be incurred as part of a rolling maintenance contract over the next three years.
The provisions are based on managements assessment of most probable outcomes, supported where appropriate by valuations from professional external advisors.
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group by the insurer.
Of the uninsured claims, 16.0m 2015: 19.1m are classified as current and 26.1m 2015: 22.2m are classified as non-current based on past experience of uninsured claims paid out annually.
It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within the next six years.
Within other provisions, 3.2m 2015: 2.8m relates to dilapidations in the bus division of which 1.2m 2015: 0.8m are classified as current, and 2.0m 2015: 2.0m are classified as non-current.
It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to five years.
The remaining other current provision of 0.3m 2015: 0.3m relates to completion claims regarding the sale of our aviation business.
146 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 146 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivatives and financial instruments continued 25.
Issued capital and reserves Called up share capital is the number of shares in issue at their par value.
For accounting policies see Treasury shares in note 2. b.
Hedging activities Allotted, called up and fully paid Fuel derivatives 2016 2015 Millions m Millions m The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage.
As at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 46.9 4.7 46.9 4.7 Bus The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income and have a par value of 10p per share.
As at 2 July 2016 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 370 million litres for the five years ending June 2021.
The value has been generated since the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in Share capital market fuel prices.
Share capital represents proceeds on issue of the Groups equity, both nominal value and share premium.
As at 2 July 2016 the amounts hedged are as follows: Reserve for own shares 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 The reserve for own shares is in respect of 4,017,412 ordinary shares 8.6% of share capital, of which 115,182 are held for LTIP and DSBP arrangements.
Actual percentage hedged 100% 100% 60% 30% 10% Litres hedged million 125 124 73 36 12 The remaining shares were purchased in order to enhance shareholders returns and are being held as treasury shares for future issue in appropriate Price pence per litre 36.4 34.7 32.3 33.4 35.1 circumstances.
During the year ended 2 July 2016 the Group has repurchased 172,964 shares 2015: no shares purchased.
The Group has not cancelled any shares during the year 2015: no shares cancelled.
Assuming consistent usage and that hedging is completed at June 2016 market price.
Share premium reserve Rail The share premium reserve represents the premium on shares that have been issued to fund or part fund acquisitions made by the Group.
This As at 2 July 2016 the Group had derivatives against rail fuel of 12 million litres for the year ended 1 July 2017 and 4 million litres for the 2018 financial treatment is in line with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. year, representing the anticipated fuel usage in London Midland.
Hedging reserve The movement during the year on the hedging reserve was 9.2m credit net of tax 2015: 15.8m debit net of tax taken through other The hedging reserve records the movement in value of fuel price derivatives, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity.
Capital redemption reserve The redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of cancelled shares.
Provisions A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is 26.
A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future, mainly in relation to operating leases and agreements to procure assets.
These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated financial statements as we have not yet received the goods or services from the supplier.
Franchise Uninsured commitments claims Other Total Capital commitments m m m m 2016 2015 m m At 27 June 2015 63.2 41.3 3.1 107.6 Provided after discounting 12.4 20.8 0.9 34.1 Contracted for but not provided acquisition of property, plant and equipment 78.3 52.7 Utilised 12.9 16.0 28.9 Contractual commitments Released 3.4 5.6 0.5 9.5 The Group had contractual commitments, regarding payments to the DfT in respect of the Southern franchise, which transferred to GTR on 26 July Unwinding of discounting 0.8 1.6 2.4 2015 of nil at 2 July 2016 27 June 2015: 22.5m payable within one year.
At 2 July 2016 60.1 42.1 3.5 105.7 2016 2015 m m Current 32.0 75.4 Non-current 73.7 32.2 105.7 107.6 Franchise commitments comprise 57.7m 2015: 60.1m dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our three active rail franchises, and 2.4m 2015: 3.1m provisions relating to other franchise commitments.
146 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 147 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Commitments continued Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items.
Renewals are at the option of the lessee.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were as follows: As at 2 July 2016 Rail rolling Rail access Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other m m m m m Within one year 10.6 0.6 525.6 608.0 202.7 In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.3 3.0 1,801.2 1,264.9 571.8 Over five years 2.8 2.6 86.7 57.3 29.4 25.7 6.2 2,413.5 1,930.2 803.9 As at 27 June 2015 Rail rolling Rail access Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other m m m m m Within one year 14.5 2.3 484.3 618.8 166.4 In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.6 5.4 1,791.7 1,810.9 541.9 Over five years 0.7 3.9 280.0 251.0 71.9 27.8 11.6 2,556.0 2,680.7 780.2 Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Groups train operating companies hold agreements under which they sub-lease rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 Land and Other rail Land and Other rail buildings agreements buildings agreements m m m m Within one year 3.5 2.9 4.8 2.8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2.5 2.8 11.7 Over five years 2.1 6.0 5.7 18.6 2.8 Performance bonds The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of 76.2m 2015: 124.3m, a loan guarantee bond of 36.3m 2015: 36.3m, and season ticket bonds of 227.1m 2015: 207.2m to the DfT in support of the Groups rail franchise operations.
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued certain performance bonds and a letter of credit.
The Group has a bond of $10.9m SGD 2015: $nil SGD to the Land Transport Authority of Singapore in support of the Groups Singapore bus operations.
At the year-end exchange rate this equates to 6.1m 2015: nil.
148 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 148 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme and a workplace saving scheme for our employees.
We also administer a defined benefit Operating lease commitments Group as lessee pension scheme, which is closed to new entrants and future accruals.
The train operating companies participate in the Rail Pension Scheme, a defined The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items.
There are no restrictions benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
For accounting policies see Retirement benefits in note 2.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were as follows: Retirement benefit obligations consist of the following: As at 2 July 2016 2016 2015 Rail rolling Rail access Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other m m m m m m m m m m m Pre-tax pension scheme liabilities 2.7 2.7 59.5 59.5 Within one year 10.6 0.6 525.6 608.0 202.7 In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.3 3.0 1,801.2 1,264.9 571.8 Over five years 2.8 2.6 86.7 57.3 29.4 2016 2015 Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total 25.7 6.2 2,413.5 1,930.2 803.9 m m m m m m As at 27 June 2015 Remeasurement gains losses due to: Rail rolling Rail access Experience on benefit obligations 68.8 0.4 68.4 21.9 32.9 54.8 Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other m m m m m Changes in demographic assumptions 10.6 10.6 Changes in financial assumptions 102.1 184.0 286.1 93.5 206.0 299.5 Within one year 14.5 2.3 484.3 618.8 166.4 Salary cap introduction 48.1 48.1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.6 5.4 1,791.7 1,810.9 541.9 Return on assets greater than discount rate 99.4 102.2 201.6 72.3 65.8 138.1 Over five years 0.7 3.9 280.0 251.0 71.9 Franchise adjustment movement 79.4 79.4 131.2 131.2 27.8 11.6 2,556.0 2,680.7 780.2 Remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 55.5 45.3 100.8 0.7 23.9 24.6 Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Groups train operating companies hold agreements under which they sub-lease rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the Bus schemes railway infrastructure track, stations and depots.
The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 were as follows: For the majority of bus employees, the Group operates one main pension scheme, The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan the Go-Ahead Plan, which 2016 2015 consists of a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution section as follows.
Land and Other rail Land and Other rail The defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is not contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme.
It is now closed to new entrants and buildings agreements buildings agreements m m m m has been replaced by a workplace saving scheme, which is also a defined contribution pension scheme.
The expense recognised for the defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is 9.9m 2015: 11.3m, being the contributions paid and payable.
The expense recognised for the Within one year 3.5 2.9 4.8 2.8 workplace saving scheme is 2.8m 2015: 1.9m being the contributions paid and payable.
In the second to fifth years inclusive 2.5 2.8 11.7 The defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead Plan is contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme and provides benefits based on a members Over five years 2.1 final salary.
The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Contributions to this section are assessed in accordance with the 6.0 5.7 18.6 2.8 advice of an independent qualified actuary.
The defined benefit section of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan has been closed to new entrants and Performance bonds closed to future accrual.
The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of 76.2m 2015: 124.3m, a loan guarantee bond of 36.3m 2015: 36.3m, and The Go-Ahead Plan is a plan for related companies within the Group where risks are shared.
The overall costs of the Go-Ahead Plan have been season ticket bonds of 227.1m 2015: 207.2m to the DfT in support of the Groups rail franchise operations.
recognised in the Groups financial statements according to IAS 19 revised.
Each of the participating companies accounts on the basis of contributions To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued paid by that company.
The Group accounts for the difference between the aggregate IAS 19 revised cost of the scheme and the aggregate certain performance bonds and a letter of credit.
The Group has a bond of $10.9m SGD 2015: $nil SGD to the Land Transport Authority of Singapore in support of the Groups Singapore bus The Go-Ahead Plan is governed by a Trustee Company and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
regulatory framework requires the Trustees of the Go-Ahead Plan and the Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and the necessary contributions as part of each triennial valuation.
The last actuarial valuation of the Go-Ahead Plan had an effective date of 31 March 2015.
The investment strategy of the Go-Ahead Plan, which aims to meet liabilities as they fall due, is to invest plan assets in a mix of equities, other return seeking assets and liability driven investments to maximise the return on plan assets and minimise risks associated with lower than expected returns on plan assets.
Trustees are required to regularly review investment strategy.
Other pension plans Some employees of Plymouth Citybus have entitlement to a Devon County Council defined benefit plan.
This scheme is externally funded and is now closed to new entrants.
Contributions to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary.
Summary of bus schemes year end assumptions 2016 2015 % % Retail price index inflation 2.9 3.3 Consumer price index inflation 1.9 2.3 Discount rate 2.8 3.8 Rate of increase in salaries n a n a Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 1.9 2.0 The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
148 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 149 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
2016 2015 Years Years Pensioner 21 20 Non-pensioner 22 21 Sensitivity analysis In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of the change in the key assumptions.
In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown.
2016 2015 Pension deficit Pension deficit % % Discount rate increase of 0.1% 1.7 1.7 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 1.5 1.5 Rate of increase in salaries increase of 0.1% n a n a Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 0.9 0.9 Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 3.6 The sensitivity analysis presented above has been calculated using approximate methods.
The use of 0.1% and 1 year in the sensitivity analysis is considered to be a reasonable illustrative approximation of possible changes, as these variations can regularly arise.
Maturity profile of bus schemes defined benefit obligation The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 2 July 2016.
Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements 2016 2015 m m Employers share of pension scheme: Liabilities at the end of the year 765.8 718.7 Assets at fair value 763.1 659.2 Pension scheme liability 2.7 59.5 150 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 150 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Pension cost for the financial year 2016 2015 The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the m m accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
Service cost 0.1 2016 2015 Years Years Administration costs 1.8 2.2 Settlement gain loss 0.5 0.5 Pensioner 21 20 Interest cost on net liabilities 2.1 2.4 Non-pensioner 22 21 Total pension costs 3.5 5.1 Sensitivity analysis In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the The 0.5m settlement gain represents gains made by the pension scheme in respect of the pension increase exchange exercise undertaken in the year.
impact of the change in the key assumptions.
Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year 2016 2015 2016 2015 Pension deficit Pension deficit m m % % Pension scheme liabilities at start of year 718.7 663.3 Discount rate increase of 0.1% 1.7 1.7 Service cost 0.1 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 1.5 1.5 Interest cost 26.4 27.2 Rate of increase in salaries increase of 0.1% n a n a Settlement gain 0.5 Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 0.9 0.9 Remeasurement gains losses due to: Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 3.6 Experience on benefit obligations 68.8 21.9 Changes in demographic assumptions 10.6 The sensitivity analysis presented above has been calculated using approximate methods.
Changes in financial assumptions 102.1 93.5 Transfer payments 17.9 Maturity profile of bus schemes defined benefit obligation Benefits paid 22.8 25.5 The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 2 July 2016.
Pension scheme liabilities at end of year 765.8 718.7 2016 m Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year June 2017 22.5 2016 2015 m m June 2018 23.0 June 2019 23.5 Fair value of assets at start of year 659.2 603.5 June 2020 24.1 Interest income of plan assets 24.3 24.8 June 2021 24.6 Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 99.4 72.3 June 2022 to June 2026 131.5 Administration costs 1.8 2.2 Group contributions 4.8 4.7 Category of assets at the year end Transfer payments 18.4 2016 2015 Benefits paid 22.8 25.5 m % m % Fair value of plan assets at end of year 763.1 659.2 Equities 275.1 36.0 254.3 38.6 Bonds 16.5 2.2 15.9 2.4 Estimated contributions for future Property 69.6 9.1 61.4 9.3 m Liability driven investing portfolio 392.2 51.4 306.1 46.4 Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2017 6.5 Cash other 9.7 1.3 21.5 3.3 Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2017 763.1 100.0 659.2 100.0 Estimated total contributions in financial year 2017 6.5 All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets.
Rail schemes Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements The Railways Pension Scheme RPS 2016 2015 The majority of employees in our train operating companies are members of sections of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is a shared m m costs scheme, with assets and liabilities split 60% 40% between the franchise holder employee respectively.
The RPS sections are all open to new Employers share of pension scheme: entrants and the assets and liabilities of each companys section are separately identifiable and segregated for funding purposes.
Liabilities at the end of the year 765.8 718.7 Changes in financial assumptions includes the effect of changes in the salary cap agreed to offset additional National Insurance costs as a result of the Assets at fair value 763.1 659.2 schemes no longer opting out.
Pension scheme liability 2.7 59.5 British Railways Additional Superannuation Scheme BRASS matching AVC Group contributions of 0.7m 2015: 0.8m were paid in the year.
It is our experience that all pension obligations to the RPS cease on expiry of the franchises without cash or other settlement, and therefore the obligations recognised on the balance sheet under IAS 19 revised are only those that are expected to be funded during the franchise term.
However, in spite of our past experience and that of other train operating companies proving otherwise, our legal obligations are not restricted.
On entering into a franchise, the operator becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the RPS rules is obliged to meet the schedule of contributions agreed with the scheme trustees and actuaries, in respect of which no funding cap is set out in the franchise contract.
The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
IAS 19 revised would require the Group to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its contractual obligation under the terms of each franchise agreement.
Following industry practice, the Group has concluded that the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the financial statements present fairly the Groups financial position, financial performance and cashflows, is to recognise its contractual but not its legal RPS defined benefit obligations.
In all other respects the Groups accounting policy is consistent with IAS 19 revised and the treatment adopted for non-rail defined benefit schemes.
In doing so, the Group has applied the provisions of paragraph 17 of IAS 1 and departed from the requirements of IAS 19 revised in order to achieve a fair presentation of the Groups obligations regarding its rail schemes and prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to a new franchise owner at exit.
150 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 151 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a franchise adjustment, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits that could arise from future contributions, and is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be required to fund or benefit from.
Summary of year end assumptions 2016 2015 % % Retail price index inflation 2.9 3.3 Consumer price index inflation 1.9 2.3 Discount rate 2.8 3.8 Rate of increase in salaries 3.1 4.3 Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 1.9 2.3 The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
2016 2015 Years Years Pensioner 22 22 Non-pensioner 24 24 The mortality assumptions adopted as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2013.
Sensitivity analysis Due to the natue of the franchise adjustment, the balance sheet position in respect of the rail pension schemes is not sensitive to small movements in any of the assumptions and therefore we have not included any quantitative sensitivity analysis.
Category of assets at the year end 2016 2015 m % m % Equities 1,907.6 96.5 1,663.6 95.5 Property 67.2 3.4 71.4 4.1 Cash 2.0 0.1 7.0 0.4 1,976.8 100.0 1,742.0 100.0 All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets.
Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements 2016 2015 m m Employers 60% share of pension scheme: Liabilities at the end of the year 2,625.8 2,290.4 Assets at fair value 1,976.8 1,742.0 Gross deficit 649.0 548.4 Franchise adjustment 649.0 548.4 Pension scheme liability 152 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 152 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Pension cost for the financial year 2016 2015 The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a franchise adjustment, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits that could arise m m from future contributions, and is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be required Service cost 85.5 63.2 to fund or benefit from.
Administration costs 3.9 3.0 Summary of year end assumptions Interest cost on net liabilities 21.2 16.9 2016 2015 Interest on franchise adjustments 21.2 16.9 % % Pension cost 89.4 66.2 Retail price index inflation 2.9 3.3 Consumer price index inflation 1.9 2.3 Analysis of the change in the employers 60% share of pension scheme liabilities over the financial year Discount rate 2.8 3.8 2016 2015 m m Rate of increase in salaries 3.1 4.3 Pension scheme liabilities less members share 40% of the deficit at start of year 2,290.4 1,601.6 Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 1.9 2.3 Franchise adjustment 100% 548.4 337.3 The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
1,742.0 1,264.3 The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the Liability movement for members share of assets 40% 119.9 94.1 accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
Service cost 60% 85.5 63.2 2016 2015 Interest cost 60% 60.6 55.2 Years Years Interest on franchise adjustment 100% 21.2 16.9 Pensioner 22 22 Remeasurement losses gains due to: Non-pensioner 24 24 Experience on benefit obligations 60% 0.4 32.9 Changes in financial assumptions 60% 184.0 206.1 The mortality assumptions adopted as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2013.
Salary cap introduction 60% 48.1 Sensitivity analysis Benefits paid 100% 66.9 51.7 Due to the natue of the franchise adjustment, the balance sheet position in respect of the rail pension schemes is not sensitive to small movements in GTR franchise award employers share of pension scheme liabilities 60% 354.8 any of the assumptions and therefore we have not included any quantitative sensitivity analysis.
GTR franchise award franchise adjustment 100% 63.0 Category of assets at the year end Franchise adjustment movement 100% 79.4 131.2 2016 2015 1,976.8 1,742.0 m % m % Franchise adjustment 100% 649.0 548.4 Equities 1,907.6 96.5 1,663.6 95.5 Pension scheme liabilities less members share 40% of the deficit at end of year 2,625.8 2,290.4 Property 67.2 3.4 71.4 4.1 Cash 2.0 0.1 7.0 0.4 Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year 2016 2015 1,976.8 100.0 1,742.0 100.0 m m All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets.
Fair value of assets at start of year 100% 1,742.0 1,264.3 Interest income of plan assets 60% 39.3 38.3 Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements 2016 2015 Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 60% 102.2 65.8 m m Administration costs 100% 6.6 5.0 Employers 60% share of pension scheme: Group contributions 100% 43.5 41.5 Liabilities at the end of the year 2,625.8 2,290.4 Benefits paid 100% 66.9 51.7 Assets at fair value 1,976.8 1,742.0 GTR franchise award 100% 291.8 Gross deficit 649.0 548.4 Members share of movement of assets 40% 123.3 97.0 Franchise adjustment 649.0 548.4 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 100% 1,976.8 1,742.0 Pension scheme liability Estimated contributions for future m Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2017 37.4 Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2017 24.2 Estimated total contributions in financial year 2017 61.6 152 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 153 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued If the Group had accounted for the rail schemes in accordance with the full provisions of IAS 19 revised the following adjustments would have been made to the financial statements: 2016 2015 m m Balance sheet Defined benefit pension plan 649.0 548.4 Deferred tax asset 116.8 109.7 532.2 438.7 Other comprehensive income Remeasurement gains 79.4 131.2 Tax on remeasurement gains 14.3 26.2 65.1 105.0 Income statement Operating costs franchise adjustment 21.2 16.9 Deferred tax charge 3.8 3.4 17.4 13.5 Risks associated with defined benefit plans Rail schemes Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the train operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise.
As such, there is only short term cashflow risk within this business.
Bus schemes The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan, closed to future accrual.
The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: Risk Description Mitigation Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in reference to bond yields with maturity profiles matching pension all significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are rewarded maturity: if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
and that we have a balance of risk seeking and liability driven Most of the defined benefit arrangements hold a proportion investments.
of return-seeking assets equities, diversified growth funds and global absolute return funds, and to offset the additional risk, hold a proportion in liability driven investments, which should reduce volatility.
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked The business has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
which helps to offset this risk.
Life expectancy The majority of the Schemes obligations are to provide benefits The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will reducing exposure to increases in life expectancy risk.
result in an increase in the liabilities.
Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain.
In the past these have The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual, led to increases in obligations, introducing pension increases, reducing risk to legislative change.
The Group takes professional and vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced investment advice to keep abreast of legislative changes.
return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation Tax.
The UK government has legislated to end contracting out in 2016.
Further legislation could result in an increase in the value of Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
If this legislation is implemented, this would increase the defined benefit obligation of the arrangements.
154 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 154 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Related party disclosures and Group undertakings 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Our subsidiaries listed below each contributes to the profits, assets and cashflow of the Group.
The Group has a number of related parties including If the Group had accounted for the rail schemes in accordance with the full provisions of IAS 19 revised the following adjustments would have been joint ventures, pension schemes and directors.
For accounting policies see Interests in joint arrangements in note 2. made to the financial statements: The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and the following Group undertakings: 2016 2015 m m % equity interest Name Country of incorporation 2016 2015 Balance sheet Trading subsidiaries Defined benefit pension plan 649.0 548.4 2 Go-Ahead Holding Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Deferred tax asset 116.8 109.7 Go North East Limited United Kingdom 100 100 532.2 438.7 Go Northern Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Other comprehensive income London General Transport Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Remeasurement gains 79.4 131.2 London Central Bus Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Tax on remeasurement gains 14.3 26.2 Go-Ahead London Rail Replacement Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 65.1 105.0 Metrobus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Income statement Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Operating costs franchise adjustment 21.2 16.9 The City of Oxford Motor Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Deferred tax charge 3.8 3.4 Go South Coast Limited United Kingdom 100 100 17.4 13.5 Hants & Dorset Transport Support Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Risks associated with defined benefit plans Plymouth Citybus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Konectbus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Rail schemes Thames Travel Wallingford Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the train Carousel Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise.
As such, there is only short term cashflow risk within Hedingham and District Omnibuses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 this business.
Anglian Bus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Bus schemes HC Chambers and Son Limited United Kingdom 100 100 The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Group Aviance UK Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Pension Plan, closed to future accrual.
1 New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: 1 London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Risk Description Mitigation 1 London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in 1 Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 reference to bond yields with maturity profiles matching pension all significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are rewarded 1 Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 maturity: if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
and that we have a balance of risk seeking and liability driven 1 Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Most of the defined benefit arrangements hold a proportion investments.
1 Govia Limited United Kingdom 65 65 of return-seeking assets equities, diversified growth funds and Go-Ahead Scotland Limited United Kingdom 100 100 global absolute return funds, and to offset the additional risk, hold a proportion in liability driven investments, which should Go-Ahead Holding LLC United States of America 100 reduce volatility.
Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked The business has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, Go-Ahead Holding Singapore PTE Ltd Singapore 100 to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
Go-Ahead Loyang PTE Ltd Singapore 100 Life expectancy The majority of the Schemes obligations are to provide benefits The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual Jointly controlled entities 3 for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will reducing exposure to increases in life expectancy risk.
On Track Retail Limited United Kingdom 50 50 result in an increase in the liabilities.
1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis UK Limited and held through Govia Limited.
In the past these have The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual, 2 Held by The Go-Ahead Group plc.
All other companies are held through subsidiary undertakings.
led to increases in obligations, introducing pension increases, reducing risk to legislative change.
The Group takes professional 3 On Track Retail Limited is a start up company and was immaterial to the Groups financial statements.
and vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced investment advice to keep abreast of legislative changes.
return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation The above trading subsidiaries have one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
With the exception of On Track Retail Limited, Tax.
The UK government has legislated to end contracting out whch also have redeemable preference shares.
Further legislation could result in an increase in the rd The registered office of all trading subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom is: 3 Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE.
value of Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
If this legislation is The registered office of Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH incorporated in Germany is: Platz vor dem Neuen Tor 2, D- 10115, implemented, this would increase the defined benefit obligation Berlin, Germany.
The registered office of trading subsidiaries incorporated in Singapore is: 2 Loyang Way, Singapore 508776.
154 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 155 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Related party disclosures and Group undertakings continued % equity interest Name Company number Country of incorporation 2016 2015 Dormant subsidiaries Eastern Railway Limited 7164882 United Kingdom 100 100 Go Wear Buses Limited 2019645 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Reading Limited 3158846 United Kingdom 100 100 South Central Limited 4173713 United Kingdom 100 100 The Go-Ahead Group Trustee Co Limited 2125799 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Property Development Limited 7128594 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead XX Limited 8205871 United Kingdom 100 100 GHI Limited 4262016 United Kingdom 100 100 Southern Vectis Limited 2005917 United Kingdom 100 100 Birmingham Passenger Transport Services Limited 2901263 United Kingdom 100 100 Go Coastline Limited 2018469 United Kingdom 100 100 Go London Limited 2849983 United Kingdom 100 100 Go West Midlands Limited 2490584 United Kingdom 100 100 Levers Coaches Limited 2524573 United Kingdom 100 100 MetroCity Newcastle Limited 4153866 United Kingdom 100 100 Thames Trains Limited 3007943 United Kingdom 100 100 Victory Railway Holdings Limited 3147927 United Kingdom 100 100 1 Govia Northern Limited 6537238 United Kingdom 65 65 1 London & East Midlands Railway Limited 5814586 United Kingdom 65 65 London and West Midlands Railway Limited 1 previously North London Orbital Railway Limited 5537947 United Kingdom 65 65 Abingdon Bus Company Limited 3151270 United Kingdom 100 100 Reed Investments Limited 4236536 United Kingdom 100 100 Gatwick Handling Limited 2984113 United Kingdom 100 100 GH Heathrow Limited 2813292 United Kingdom 100 100 GH Manchester Limited 1883900 United Kingdom 100 100 GH Stansted Limited 1983429 United Kingdom 100 100 Midland Airport Services Limited 1592083 United Kingdom 100 100 Oxford Newco Limited 9542008 United Kingdom 100 100 London General Trustee Company Limited 6953098 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Finance Company 4699524 United Kingdom 100 100 Hants & Dorset Motor Services Limited 2752603 United Kingdom 100 100 Hants & Dorset Trim Limited 2017829 United Kingdom 100 100 Solent Blue Line Limited 2103030 United Kingdom 100 100 Marchwood Motorways Services Limited 2201331 United Kingdom 100 100 Marchwood Motorways Southampton Limited 1622531 United Kingdom 100 100 The Southern Vectis Omnibus Co. Limited 0241973 United Kingdom 100 100 Tourist Coaches Limited 3006529 United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Bus Company Limited 1671355 United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Investments Limited 4613075 United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Holdings Limited 2091878 United Kingdom 100 100 Dockland Buses Limited 3420004 United Kingdom 100 100 Blue Triangle Buses Limited 3770568 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Leasing Limited 5262810 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Sverige AB Sweden 100 Go-Ahead Norge AS Norway 100 1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis UK Limited and held through Govia Limited.
rd The registered office of all dormant subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom is: 3 Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE.
The registered office of Go-Ahead Sverige AB incorporated in Sweden is: Mster Samuelsgatan 20, SE 101 39, Stockholm, Sweden.
The registered office of Go-Ahead Norge AS incorporated in Norway is: Filipstad Brygge 1, NO 0125, Oslo, Norway.
All dormant companies listed above incorporated in the United Kingdom have taken advantage of the UK Companies Act 2006, S480 exemption from audit.
156 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 156 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Related party disclosures and Group undertakings continued Transactions with other related parties % equity interest The Group meets certain costs of administering the Groups retirement benefit plans, including the provision of meeting space and office support Name Company number Country of incorporation 2016 2015 functions to the trustees.
Costs borne on behalf of the retirement benefit plans amounted to 0.2m 2015: 0.2m.
Dormant subsidiaries Joint operations Eastern Railway Limited 7164882 United Kingdom 100 100 The Groups joint operations, On Track Retail Limited OTR have their principal place of business in the United Kingdom.
The principal activity of OTR Go Wear Buses Limited 2019645 United Kingdom 100 100 is the development and provision of web ticketing applications for the rail industry.
The activities of the joint operation are strategically important to the Go-Reading Limited 3158846 United Kingdom 100 100 business activities of the Group.
The Group owns 50% of the ordinary share capital of OTR.
South Central Limited 4173713 United Kingdom 100 100 Compensation of key management personnel of the Group The Go-Ahead Group Trustee Co Limited 2125799 United Kingdom 100 100 The key management are considered to be the directors of the parent company.
Go-Ahead Property Development Limited 7128594 United Kingdom 100 100 2016 2015 Go-Ahead XX Limited 8205871 United Kingdom 100 100 m m GHI Limited 4262016 United Kingdom 100 100 Short term employee benefits 1.3 1.9 Southern Vectis Limited 2005917 United Kingdom 100 100 1 Long term employee benefits 1.0 2.3 Birmingham Passenger Transport Services Limited 2901263 United Kingdom 100 100 Post employment benefits 0.1 Go Coastline Limited 2018469 United Kingdom 100 100 2.3 4.3 Go London Limited 2849983 United Kingdom 100 100 1 The long term employee benefits relate to LTIP and DSBP.
Go West Midlands Limited 2490584 United Kingdom 100 100 Levers Coaches Limited 2524573 United Kingdom 100 100 Material partly owned subsidiaries Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: MetroCity Newcastle Limited 4153866 United Kingdom 100 100 Thames Trains Limited 3007943 United Kingdom 100 100 Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests: Victory Railway Holdings Limited 3147927 United Kingdom 100 100 Country of incorporation 1 and operation 2016 2015 Govia Northern Limited 6537238 United Kingdom 65 65 1 Govia Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% London & East Midlands Railway Limited 5814586 United Kingdom 65 65 1 London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% London and West Midlands Railway Limited 1 1 previously North London Orbital Railway Limited 5537947 United Kingdom 65 65 Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 Abingdon Bus Company Limited 3151270 United Kingdom 100 100 London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 Reed Investments Limited 4236536 United Kingdom 100 100 Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 Gatwick Handling Limited 2984113 United Kingdom 100 100 Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 GH Heathrow Limited 2813292 United Kingdom 100 100 New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% GH Manchester Limited 1883900 United Kingdom 100 100 1 Subsidiary of Govia Limited.
GH Stansted Limited 1983429 United Kingdom 100 100 2016 2015 Midland Airport Services Limited 1592083 United Kingdom 100 100 m m Oxford Newco Limited 9542008 United Kingdom 100 100 Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interest: London General Trustee Company Limited 6953098 United Kingdom 100 100 Govia Limited 22.6 15.8 Go-Ahead Finance Company 4699524 United Kingdom 100 100 Total comprehensive income allocated to material non-controlling interest: Hants & Dorset Motor Services Limited 2752603 United Kingdom 100 100 Govia Limited 24.4 13.8 Hants & Dorset Trim Limited 2017829 United Kingdom 100 100 Solent Blue Line Limited 2103030 United Kingdom 100 100 Marchwood Motorways Services Limited 2201331 United Kingdom 100 100 Marchwood Motorways Southampton Limited 1622531 United Kingdom 100 100 The Southern Vectis Omnibus Co. Limited 0241973 United Kingdom 100 100 Tourist Coaches Limited 3006529 United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Bus Company Limited 1671355 United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Investments Limited 4613075 United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Holdings Limited 2091878 United Kingdom 100 100 Dockland Buses Limited 3420004 United Kingdom 100 100 Blue Triangle Buses Limited 3770568 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Leasing Limited 5262810 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Sverige AB Sweden 100 Go-Ahead Norge AS Norway 100 1 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis UK Limited and held through Govia Limited.
156 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 157 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Related party disclosures and Group undertakings continued The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below.
The information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations: Summarised income statement of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015: 2016 2015 m m Revenue 2,498.0 2,397.4 Operating costs excluding amortisation and exceptional operating costs 2,455.3 2,355.1 Intangible asset amortisation 0.6 0.8 Exceptional operating costs 8.8 Finance revenue 3.2 2.3 Finance costs 2.9 2.9 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 42.4 32.1 Tax expense 9.3 11.8 Profit for the year from controlling operations 33.1 20.3 Total comprehensive income 69.8 39.4 Attributable to non-controlling interests 24.4 13.8 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 17.8 12.8 Summarised balance sheet of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies as at 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015: 2016 2015 m m Current assets inventories, trade and other receivables, cash 924.5 843.7 Non-current assets property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred tax 35.4 25.0 Current liabilities trade and other payables, provisions 849.7 815.7 Non-current liabilities provisions 45.6 8.0 Total equity 64.6 45.0 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 42.0 29.2 Non-controlling interest 22.6 15.8 These balance sheet amounts are shown before intercompany eliminations.
Summarised cashflow information of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 2 July 2016 and 27 June 2015: 2016 2015 m m Operating 62.7 324.9 Investing 20.8 45.5 Financing 53.7 39.3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 29.8 331.1 158 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 158 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
