Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make Retirement benefit obligations judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these judgements and The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and ultimately may differ from these estimates.
deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out in note 27.
The Group engages Willis Towers Watson, a global The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of professional services company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities to support the process of establishing reasonable bases for all of these within the next financial year are in relation to: estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to the Groups particular Contract and franchise accounting circumstances.
Management also benchmark these assumptions on a The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were created at the time of periodic basis with other professional advisors such as privatisation and the relationships between them is governed by a number .
of contracts between the major participants, the DfT, Network Rail and Impairment testing train operating companies.
These contracts include detailed performance IFRS require management to review for impairment if events or changes in regimes which determine the allocation of financial responsibility relating circumstances indicate that carrying values may not be recoverable.
In to the attribution of delays.
The processes for attribution, whilst well addition the measurement and impairment reviews of indefinite life understood, require detailed assessment and can take significant time to intangible assets requires estimation of the net present value of future resolve, particularly in unusual circumstances.
cashflows including: The Group makes provision for income and costs relating to performance Growth in profitability and EBITDA adjusted for risk factors appropriate regimes and contractual obligations relating to operating delays caused by to each business Network Rail, or caused by our own operating companies.
This process can be based primarily on previous experience of settling such claims, or, Future growth rates in certain circumstances based on managements view of the most likely Timing of future cash outflows such as capital items required outcome of individual claims.
The Group has significant internal expertise The selection of a suitable discount rate adjusted for risk factors to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and the issues appropriate to the Group relating to delay attribution to enable management to assess the most No significant impairments arose in the current year.
The considerations probable outcomes, nonetheless significant judgements are required, applied in the review for impairment of goodwill balances are detailed in which can have material impacts on the financial statements.
Accordingly judgements in these and other areas are made on a The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving continuing basis with regard to amounts due and the recoverable carrying estimations as detailed above, that the directors have made in the value of related assets and liabilities arising from franchises and other process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have contracts.
Regular reviews are performed on the expected outcome of the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the these arrangements, which require assessments and judgements relating financial statements: to the expected level of revenues and costs.
Contract and franchise accounting is specific to the rail business disclosed in the segmental Exceptional operating costs analysis in note 3.
In certain years the Group presents as exceptional operating costs on the Measurement of franchise commitments face of the income statement, material items of revenue or expense The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation which, because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also income claims events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of financial performance.
The determination of whether from other rail franchise operators is set out in note 24.
Significant elements of the provisions required are subject to interpretation of items merit treatment as exceptional in a particular year is therefore a franchise agreements and rolling stock agreements.
The Group has matter of judgement.
significant internal expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the Accounting for the rail pension schemes agreements and to enable management to assess the most probable The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined benefit outcomes.
Where appropriate, and specifically in assessing dilapidation pension scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is provisions, this process is supported by valuations from professional partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of external advisors to support provision levels.
these schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most businesses the RPS is a shared cost Uninsured claims scheme which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer 40% The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the employee.
The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of franchise adjustment, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24.
In order to from future contributions, which is that portion of the deficit or surplus assess the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with its projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise is adequately required to fund or benefit from.
factored in to the provision for known claims.
120 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 120 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
