Other information Other information Glossary of terms Property Tenanted residential TR Gearing Activity covering the acquisition, renting The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, Assured periodic tenancy APT out and subsequent sale usually on tomarket net asset value.
Market-rented tenancy arising from vacancy of residential units subject succession from a regulated tenancy.
Goodwill Tenant has security of tenure.
On acquisition of a company, the Vacant possession value difference between the fair value of net Assured shorthold tenancy AST VPorVPV assets acquired and the fair value of the Market-rented tenancy where landlord Open market value of a property free purchase price paid.
mayobtain possession if appropriate from any tenancy.
EPRA NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the Financial Assured tenancy AT market value of property assets held Market-rented tenancy where tenant asstock but before deduction for Adjusted earnings has the right to renew.
deferred tax on property revaluations Profit before tax before valuation and before adjustments for the fair movements and non-recurring items.
Home reversion value of derivatives.
Rent free tenancy where tenant has the Cap right of occupation until possession is Hedging Financial instrument which, in return for forfeited usually on death.
If the tenant The use of financial instruments toprotect a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the retains an equity interest in the property against interest rate movements.
this is a partial life tenancy.
Interest cover Contingent tax Investment value IV or Profit on ordinary activities before The amount of tax that would be marketvalue interest and tax divided by net payable should trading property be sold Open market value of a property subject interestpayable.
at the market value shown in the market to relevant tenancy in place.
Loan to value LTV PRS Ratio of net debt to the market value Dividend cover Private rented sector.
Earnings per share divided by dividends pershare.
Regulated tenancy EPRA NNNAV Tenancy regulated under the 1977 Rent EPRA NAV adjusted for deferred tax Earnings per share EPS Act.
Rent usually sub-market is set by andthose contingent tax liabilities Profit after tax attributable to therent officer and the tenant has which would accrue if assets were sold shareholders divided by the weighted security of tenure.
at market value and for the fair value average number of shares in issue in oflong-term debt andderivatives.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 173 Other information Glossary of terms continued Operating Profit before Valuation Swap Movements OPBVM Financial instrument to protect against Operating profit before valuation interest rate movements.
Total shareholder return TSR Return on capital employed Return attributable to shareholders on Operating profit after net valuation thebasis of share price growth with movements on investment properties dividends reinvested.
plus the share of results from joint venture associates plus the movement Weighted average cost of capital on the uplift of trading stock to market WACC The weighted average cost of funding value as a percentage of opening gross the Groups activities through a capital defined as investment property, combination ofshareholders funds financial interest in property assets anddebt.
CHARM, investment in joint venture associates and trading stock at marketvalue.
Corporate Return on shareholders equity IFRS Growth in NNNAV in the year plus the International Financial Reporting dividend per share relating to each year Standards, mandatory for UK-listed asapercentage of opening NNNAV.
companies for accounting periods ending on or after 31December 2005.
174 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Other information Advisers Solicitors Independent auditor Corporate addresses Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer KPMG LLP Newcastle 65 Fleet Street Chartered Accountants Citygate London 15 Canada Square St James Boulevard Canary Wharf EC4Y 1HS Newcastle upon Tyne London NE1 4JE E14 5GL Financial public relations Tel: 0191 261 1819 Camarco Stockbrokers 107 Cheapside London JP Morgan Cazenove Limited London 1 London Bridge 25 Bank Street EC2V 6DN 3rd Floor East London London E14 5JP Banking SE1 9BG Clearing Bank and Facility Agent Tel: 020 7795 4700 Numis Securities Limited Barclays Bank PLC 10 Paternoster Square HSBC Bank PLC Birmingham London The Circle EC4M 7LT Other bankers Harborne Allied Irish Banks plc Birmingham Registrars and transfer office Lloyds Bank plc B17 9DY Capita Registers plc Nationwide Building Society Northern House Santander UK plc Manchester Woodsome Park The Royal Bank of Scotland plc St Johns House Fenay Bridge Aaeral Bank AG Barrington Road Huddersfield National Westminster Bank Altrincham West Yorkshire Cheshire HD8 0LA WA14 1TJ View our website www.
co. uk Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 175 Visit our website www.
co. uk This report has been printed on paper which supports the FSC Forest Stewardship Council chain of custody environmental sustainment programme.
The material used throughout the report is biodegradable, fully recyclable and elemental chlorine free.
Both the paper mill andprinter involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement.
Vegetable-based inks were used throughout the production process.
Designed and produced by Luminous www.
co. uk Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate addresses Newcastle Citygate St James Boulevard Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4JE Tel: 0191 261 1819 London 1 London Bridge 3rd Floor East London SE1 9BG Tel: 020 7795 4700 Birmingham The Circle Harborne Birmingham B17 9DY Manchester St Johns House Barrington Road Altrincham Cheshire WA14 1TJ
