GREENCOAT U K W I N D Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for Report and the financial statements in accordance with ensuring that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is applicable law and regulations.
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Groups performance, business model and strategy.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group Website Publication financial statements, and have elected to prepare the The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Annual Company financial statements, in accordance with IFRS Report and the financial statements are made available as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the on a website.
Financial statements are published on Directors must not approve the financial statements the Companys website in accordance with legislation unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company of financial statements, which may vary from legislation and of the profit or loss for the Group for that period.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of the In preparing these financial statements, the Directors Directors.
The Directors responsibilities also extend to are required to: the ongoing integrity of the financial statements select suitable accounting policies and then apply contained therein.
them consistently: Directors Responsibilities Pursuant to DTR4 make judgements and accounting estimates that The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge are reasonable and prudent: that: state whether they have been prepared in the Group financial statements have been accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by subject to any material departures disclosed and the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and explained in the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, prepare the financial statements on the going financial position and profit and loss of the Group: concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume and that the Company will continue in business: and the Annual Report includes a fair review of the prepare a Directors Report, a Strategic Report development and performance of the business and Directors Remuneration Report which comply and the financial position of the Group and the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. parent company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and On behalf of the Board, explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Tim Ingram responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Chairman Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 22 February 2017 29
