CHARITIES AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT ur supply chain is diverse, spanning IT, travel, sponsorship, n addition to commitment to provide a safe and secure gaming environment translation services, telephony and afliates amongst others.
for our customers, we recognise we have a wider responsibility to supporting O In 2017 we plan to integrate management of our suppliers I charities who work within our sector and the communities in which our ofces into a single Enterprise Resource Planning system.
As a business we make donations to a variety of responsible gambling organisations across multiple countries.
Our approach to supply chain management is designed to: CSR goes beyond responsible gaming and as a Group we actively encourage and Reduce risk: support our employees involvement within local communities.
In 2016, our staff contributed over 1,400 hours on a varied range of community projects including Develop mutually beneficial long-term business relationships: and homeless shelters, childrens orphanages, helping the elderly and animal shelters.
Deliver best value from our suppliers on a long-term basis.
In 2016, our employees were involved with homeless projects in Austria, Bulgaria Our procurement policy includes a Supplier Acknowledgement and and Gibraltar, while in Austria and London we also worked with a number of local Self-Certication Checklist, which requests information relating to: charities for the elderly.
Meanwhile, in Hyderabad, our employees have a long standing tradition and commitment of working closely with numerous charities, Financial strength to ensure long-term reliability: having nanced the building of clinics and extensive work with orphanages.
Ability to deliver enduring quality and value: Wildlife projects supported during the year included cleaning up a local beach in Gibraltar to help protect local marine life and the building of new enclosures for the Commitment to innovation and ability to help us develop new products, processes Wildlife Heritage Foundation.
and ways of working that will provide us with a commercial advantage: and The acquisition of bwin.
party signicantly increased the scale of our business and Commitment to a wider corporate responsibility agenda relating to the with our subsequent admission to the FTSE 250 Index, it is appropriate that we environment, labour employment standards, equal opportunities and evaluate our CSR policies.
In 2017 we intend to substantially increase our contribution to responsible gambling In return, we aim to operate to the highest professional standards, treating our charities organisations.
However, as mentioned above, we also believe we have suppliers in a fair and reasonable manner and settling invoices promptly.
a significant responsibility to contribute positively to the many communities in which we operate.
In total we have budgeted to more than double our financial commitment to our CSR programme in 2017.
In addition to a substantial increase in our financial support, we have also committed to expand our successful Pro Bono engagement programme to 15 locations from five currently.
Furthermore, we have doubled the number of hours individuals are able to contribute.
Last year employee participation in the Pro Bono scheme was around 20% and this year we are aiming to achieve at least 25%.
If successful, we expect to more than treble the number of hours of support given to our local communities.
The increased support and investment in community projects also enables us to expand the number of good causes that we work with.
In January of this year we Our objective is to help current welcomed on board FareShare.
and potential investors to have a greater understanding of both our FareShare redistributes surplus, in-date food to charities and community groups business model and the industrial across the UK, including nearly 200 in London.
Their food saves millions of pounds environment in which we operate.
for the voluntary sector and reaches people in genuine need in the communities where we live and work.
In addition to a financial contribution, employees of GVC will also be volunteering at FareShares Regional Centre in London.
6 1 8 1 1,400 hours contributed by our staff in 2016 on a varied range of community projects including homeless shelters, childrens orphanages, helping the elderly and animal shelters.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
