Governance continued 48 ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Provisions for legal and regulatory compliance How did the Audit Committee go about assessing The Directors keep abreast of all known or potential regulatory or legal claims theeffectiveness of the external audit process?
against the Group that may arise from the Groups operations.
The Directors receive The Audit Committee is committed to ensuring that the external audit process frequent updates from the Groups Head of Legal, Compliance & Secretariat and remains effective on a continuing basis.
In particular, throughout the year the external legal counsel.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the likelihood AuditCommittee paid specic attention to the following areas: of the outcomes of various claims lodged against the Group and or its Board members as disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements.
Reviewing that safeguards put in place by the incumbent auditor against independence threats are sufficient and comprehensive.
As there have been no material developments with the cases disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements, the Audit Committee is satisfied that no provisions Ensuring that the quality and transparency of communications with the external other than those outlined in note 20 to the financial statements, are necessary at auditors are timely, clear, concise and relevant and that any suggestions for this present time.
Should any of these cases develop materially during the course improvements or changes are constructive.
of 2017, the Audit Committee will consider if any provision needs to be made in respect of the relevant cases.
Exercising professional scepticism, including but not limited to, looking at contrary evidence, the reliability of evidence, the appropriateness and accuracy Taxation of management responses to queries, considering potential fraud and the During the year, the Board reviewed the Groups tax strategy and considered need for additional procedures and the willingness of the auditor to challenge whether it was aligned with the Groups commercial strategy, approach to corporate management assumptions.
governance, the attitude to risk and the Groups business models.
The Board also Considering if the quality of the audit engagement team is sufficient and reviewed external parameters, including the impact on the tax strategy of the changing tax environment.
The Board concluded that the adopted tax strategy is appropriate including the continuity of appropriate industry, sector and technical expertise including new areas of activity by the client and changes in regulation appropriate in a year of significant change for the Group following the acquisition of bwin.
party, supports the Groups business strategy whilst simultaneously addressing or professional standards and whether it has exercised sufficient objectivity to mitigate any independence and familiarity threats.
the risks associated with tax effectively.
Owing to the dynamic nature of the online gaming sector and the Groups business in particular, the Board has decided to Feedback is provided to the external auditor at every instance by the Audit review the Groups tax strategy and management and will meet with the Groups Committee and through one-to-one discussions between the Chairman of the Director of Tax at least once a year.
AuditCommittee and the audit rm partner.
Who are the external auditors and how long have What non-audit services did Grant Thornton they been appointed?
During the year ended 31 December 2016, Grant Thornton UK LLP was appointed The Audit Committee has established a policy regarding the appointment of external under an engagement letter to act as auditor to enable the Company to meet its auditors to perform non-audit services for the Group and keeps this under continual obligations to prepare financial statements in accordance with the Listing Rules.
review, receiving a report at each Audit Committee meeting.
This policy dictates Grant Thornton UK LLP were originally appointed in 2010 just after the Companys thatin the Companys financial year, the total fees for non-audit services provided by the external auditors, excluding non-audit fees for due diligence for acquisitions re-domiciliation from Luxembourg to the Isle of Man.
A member rm of the Grant Thornton network, Grant Thornton Lux S. A. previously held ofce as the Companys and other specic matters noted below, should not exceed 70% of the average of the total fees for audit services they provided in the preceding three year period.
Since their initial appointment, their re-appointment has In the year ended 31 December 2016, the total non-audit fees as a percentage been approved by shareholders each year at the AGM.
Shareholders approved ofthe audit fees paid to the external auditors was 12.8%.
there-appointment of the external auditors at the 2016 AGM, with 99.9% of the votes cast voted in favour of re-appointment.
A resolution will be proposed at In addition to their statutory duties, Grant Thornton LLP is also employed where, the2017 AGM to re-appoint Grant Thornton LLP as the external auditors.
as a result of their position as auditors or for their specic expertise, they either must, or the Audit Committee accepts they are best placed to, perform the work What is GVCs policy on putting the external audit in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder outto tender?
circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory lings and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
In such circumstances the Audit Committee will separately review The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that FTSE 350 companies the specic service requirements and consider any impact on objectivity and put their external audit out to tender at least once every ten years.
The EU Audit independence of the auditors and any appropriate safeguards to this.
As such the Regulation, effective across all Member States from the 17 June 2016, enforces Audit Committee believes it appropriate for these non-audit services to be excluded mandatory audit rm rotation after a period of maximum tenure, set at ten years.
from the 70% cap calculation set out above.
In the year ended 31 December 2016 The current external auditors have served the Company since 2008.
Taking into the total fees paid to the external auditors in respect of due diligence for acquisitions account the Financial Reporting Councils advice on companies transitioning to was 0.39m.
putting the external audit out for tender to comply with this recommendation The Company has also adopted a policy on external auditor independence to help and theEU Regulation and the timing of the audit partner rotation, the Board has ensure the independence of the current external auditors is not compromised.
decided on the recommendation from the Audit Committee to put the external audit out for tender in 2018.
Thereafter the external audit will be put out for tender at least once every ten years.
The Audit Committee have adopted an Auditor Rotation and Tendering Policy which follows the above mentioned recommendations and regulation.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
