49 Does GVC have an internal audit department How are risks to the business identied?
The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the Group and, on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee reviews the The Internal Audit & Risk Management IA function facilitates and advises on the effectiveness of the risk process.
Each business area is responsible for identifying, Groups risk process, for which the Companys Board is ultimately responsible.
assessing and managing the risks in their respective area along working within the The mission of the IA function is to provide independent, objective assurance parameters of IAs risk assurance guidance facilitating the process.
and consulting services designed to add and protect value by improving the IA held a series of meetings and workshops during 2016 to ascertain: Groups operations.
IA assists the Group to accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk i whether a risk had increased or decreased: management, control and governance processes.
ii whether a risk remained unchanged or had become obsolete: Through its work, IA provides assurance to the Board, through the Audit Committee that effective and efficient control processes are in place to identify and manage iii whether any new risks were now relevant, especially from recent key business events and changes: and business risks that may prevent the business from achieving its objectives.
The scope of this work includes: iv the probability of a risk materialising and its associated level of impact.
Providing assurance to the Board and executive management that effective Given the complexity of the Groups operations, the risk register remains a systems and controls are in place and are being operated to manage all significant central repository for management and the Directors to review and oversee risks within the financial and business systems operated within the Group.
Assisting the business in fullling its corporate governance responsibilities.
Risks identied are measured against a dened set of criteria, requiring the consideration of the likelihood of an occurrence and the associated potential clean Supporting operational management by providing best practice advice on internal controls, including practical recommendations to mitigate control weaknesses EBITDA impact to the Group.
The extent to which an event is likely to occur is scored from 1-4, 1 being remote i. e. very unlikely to occur and 4 being probable, where identied during the review process.
it has the potential to occur or has already happened.
The impact is measured on Promoting effective control at reasonable cost and assisting management a similar scale, where 1 is low, with limited damage to a minor stakeholder, and 4 generally in the pursuit of value for money eg by providing practical being severe, which causes substantial damage to the companys reputation with recommendations to improve the efficiency of the financial and business many key stakeholders.
The product of both scores gives rise to the residual risk processes operated by the business.
score that determines the relative importance of the individual risk.
Carry out ad-hoc investigations based on any allegations made through the This information is combined with a consolidated view of the business area risks.
Whistleblowing Policy or as requested or directed by the Audit Committee The top risks based on likelihood and impact are migrated onto a risk register, and or executive management.
which is reviewed periodically by the Groups senior executive management team, ahead of it being submitted to the Audit Committee for consideration and direction.
The sections below on risk illustrate how IA supports the business through driving In some instances key risks will be escalated to the Board for final decision, improvements to GVCs control environment and adding value in core business sometimes with a recommendation from the Audit Committee.
areas in the context of the Groups risk prole.
The Board, with the support of the Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the internal system of control, and is satisfied that it is robust and in accordance with best practice.
In doing so the Directors acknowledge that GVCs system of internal control can only reduce the probability that business risks might impede the Company in achieving its objectives, it cannot eliminate these risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
