PROVIDERS IMPACT OF CAPITAL e are a low-impact company, but we are not complacent and monitor he online gaming sector is a rapidly evolving industry, subject to our environmental performance by measuring the water and energy we continuous change in areas including regulation, technology and W consume, the amount of physical waste we produce and the amount of T competition.
Our objective is to help current and potential investors CO gas we produce through air travel.
We currently monitor these impacts from to have a greater understanding of both our business model and the 2 oursix main ofces and plan to roll out monitoring across our locations this year.
industrial environment in which we operate.
Key metrics show that: There is no set calendar that governs how we interact with our stakeholders, who include investors, lenders, politicians, regulators and business partners amongst A total of 3,554 air ights taken by employees producing an estimated others but we seek to communicate regularly through a variety of channels 865 metrictons of CO. 2 which include: Our highest energy consumption resulted from our eight data centres, which Providing shareholders and lenders with regular updates on both corporate and consumed 8.4 million KWh of electricity in total.
financial developments throughout the course of the financial year.
On average, each full-time employee in our six main ofces every month used: Regular meetings between our executive team and financial analysts, current as well as prospective investors, but with a focus around the publication of our half 289 KWh of electricity: year and full year results.
801 litres of water: and Investor and industry presentations, online webcasts, the publishing of financial produced 6.5kg of waste.
reports and analysts coverage, to name but a few, all of which are publicly available on our corporate website: www.
com Our approach to the environment and the community goes beyond our own business.
Our suppliers corporate responsibility agenda relating to the Using our regular interactions to gain a greater understanding of investors and environment is also assessed before we enter into contractual arrangements.
other stakeholders perceptions about our strategy, performance and prospects.
We believe that by aligning our interests we can make a contribution towards sustaining our environment.
3,554 ights taken by employees 8.4m KWh producing an estimated of electricity consumed 865 metric tons of CO. 2 across all eight of our data centres.
289m KWh used by each full-time employee in our six main ofces monthly.
6.5kg of waste produced by each full-time employee in our six main ofces monthly.
