EMPLOYEES he acquisition of bwin.
party transformed the KEY EMPLOYEE STATISTICS Engagement size and shape of the Groups workforce, taking With such large scale structural change, it is vital 2016 T the number of full-time employees from 463 that we keep our people well informed so they are to 2,400.
The first priority we set ourselves was to HEAD COUNT fully aware of our business objectives and how they create an organisation where a unied, dynamic, can help to deliver them.
We believe regular and Average number of pro forma employees 2016 2,554 entrepreneurial approach would enable our talented transparent communication is key to ensuring we have people to thrive.
Number of employees prior to acquisition an engaged and motivated workforce.
Channels we 31 January 2016 2,400 Having reviewed the structure of the enlarged group, utilise to do this include: a new Group-wide intranet, we identied a number of strengths to build on as updated on a daily basis: regular webcasts from the Number of employees as at 31 December 2016 2,338 well as challenges to address.
Whilst the business CEO and other members of the senior management Net change 2.5% we acquired contained a wealth of talented and team: physical town hall meetings in our ofce Appointments in 2016 709 experienced professionals, they were being hampered locations: monthly manager briefs, cascaded to all Voluntary attrition 2016 15.5% by an overly-complex management structure that was staff via their managers: as well as business-focused too process heavy.
This over-burdened individuals webinars and discussion forums.
Involuntary attrition 2016 15.5% with administration and limited their ability to innovate Redundancies in 2016 305 and focus on delivery to the customer.
As a result, Culture and values Total attrition 31.0% in our restructuring process we have sought to As part of our efforts to develop a unied, streamline ourprocesses to create a culture where Average length of service 3 Years, 11 months entrepreneurial culture, throughout the past year we entrepreneurism is encouraged and rewarded.
AGE BREAKDOWN commenced a company-wide exercise to identify AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 the core values that define us.
Workshops were held People Employees under 25 203 across all major ofce locations to discuss what type of attributes and qualities our staff value in themselves An unfortunate but inevitable consequence of any Employees 25 to 29 585 acquisition of the size we undertook, is the need to and what they expect in colleagues and in the Employees 30 to 49 1,494 workplace.
Having identied a longlist, we held a poll, identify and remove duplicate roles.
This is never an Employees 50 and over 56 easy task, but having determined the right organisation which more than 1,500 employees participated in, toselect the top five corporate values.
GENDER BREAKDOWN structure, we moved quickly to select the right people AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 for the right jobs in the right locations.
In total, this These are: restructuring process meant that 305 roles became Female 822 redundant in 2016.
Male 1,516 In addition to drawing on the skills from within the Ownership.
existing businesses, we also used the enlarged Collaboration.
Groups enhanced prole to recruit the very best talent from across the industry.
appointments of Shay Segev, as Chief Operations Recognition.
officer, Liron Snir as Chief Product officer and following the announcement of Richard Coopers We are now introducing a number of initiatives to decision to retire, Paul Miles as Chief Financial officer.
embed these values throughout our organisation, We also strengthened our management team with new to ensure that they are more than just a positive Heads of Investor Relations and Bingo as well as by sentiment but a fundamental part of how we operate lling senior roles within our product delivery teams.
Process 2016 Employee statistics Having built a management team with the skills and GVC is a highly diverse and culturally rich organisation experience to drive our business forward, we have with our workforce comprising 57 different nationalities taken significant steps to ensure we have the systems making it both an interesting as well as a challenging in place to enable them to ourish.
We have embarked place to work.
The transformation of the Group meant on a process to identify and harmonise employment that by the end of 2016 we had 2,338 employees.
policies and terms as well as best practice operations, across the Group.
Our future success depends upon the skills, knowledge and endeavours of our employees.
We have also revised our approach to reward, to We are committed to fostering and nurturing a ensure our remuneration and bonus scheme is more culture that enables people to learn, develop and closely aligned to meeting the business performance achieve, irrespective of their nationality or gender.
In order to reduce administrative burden, Life is fast-paced and highly demanding, but we have commissioned a new Enterprise Resource for those with the right skills and temperament, Planning ERP system, which will be implemented thereisgreat opportunity.
