Financial statements continued 74 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of This note deals with both the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements, together with a note identifying new accounting policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on various factors that are standards which will affect the Group.
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the GVC Holdings PLC is a company registered in the Isle of Man and was incorporated basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities on 5 January 2010.
It is the successor company of Gaming VC Holdings S. A. that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from acompany which had been incorporated in Luxembourg, and took the assets of these estimates.
Gaming VC Holdings S. A. on 21 May 2010 after formal approval by shareholders.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
2016 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as theGroup.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and 1.1 Statement of compliance future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
The Directors have reviewed the accounting policies used by the Group and consider them to be the most appropriate.
The accounting policies are consistent with the prior 1.2.
1 significant judgements year with the exception of revisions and amendments to IFRS issued by the IASB, In the application of the accounting policies, which are detailed in this note, the which are relevant to and effective for the annual period beginning 1 January 2016 Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about and those policies which have been adopted by the Group following the Acquisition the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from of bwin.
There was no material effect on current, prior or future periods arising other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical from the first-time application of these new requirements in respect of presentation, experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results recognition and measurement.
This is described more fully in note1.24.
may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 1.2 Basis of preparation inthe period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, The financial statements, which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current theConsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement and future periods.
The estimates and assumptions, which have a significant risk of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the ofcausing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Consolidated Statement of Cashows and related notes have been prepared within the next financial year, are discussed below.
under International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS and those parts of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 applicable 1.2.
1.1 Intangible assets tocompanies reporting under IFRS.
For all acquisitions, management has recognised separately identiable intangible The Directors have assessed the financial risks facing the business, and compared assets on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
These intangible assets have been valued based on expected future cashow projections from existing this risk assessment to the net current assets position and dividend policy.
The calculations of the value and estimated future economic life of the The Directors have also reviewed relationships with key suppliers and software assets involve, by the nature of the assets, significant judgement.
providers and are satisfied that the appropriate contracts and contingency plans are in place.
The Directors have prepared income statement and cashow forecasts to 1.2.
1.2 Impairment of goodwill and trademarks assess whether the Group has adequate resources for the foreseeable future and Determining whether goodwill and trademarks with an indefinite useful life are further details are disclosed in the viability statement.
Although the Group is showing impaired requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units.
net current liabilities at 31 December 2016 this will reverse upon the re-nancing The value-in-use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cashows of the Groups long-term debt which occurred subsequent to the reporting date see expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and select a suitable discount note 30.
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue rate in order to calculate present value.
Note 8.2 provides information on the in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The work to assess the existence of impairment indicators and, where applicable, The financial statements are presented in euros, rounded to the nearest 0.1m, toevaluate the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets was conducted andare prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception of those assets internally by management.
andliabilities carried at fair value.
The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis.
1.3 Receivables Management applies judgement in evaluating the recoverability of receivables Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a including balances with payment processors.
To the extent that the Board believes liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement receivables are not recoverable they have been provided for in these consolidated date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using financial statements.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market 1.2.
1.4 Progressive jackpots participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset Where a legal or constructive obligation exists, managements policy is to record or liability at the measurement date.
Fair value for measurement and or disclosure a provision.
In 2015, based on the history of jackpot pay outs managements purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, judgement was that no constructive obligation existed.
Following the acquisition except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, of bwin.
party management have re-assessed this judgement based on the history leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that of the enlarged Group indicating a constructive obligation exists hence a provision have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable is required.
valuein IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 75 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Where the Company has control over an investee, it is classied as a subsidiary.
The Company controls an investee if all three of the following elements are present: 1.2 Basis of preparation continued 1.2.
1 significant judgements continued Power over the investee: 1.2.
1.5 Share-based payments Accounting for share-based payments requires a degree of judgement over such Exposure or rights to variable returns from the investee: matters as dividend yield, timing of performance conditions being met, expected The ability of the Company to use its power to affect those variable returns.
volatility and the method in which those liabilities will be settled.
Further details on the assumptions made by management are disclosed in note 24.
Control is re-assessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate that there may be a change in any of the above elements of control.
1.6 Embedded derivatives The drawn-down Cerberus Loan contains embedded derivatives.
The interest Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identied rate on the loan is EURIBOR, subject to a oor of 1%, plus a margin of 11.5%.
separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of Based on recent guidance issued by IFRIC, management assess this oor to be the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and closely related to the host contract and therefore it has not been treated as an the non-controlling shareholders share of changes in equity since the date of the embedded derivative.
combination except where any non-controlling interests have been acquired by the Group.
At this point any share of gains or losses are transferred to the Groups In addition, the loan has been repaid early see note 30 within the first year of the retained earnings.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling loan.
The terms of the loan meant that if it was repaid in the first year, there would interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
be an additional make-whole premium payable.
If it were to be repaid before the expiry date, the payment of the exit fees would be brought forward but additional 1.3.
2 Investments in associates fees at the 12 month and 18 month date could be avoided.
These options for early An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant inuence and that repayment are considered to be non-closely related to the host contract and have is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
significant inuence is the been recognised separately.
The options have been grouped for the purposes of power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee evaluating the embedded derivative.
They have been valued based on the projected but is not control or joint control over those policies.
cashows and applying a probability weighting to the potential cash saving from The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the lower effective interest rates.
consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
party equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated statement The GVC Group has been identied as the acquirer of bwin.
party as it is the entity of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups nancing the acquisition through equity interests and debt, paying a premium for share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the assets of bwin.
In the combined entity, the Board is primarily composed the investment.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that of GVC management, with one Director of bwin.
party joining as a Non-executive associate are not recognised.
Additional losses are provided for, and a liability is Director, together with two other external appointments.
On acquisition and postrecognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive acquisition, bwin.
party does not have the ability to control the combined entity and obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
so has been accounted as the acquired party under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
1.8 Assets liabilities held for sale A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties Assets and liabilities held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control: that is, when the and fair value less associated costs of sale.
Management apply judgement in strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require determining when assets meet the criteria to be recognised as held for sale theunanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
andinevaluating the fair value less costs to sell.
The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity method 1.2.
Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are carried The recognition of provisions requires management to apply judgement in in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for postdetermining the likelihood of the outcome of legal proceedings as well as any other acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the joint venture, less circumstances that may cause a liability to fall due.
any impairment in the value of the investment.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest in that investment are not recognised.
Additional losses 1.3 Basis of consolidation are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group 1.3.
1 Subsidiaries has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the The Group financial statements consolidate those of the parent company and all of joint venture.
its subsidiaries as of 31 December 2016.
A list of principal subsidiaries is included within the parent company accounts.
4 Transactions eliminated on consolidation All transactions and balances between Group companies are eliminated on profit or loss and other comprehensive income of subsidiaries acquired or disposed consolidation, including unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group of during the year are recognised from the effective date of acquisition, or up to the companies.
Where unrealised losses on intra-group asset sales are reversed on effective date of disposal, as applicable.
The Group attributes total comprehensive consolidation, the underlying asset is also tested for impairment from a Group income or loss of subsidiaries between the owners of the parent and the nonperspective.
Amounts reported in the financial statements of subsidiaries have controlling interests based on their respective ownership interests.
been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Financial statements continued 76 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional 1.3 Basis of consolidation continued amounts for the terms for which the accounting is incomplete.
5 Business combinations amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see above, or additional Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
assets or liabilities are recognised, to reect new information obtained about facts The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets affected the amounts recognised at that date.
transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control 1.4 Foreign currency of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are generally recognised in profit or loss The functional currency of the Company, as well as the presentational currency of as incurred.
At the acquisition date, the identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed 1.4.
1 Foreign currency transactions are recognised at their fair value, except that: Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and assets or liabilities related to employee date are translated to the euro at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benets respectively: Consolidated Income Statement within operating costs note 3 and financial costs note 4.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical Liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements of the Group entered into the transaction.
to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in Income and expense items are translated using the exchange rates at the start of accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments at the acquisition date: and the relevant month, unless exchange rates uctuate signicantly, in which case the assets or disposal groups that are classied as held for sale in accordance spot rate for significant items is used.
with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are Exchange differences arising due to the functional currency of operations differing measured in accordance with that Standard.
from the presentational currency of the Group, if any, are recognised in other Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, comprehensive income, classied as equity and transferred to the Groups the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value translation reserve.
Such translation differences are reclassied to profit or loss of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the inthe period in which the operation is disposed of.
net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts 1.5 Property, plant and equipment of the identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of 1.5.
1 Owned assets the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation see the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held interest in the 1.5.
2 below and impairment losses see accounting policy 1.7.
Where parts of an acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted purchase gain.
for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes 1.5.
2 Depreciation assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the Depreciation is charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination.
Changes in The estimated useful lives are as follows: the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period Leasehold property: over the length of the lease adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from Fixtures and ttings: 3 years additional information obtained during the measurement period which cannot Plant and equipment: 3 years exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The residual value, if significant, is reassessed annually.
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classied.
Contingent consideration that is classied as equity is not re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration that is classied as an asset or a liability is re-measured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 77 1.
3 Subsequent expenditure 1.6 Intangible assets Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benets embodied in the specic asset to which 1.6.
This includes legal and similar expenditure incurred in registering brands Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost as established at and trade names, which is capitalised, all other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
the date of acquisition of the business less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to each of 1.6.
4 Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the Groups Cash-Generating Units CGU that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Goodwill and trademarks with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for A CGU to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or impairment at each reporting date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment Software licence agreements 2-15 years loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the carrying amount Capitalised development expenditure 3-5 years of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in profit or loss.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in Trademarks and trade names 12-15 years, or indefinite life subsequent periods.
Non-contractual customer relationships 4 years On disposal of the relevant CGU, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in 1.7 Impairment the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that 1.6.
2 Other intangible assets an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an accumulated amortisation see 1.6.
4 and impairment losses see accounting asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable policy1.7.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is determined for an individual asset.
If the asset does not generate cash The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at inows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, acquisition date.
The valuation methodology used for each type of identiable asset the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is category is detailed below: determined.
Discount rates reecting the asset specic risks and the time value Asset category Valuation methodology of money are used for the value in use calculation.
For goodwill and trademarks that have an indefinite useful life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each Consulting and magazine Income cost saving reporting date.
Software licence Income incremental value plus loss of profits 1.8 Dividends paid to holders of share capital Trademarks Relief from royalty Dividend distributions payable to equity shareholders are recognised through equity Trade name Relief from royalty reserves on the date the dividend is paid.
Non-contractual customer relationships Excess earnings 1.9 Employee benets Where, in the opinion of the Directors, the Groups expenditure in relation to 1.9.
1 Pension costs development of internet activities results in future economic benets, these costs In some jurisdictions in which the Group has employees, there are government or are capitalised within software licences and amortised over the useful economic private schemes into which the employing company or branch must make payments lifeof the asset.
on a dened contribution basis, the contributions are shown in the profit or loss account in the year.
Development costs are capitalised only when it is probable that future economic benefit will result from the project and the following criteria are met: 1.9.
2 Share-based payments The Group has share-based payment schemes which allow certain employees and The technical feasibility of the product has been ascertained: contractors to acquire shares of the Company.
The Group has accounted for these Adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to complete and under IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments.
sell or use the intangible asset: Share option schemes The Group can demonstrate how the intangible asset will generate future The fair value of options granted under the LTIP and MIP schemes will be economic benets and the ability to use or sell the intangible asset can recognised as a share-based payment expense with a corresponding increase in be demonstrated: equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair It is the intention of management to complete the intangible asset and use it or value of the options granted are measured using either a binomial or Monte Carlo sell it: and valuation model.
This valuation method takes into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense The development costs can be measured reliably.
is adjusted to reect the actual number of share options that vest and market conditions if applicable.
Financial statements continued 78 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 1.12 Net gaming revenue NGR 1.9 Employee benets continued NGR is the Groups alternate revenue measure and is revenue before the deduction of VAT.
2 Share-based payments continued Annual share bonus plan 1.13 Clean EBITDA The Group operates an annual share bonus plan and this gives the Company Clean EBITDA is the Groups alternative performance measure and is considered the option of rewarding employees and contractors in either cash or shares or a to be a key performance measure by the Directors.
It is dened as operating profit combination of both upon them achieving performance targets.
The type of reward adjusted for share-based payments, exceptional items, depreciation, amortisation, will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, where a share award is impairment of available for sale assets and changes in the fair value of derivative granted the fair value of the award is recognised as a cash-settled share-based financial instruments.
payment expense in the period that the employee or contractor earned the reward, with a corresponding liability recognised in the statement of financial position.
1.14 Financial expenses Financial expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings, calculated using the Cash cancelled options effective interest rate method which discounts the expected cashows over the life On occasion, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, vested share options of the financial instrument, and foreign exchange differences arising on loans and may be settled in cash, as opposed to issuing new shares.
to repurchase or cancel vested awards are accounted for with the fair value of the options cancelled, measured at the date of cancellation being taken 1.15 Exceptional items to retained earnings.
Also on cancellation an accelerated charge would be Exceptional items are those items the Group considers to be non-recurring or recognised immediately.
material in nature that may distort an understanding of financial performance or impair comparability.
Employers social security costs Employers social security costs due on the cash cancellation of options and the 1.16 Financial income employee gain on exercised options will be paid by the Company and shown within Financial income is interest income recognised in the income statement as it share-based payments.
accrues, using the effective interest method.
See note 24 for further details of the schemes.
1.17 Tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit 1.10 Provisions differs from profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outow of economic and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
benets will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cashows at a pre-tax rate Deferred tax is generally provided on the difference between the carrying amounts that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, calculated using the liability method appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
However, deferred tax is neither provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless 1.11 Revenue recognition the related transaction is a business combination or affects tax or accounting profit.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and Deferred tax on temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries comprises the following elements: is not provided if reversal of these temporary differences can be controlled by Casino: net win in respect of bets placed on casino games that have the Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the foreseeable future.
concluded in the year, stated net of promotional bonuses and In addition, tax losses available to be carried forward as well as other income tax amounts accrued or progressive prize pools.
credits to the Group are assessed for recognition as deferred tax assets.
Sportsbook: gains and losses in respect of bets placed on sporting events in the Deferred tax liabilities are provided in full, with no discounting.
Deferred tax assets year, stated net of promotional bonuses.
Open positions are carried are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the underlying deductible at fair market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation temporary differences will be able to be offset against future taxable income.
are recognised in revenue, as well as gains and losses realised on Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at tax rates that are positions that have closed.
expected to apply to their respective period of realisation, provided they are enacted Poker: net win in respect of rake for poker games that have concluded or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
intheyear, stated net of promotional bonuses.
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component of Bingo: net win in respect of bets placed on bingo games that have tax expense in the income statement, except where they relate to items that are concludedin the year, stated net of promotional bonuses.
charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or equity in which case the related deferred tax is also charged or credited directly to other comprehensive Where promotional bonuses apply to customers playing a variety of products income or equity as appropriate.
through the same wallet, bonuses are allocated pro-rata to the net win.
Revenue is also generated from foreign exchange commissions on customer deposits and withdrawals and account fees.
B2B income comprises the amounts receivable for services to other online gaming operators.
Other revenue consists primarily of revenue from third-party payment services and financial markets.
Revenue in respect of network service arrangements where the third party owns the relationship with the customer is the net commission invoiced.
Income is recognised when a right to consideration has been obtained through performance and reects contract activity during the year.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 79 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 1.19.4 Available for sale financial assets AFS 1.18 Segment reporting AFS financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or do not qualify for inclusion in any of the other categories of Following the acquisition of bwin.
party the Board reviewed and confirmed the Groups reportable segments in line with the requirements of IFRS 8 Operating financial assets.
The segments disclosed below are aligned with the reports the Groups AFS financial assets are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses are recognised Chief Executive reviewed during the year to make strategic decisions.
in other comprehensive income and reported within the AFS reserve within equity, Sports Labels: bwin, Sportingbet, Gamebookers and Superbahis.
except for interest and dividend income, impairment losses and foreign exchange differences on monetary assets, which are recognised in profit or loss.
Gaming Labels: partypoker, partycasino, Gioco Digitale, Cashcade, CasinoClub andUSAassets.
When the asset is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain B2B: provision of the technology platforms to external customers.
or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassied from the equity reserve to profit or loss.
Interest calculated using the effective interest method and Total core: The sum of sports labels, gaming labels and B2B together with dividends are recognised in profit or loss within finance income.
non-allocated costs for technology, operations, customer service, professional fees and travel and ofce costs.
For AFS equity investments impairment reversals are not recognised in profit Non-core: InterTrader and Kalixa.
and loss and any subsequent increase in fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Corporate: includes shared and corporate functions such as finance, legalandHR.
1.19.5 Assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if the carrying Variable costs and costs above Clean EBITDA are either directly attributed or amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing allocated to a segment.
Costs below Clean EBITDA are not reviewed on a segment use.
This condition is regarded as being met only when the sale is highly probable, basis and accordingly the analysis by segment is from revenue to Clean EBITDA management is committed to a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate sale in only.
In addition, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is not reviewed on its present condition and the sale is expected to be completed within one year from a segment basis.
These assets are measured at the lower of carrying value 1.19 Financial instruments and fair value less associated costs of sale except where the assets were previously Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group entity classied as available for sale, in which case they are carried at fair value.
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
Financial assets 1.19.6 Derivative financial instruments and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that Derivative financial instruments are accounted for at Fair Value Through profit are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial and Loss FVTPL.
Any movements in fair value are taken to the consolidated liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through income statement.
profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly 1.19.7 Impairment of financial assets attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the 1.19.1 Non-derivative financial instruments initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cashows of the Non-derivative financial instruments comprise trade and other receivables investment have been affected.
including balances with payment processors, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, customer liabilities, progressive prize pools, trade and other Objective evidence of impairment could include: payables and deferred consideration.
Subsequent to initial recognition, nonsignificant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Contingent consideration is measured at fair value.
Provisions for breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal impairment are made against financial assets if considered appropriate and any payments: or impairment is recognised in profit or loss.
The liability for inactive customer balances is derecognised when the obligation is extinguished with reference to player terms it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial and conditions.
Open positions on sports bets are carried within other payables.
re-organisation: or 1.19.2 Cash and cash equivalents the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank balances.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cashows.
1.19.3 Short-term investments Short-term investments are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
They are initially recognised at fair value, plus transaction costs directly attributable to their acquisition or issue.
They are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any provisions for impairment.
Financial statements continued 80 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 1.25 Standards in issue, not yet effective 1.20 Equity At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, certain new standards, and amendments to existing standards have been published by the IASB that are Equity comprises the following: not yet effective, and have not been adopted early by the Group.
Information on Share capital represents the nominal value of equity shares.
those expected to be relevant to the Groups financial statements is provided below.
Share premium represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of Management anticipates that all relevant pronouncements will be adopted in the consideration received for equity shares, net of expenses of the share issue.
Groups accounting policies for the first period beginning after the effective date of the pronouncement.
New standards, interpretations and amendments not either Retained earnings represents retained profits.
adopted or listed below are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups Merger reserve arose on the re-domiciliation of the Group from Luxembourg financial statements.
It consists of the pre-redomiciliation reserves of 1.25.1 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2014 the Luxembourg company plus the difference in the issued share capital The IASB has released IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2014, representing the 31,135,762share at 0.01 versus 31,135,762 shares at 1.24. completion of its project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition Translation reserve represents exchange differences on translation of foreign and Measurement.
The new standard introduces extensive changes to IAS 39s subsidiaries recognised in other comprehensive income.
guidance on the classication and measurement of financial assets and introduces a new expected credit loss model for the impairment of financial assets together 1.21 Finance leases with new guidance on the application of hedge accounting.
The new standard is Management applies judgement in considering the substance of a lease agreement required to be applied for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January and whether it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to 2018.
The Groups management are currently reviewing the various classications ownership of the leased asset.
Key factors considered include the length of the of financial instruments used by the Group but do not believe that any material lease term in relation to the economic life of the asset, the present value of the changes to the Groups results in future periods will arise as a result of any changes minimum lease payments in relation to the assets fair value, and whether the Group of classication.
The Groups treasury ofcials will consider the implications of this obtains ownership of the asset at the end of the lease term.
new standard when reviewing the hedging instruments it will utilise going forward.
The interest element of lease payments is charged to profit or loss, as finance costs 1.25.2 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers over the period of the lease.
IFRS 15 presents new requirements for the recognition of revenue, replacing 1.22 Operating leases IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts, and several revenueAll other leases other than finance leases are treated as operating leases.
The new standard establishes a control-based revenue the Group is a lessee, payments on operating lease agreements are recognised recognition model and provides additional guidance in many areas not covered as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Associated costs, such in detail under existing IFRSs, including how to account for arrangements with asmaintenance and insurance, are expensed as incurred.
multiple performance obligations, variable pricing, customer refund rights, supplier repurchase options, and other common complexities.
IFRS 15 is effective for 1.23 Assets classied as held for sale reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Groups management Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if the carrying do not consider that there will be any material impact on the Groups policy of amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing recognising revenue but will review the impact of the standard on the Groups 2017 use.
This condition is regarded as being met only when the sale is highly probable, results during that financial year.
management is committed to a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition and the sale is expected to be completed within one year from 1.25.3 IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 presents new requirements for the recognition, measurement, presentation the date of classication.
These assets are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less associated costs of sale except where the assets were previously and disclosure of leases, replacing IAS 17 Leases.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities classied as available for sale, in which case they are carried at fair value.
for all leases of over 12 months unless the underlying asset has a low value.
1.24 New and revised standards that are effective for annual periods Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance leases, with minimal beginning on or after 1 January 2016 changes from IAS 17.
The new standard applies to annual reporting periods 1.24.1 Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Groups management consider that the These amendments provide guidance on the accounting for acquisitions of interests adoption of this statement will likely result in an increase in the non-current assets in joint operations constituting a business.
The amendments require all such representing right-of-use assets and a corresponding increase in liabilities, both transactions to be accounted for using the principles on business combinations current and non-current on the balance sheet of the Group to the approximate value accounting in IFRS 3 Business Combinations and other IFRSs except where those of the assets contained within its operating lease disclosure in note 19 but will fully principles conict with IFRS 11.
Acquisitions of interests in joint ventures are not review the impact in the 2018 financial year.
impacted by this new guidance.
The amendments are effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
No impact arose from the adoption of these amendments to IFRS 11 on theseconsolidated financial statements.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
