PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 1.7 Going concern The loss for the year dealt with in the accounts of the Company was 117.9m 2015: loss of 19.4m.
The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis, as there are available profits within subsidiaries which, when paid as dividends, will offset the net current account.
The loss in the year relates mainly to the exceptional costs incurred in relation to the acquisition of bwin.
liabilities reported on the balance sheet.
Further, although the Company is showing net current liabilities at 31 December 2016 this will reverse upon the re-nancing 3.
INVESTMENTS oflong-term debt which occurred subsequent to the reporting date see note 12.
2016 2015 1.8 significant judgements m m In the application of the accounting policies, which are detailed in this note, the INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about At 1 January 84.0 148.5 the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical Additions 1,519.9 experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results Disposals 64.5 may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are At 31 December 1,603.9 84.0 reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised inthe period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current 2016 2015 and future periods.
The estimates and assumptions, which have a significant risk m m ofcausing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS within the next financial year, are discussed below.
1 Available for sale assets Impairment 0.7 1.2 Management apply judgement in evaluating the fair value of the available Disposal 1.9 for sale assets, and any impairment to the value which is recognised in the At 31 December 2.6 income statement.
2 Debtors Total investments 31 December 1,603.9 86.6 Management apply judgement in evaluating the recoverability of amounts owed by Group undertakings.
To the extent that the Board believes receivables not to be Acquisition of bwin.
party recovered they have been provided for in these consolidated financial statements.
On 1 February 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of bwin.
3 Share options digital entertainment plc bwin.
party, an online gaming company traded on Accounting for share option charges requires a degree of judgement over such the main market of the London Stock Exchange and listed on the Ofcial List matters as dividend yield, and expected volatility.
Further details on the assumptions PremiumSegment, for total consideration of 1,506.6m.
made by management are disclosed in note 24 of the Group financial statements.
4 Embedded derivatives The Company has further increased its investment of 13.1m in certain subsidiary The drawn-down Cerberus Loan contains embedded derivatives.
The interest companies as a consequence of the MIP option scheme see note 24 of the rate on the loan is EURIBOR, subject to a oor of 1%, plus a margin of 11.5%.
Based on recent guidance issued by IFRIC, management assess this oor to be Available for sale asset closely related to the host contract and therefore it has not been treated as an On 14 May 2014, the Group acquired a 15% stake in Betit Holdings Limited BHL embedded derivative.
from Betit Securities Limited BSL.
The consideration was for 3.5m, which In addition, the loan may be repaid early but if it is repaid in the first year, there is an was attributed to both the available for sale asset 5.2m and the option liability additional make-whole premium payable.
If it is repaid before the expiry date, the 1.7m taken on at acquisition.
The asset held for sale consideration, together with payment of the exit fees is brought forward but additional fees at the 12 month and professional fees incurred at the time, amounted to a total upfront cost of 5.4m 18 month date could be avoided.
These options for early repayment are considered which was impaired at 31 December 2015 to 2.6m.
This asset was impaired by to be non-closely related to the host contract and have been recognised separately.
0.7m prior to being sold during the year.
The options have been grouped for the purposes of evaluating the embedded derivative.
They have been valued based on the projected cashows and applying a probability weighting to the potential cash saving from lower effective interest rates.
5 Carrying value of investments Determining whether investments in subsidiaries are impaired requires an assessment of impairment indicators and, if indicators exist, and estimation of their recoverable amounts.
The calculation of recoverable amount requires the entity to estimate the future cashows expected to arise from the investments and select asuitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
