Governance continued 42 EFFECTIVENESS: GOVERNANCE CONTINUED How does the Board oversee financial reporting, Who are GVCs major shareholders?
As at 20 March 2016, GVCs major shareholders were: The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of % of Issued Share the Companys position and prospects.
This responsibility to present a fair, balanced Number Capital Total and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public Shareholder of Shares Voting Rights reports and reports to regulators, as well as to information required to be presented Standard Life Investment Holdings Limited 33,238,094 11.30 by statutory requirements.
The Board is also responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic The Capital Group of Companies, Inc. 14,652,094 4.98 objectives and, as a consequence, it has to maintain sound risk management and Janus Capital Management, LLC 11,522,047 3.92 internal control systems.
The Board has appointed a committee of independent Majedie Asset Management 10,504,658 3.57 Directors, the Audit Committee, to monitor these areas and report and make As at 20 March 2017, the Company had 294,199,190 shares in issue.
Each share carries the right to onevote.
Please see the Report of the Audit Committee Theabove shareholding information is based on the last notication made by the shareholder under the onpages 46 to 50.
How does the Board decide what Directors When is the Annual General Meeting AGM ?
Tuesday 20 June The Board is responsible for setting the levels of remuneration for the Executive A separate notice convening the AGM in Gibraltar will be dispatched to shareholders Directors and the senior executive team.
It is required to set remuneration at more than 20 working days before the AGM.
The AGM notice will list each item of levels sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to business, which will be dealt with by its own separate resolution.
All the Directors run the Company successfully, but should avoid paying more than is necessary will each stand for re-appointment and there will be separate resolution proposed for this purpose.
The Board has delegated these remuneration matters to a for each re-appointment.
committee of Non-executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee.
The Directors All Directors will be present at the AGM to answer questions from those Remuneration Report prepared by the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 51 to 63.
The fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are a matter for the Board shareholders that attend.
ona recommendation from the Executive Directors.
In accordance with best practice, the Chairman will exercise his discretion under thearticles and call for all resolutions to be decided on by a poll vote rather than a How does the Board engage with shareholders?
The voting results will be announced via a regulatory news service The Company keeps shareholders informed of business developments via its and published on GVCs corporate website shortly after the AGM closes.
AnnualReport, half-year statement and trading update announcements.
In addition, other price sensitive information is publicly disclosed via a regulatory news service.
Does the Company comply with the UK Corporate All these items of information are available on the Companys corporate website, Governance Code?
The website also contains other information about the Group Prior to listing on the Main Market, the Company chose not to comply with the andits business.
Code, because it was not required to as an AIM listed business.
After the Company Throughout the year the Chairman, CEO, CFO and Head of Investor Relations meet obtained a Standard Listing in February 2016 and in preparation for applying to step with shareholders on request or via organised investor roadshows supported by up to a Premium Listing, GVC worked to align its policies, procedures and practices GVCs brokers, as well as by attending and presenting at industry and investor to comply with the Codes recommendations.
Since GVC obtained a Premium Listing conferences.
During 2016, there were many such meetings, hosted in the UK, on the London Stock Exchange on 1 August2016 the Company has complied with mainland Europe and the US.
the Codes recommendations except in two respects: The Senior Independent Director is also available to shareholders if they have Until 23 March 2017 the Board had not appointed a Senior Independent Director.
concerns which contact through the Chairman, CEO or CFO fails to resolve Following the appointment today of Will Whitehorn the Company now complies orifcontact is inappropriate.
Major shareholders also have the opportunity to meet newly appointed As previously disclosed to shareholders and as set out in the Directors Non-executive Directors should they wish, but in practice our shareholders Remuneration Report on page 58, in certain termination scenarios the Chairman havenotto date taken up this offer.
and the CEO are entitled to two years notice in respect of remuneration and bonus payments.
These contractual obligations were entered into prior tothe Company obtaining a Premium Listing and the Code being applicable tothe Company.
Has the Company allotted or acquired any of its shares during 2016?
During the year, the Company issued a total of 231,991,749 new ordinary shares inrespect of the acquisition of bwin.
party, the satisfaction of various bwin.
party share incentive plans and the Companys share incentive plans.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
