Considerations by the Remuneration Committee of matters relating to Directors remunerationfor2016 The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and the senior management and for setting the remuneration packages for each Executive Director.
The Committee also has oversight of the remuneration policy for all employees.
The written Terms ofReference of the Committee are available on the Companys website and from the Company on request.
Number of meetings held during tenure Number of Members of the Committee during 2016 Independent during the year meetings attended 1 K Diacono Yes 4 4 2 L Feldman Yes 4 4 P Isola Yes 2 2 S Morana Yes 2 2 1.
Appointed Remuneration Committee Chairman on 1 February 2016.
On appointment as Chairman of the Board Lee Feldman was considered to be independent.
During the year, there were four scheduled Committee meetings.
The matters covered were: Reviewing share option plan rules.
Approval of share options awards.
Reviewing the 2016 employee cash bonus plan.
Satisfaction of the periodic TSR performance conditions attaching to the outstanding share option awards.
Setting the remuneration terms for the new Chief Financial officer.
Agreeing the exit terms for the outgoing Chief Financial officer.
Launching an internal consultation on the shape of a new remuneration policy for launch in 2018.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee met by telephone in December 2016 to grant awards under the MIP and approve the cash equivalent payments made to the Executive Directors and Chairman of the Board in respect of their exercised 2015 LTIP awards, which had vested on 2 August and2 November 2016.
None of the Committee members or attendees is involved in any Committee decisions from which they may nancially benefit personally other than as shareholders in the decisions made by the Committee and there are no conicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement inrunning the business.
The Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and HR Director may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee, but are not present when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
The Committee received external advice in 2016 from PwC in connection with remuneration matters including the provision of general guidance on market and best practice.
PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee reviewed the nature of all the services provided during the year by PwC and was satisfied that no conict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services.
The total fees paid to PwC in respect of services to the Committee during the year were 72,000.
Fees were determined based on the scope and nature of the projects undertaken for the Committee.
Implementation of the Remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2017 See page 53.
Shareholder voting This is the first year in which the Company has put forward resolutions on remuneration.
There are, therefore, no historic voting outcomes to disclose.
Karl Diacono Chairman, Remuneration Committee 23 March 2017
