Company financial statements continued 110 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.6 Financial instruments These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
A summary of the significant accounting policies are set out below, these policies Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
have been applied consistently to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities 1.1 Basis of preparation at fair value through profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value The financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis with of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
the exception of those assets and liabilities which are carried at fair value, Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or and in accordance with applicable Isle of Man law and United Kingdom financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately accounting standards.
As permitted under FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure 1.6.
1 Non-derivative financial instruments exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, Non-derivative financial instruments comprise debtors, loans and borrowings, business combinations, financial instruments, fair values, presentation of a cashow andtrade and other creditors.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised statement and certain related party transactions.
Where required, equivalent initially at fair value, plus, for instruments not at fair value through profit or loss, disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements.
any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the 1.2 Investments effective interest method.
Provisions for impairment are made against financial Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less amounts written off.
assets if considered appropriate and any impairment is recognised in profit or loss.
2 Available for Sale Financial Assets AFS The Company maintains its accounting records in euro and the balance sheet is AFS financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated expressed in this currency.
Income and charges are translated at the exchange rates to this category or do not qualify for inclusion in any of the other categories of ruling at the transaction date.
Fixed assets are valued using historical exchange financial assets.
Other current assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date.
AFS financial assets are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses are recognised in Realised exchange gains and losses and unrealised exchange losses are recognised the statement of total recognised gains and losses, except for interest and dividend in the profit and loss account.
income, impairment losses and foreign exchange differences on monetary assets, which are recognised in profit or loss.
1.4 Fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries are shown as xed assets in the Company balance When the asset is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative sheet, and are valued at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
gain or loss recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses is reclassied to profit or loss.
Interest calculated using the effective interest method 1.5 Share-based payments and dividends are recognised in profit or loss within finance income.
The Group has share based payment schemes which allow certain employees and contractors to acquire shares of the Company.
The Group has accounted for For AFS equity investments impairment reversals are not recognised in profit loss these under IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
As the related services are received by and any subsequent increase in fair value is recognised in the statement of total subsidiary entities, the Company accounts for these as a capital contribution made recognised gains and losses.
3 Derivative financial instruments Share option schemes Derivative financial instruments are accounted for at fair value through profit and The fair value of options granted under the LTIP and MIP schemes will be loss FVTPL.
The options associated with the Companys investment in BHL recognised as an share based payment expense with a corresponding increase in were considered derivative financial instruments and carried at their fair value equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during andre-measured at each reporting date.
Any movements in fair value are taken which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair tothe profit and loss account.
value of the options granted are measured using either a binomial or Monte Carlo 1.6.
4 Impairment of financial assets valuation model.
This valuation method takes into account the terms and conditions Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense reporting period.
Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is is adjusted to reect the actual number of share options that vest and market objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the conditions if applicable.
initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cashows of the Cash cancelled options investment have been affected.
On occasion, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, vested share options Objective evidence of impairment could include: may be settled in cash, as opposed to issuing new shares.
Payments made to repurchase or cancel vested awards are accounted for with the fair value significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or of the options cancelled, measured at the date of cancellation being taken to retained earnings.
Also on cancellation an accelerated charge would be breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal recognised immediately.
payments: or Employers social security costs it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial Employers social security costs due on the cash cancellation of options and the re-organisation: or employee gain on exercised options will be paid by the Company and shown within the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because share-based payments.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
