Reward scenarios The charts below show an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by Executives Directors under the Policy set out in this report.
KENNETH ALEXANDER CEO RICHARD COOPER CFO 000 000 800 800 734 734 734 Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration 600 600 406 406 406 400 400 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 200 200 0 0 Minimum Mid-point Maximum Minimum Mid-point Maximum Assumptions used in determining the level of pay-out under given scenarios are as follows: Element Minimum On-Target Maximum FIXED ELEMENTS Base salary for FY 2017 Benets paid for FY 2016 private medical insurance and life assurance and accommodation allowances As set out in above the Remuneration Policy to be approved at the 2017 AGM does not contain any incentive arrangements due to the legacy option grants that were put in place as part of the acquisition of bwin.
As such the reward scenarios include only those elements included in the Remuneration Policy going forward.
Approach to recruitment and promotions The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table above.
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate with the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
In setting the remuneration for new recruits, the Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments, as well as giving consideration for the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy SALARY, BENEFITS These will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
ANDPENSION In instances where the new executive is relocated from one work location to another, the Company will provide compensation to reect the cost of relocation for the Executive in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from their home location in accordance with its normal relocation package for employees.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but may take into consideration any cost of living differences: housing allowance: and schooling in accordance with the Companys normal relocation package for employees.
BUY OUT OF Where the Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment justifies the provision of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will INCENTIVES FORFEITED be forfeited on cessation of an Executive Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: ON CESSATION OF the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment: EMPLOYMENT the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value : The Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the Policy set out above will apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the employee.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-executive Directors.
