55 PART C DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the report contains details of the Directors Remuneration Policy that will govern the Companys future remuneration payments and will take effect from the date of the AGM.
The Committee is responsible for establishing the policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible for setting the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
Awards granted prior to this first vote on Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM will be honoured.
A binding resolution to approve this Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 20 June 2017.
Executive Director Remuneration Policy As set out in the Annual Statement, for the 2017 Remuneration Policy the Committee is not proposing any ongoing incentive arrangements.
This will be reviewed during the 2017 financial year with a revised policy presented to shareholders at the 2018 AGM following the shareholder consultation process in 2017.
For 2017, the legacy incentive arrangements, entered into prior to the date of the report will continue to operate.
When setting Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee has endeavoured to ensure that all Directors are provided with an appropriate remuneration framework to encourage enhanced performance and that they are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
Performance Element and targets and strategic link Operation Maximum recovery provisions BASIC SALARY To provide competitive An Executive Directors basic salary is set on appointment and reviewed The Committee ensures that maximum salary levels are A broad assessment xed remuneration that annually or when there is a change in position or responsibility.
positioned in line with companies of a similar size to GVC and of individual and will attract and retain validated against other companies in the e-gaming industry, business performance When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Committee considers: appropriate talent.
sothat they are competitive against the market.
is used as partofthe remuneration practices within the group: salaryreview.
Reects an individuals The Committee intends to review the comparator each the general performance of the group: responsibilities, year and may add or remove companies from the group as No recovery experience and role.
salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the comparator it considers appropriate.
Any changes to the comparator provisionsapply.
group used for remuneration benchmarking whenthe Committee group will be set out in the section headed Implementation determines it is appropriate to carry outabenchmarking exercise : ofRemuneration Policy, in the following financial year.
any change in scope, role and responsibilities: In general salary increases for Executive Directors will be inline with the increase for employees.
the experience of the relevant director: and The Company will set out in the section headed the economic environment.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, financial year, the salaries for that year for each of the have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become Executive Directors.
In such cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the general rises for employees until the target positioning is achieved.
BENEFITS To provide competitive The Executive Directors receive private health insurance, life insurance The maximum is the cost of providing the relevant benets No performance or benets and to attract andaccommodation allowances.
recovery provisions and retain high calibre applicable.
The Committee recognises the need to maintain suitable exibility employees.
in thebenets provided to ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Group strategy.
Additional benets may therefore be offered such as relocation allowanceson recruitment.
PENSION To provide an opportunity The Company does not currently have a separate pension arrangement The Executive Directors do not currently receive a pension.
No performance or for retirement planning.
It does however provide the opportunity for all recovery provisions employees to participate in a Company-provided pension in line with applicable.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES No performance or To provide compensation Non-executive Directors are paid an annual fee and the Audit Committee The fees for Non-executive Directors and the Chairman are recovery provisions that attracts high calibre Chairman receives an additional fee for chairing the AuditCommittee.
broadly set at a competitive level against the comparator group.
individuals and reects TheCompany may pay additional fees for chairing a Board Committee In general the level of fee increase for the Non-executive their experience and if this is deemed appropriate in specic circumstances.
There are no Directors and the Chairman will be set taking account of knowledge.
additional fees for chairing or being amember of a committee.
anychange in responsibility and the general rise in salaries Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in the comparator across employees.
group used to review salaries paid to the Executive Directors.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman do not participate in any Non-executive Directors and Chairman and may settle any tax variable remuneration or benets arrangements.
incurred in relation to these.
Remuneration report continued 56 REMUNERATION: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PART C DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Other contractual entitlements As detailed in the at a glance section, upon appointment, as part of a market-competitive remuneration package, the incoming CFO was offered a bonus opportunity for the 2017 financial year.
The maximum opportunity available is 100% of base salary.
The performance measures, weightings and targets will be determined by the Committee.
Further details are set out on page 55.
No other Executive Directors are eligible for a bonus.
Discretion within the Directors Remuneration Policy The Committee has discretion in several areas of Policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend the Remuneration Policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
Comparison with other employees All employees receive base salary, benets and may contribute into a Group-provided pension where applicable.
For employees below Board level, GVC operates a discretionary bonus arrangement with opportunity levels linked to seniority and role.
In addition a number of key senior employees receive share options under a Management Incentive Plan MIP the terms of which are the same as for the legacy awards set out below.
Any differences in an individuals reward package is reective of an individuals location, seniority and level of responsibility see page 59 for further details on approach.
Legacy awards The Committee reserves the right to honour any historic awards that were granted under any previous share schemes operated by the Company but remain outstanding, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above, where the terms of the payment or award were agreed before the new Policy came into effect.
Details of these awards are set out below and also in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 60.
It should be noted that the 2015 LTIP was separately approved by shareholders with a strong level of support as part of the acquisition of bwin.
Date of Number of shares Exercise Vesting Final grant under Option price period vesting date K Alexander 2 February 2016 8,798,075 422p 2 years 6 months 2 August 2018 R Cooper 2 February 2016 4,399,037 422p 2 years 6 months 2 August 2018 L Feldman 2 February 2016 4,399,037 467p 2 years 6 months 2 August 2018 N Teufelberger 2 February 2016 200,000 422p 2 years 6 months 2 August 2018 P Miles TBC 2017 350,000 422p 2 years 6 months 2 August 2018 Options will vest, subject to the satisfaction of a Performance Condition, one ninth six months after the date of grant, with one ninth vesting in each subsequent quarter.
In order to vest, the total shareholder return TSR of the Company must rank at median or above against the FTSE 250.
Each ninth of the Shares subject to the Option will have its TSR condition reviewed from the date of grant until the relevant vesting date.
To the extent the TSR condition is not met at that time then it shall be tested in the next quarter and at the end of the 30-month vesting.
The options are entitled to a dividend equivalent and are exercisable up to ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise price of 4.22 in respect of the awards made to Kenneth Alexander, Richard Cooper and Norbert Teufelberger was set out in the Companys November 2015 prospectus.
Due to certain limitations associated with the grant of options to individuals subject to US federal income taxes, Lee Feldmans option was granted at a higher exercise price which represents the market value of the Shares as of the date at which the scheme to acquire bwin.
In order to compensate Lee Feldman for the higher exercise price, the Company agreed to pay him a cash bonus of 1,979,567 being 4.67 less 4.22 multiplied by 4,399,037.
This cash bonus is to be paid over the 30-month vesting period of his option, but only uponvesting and satisfaction of the TSR performance condition attaching to the options.
Paul Miles joined the Company on 20 February 2017 and was appointed CFO on 28 February 2017.
It is the Companys intention to grant the share option set out in the table above as soon as possible: however, as the Company has been in a closed period to the date of this report the grant has not yet been made.
The Committee proposes granting this option under the exemption to Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 on the basis the only participant is adirector and the arrangement is established specically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of the new CFO.
The terms of this arrangement were agreed as part of the remuneration negotiations with the new CFO: reect the Committees desire to incentivise the new CFO for the period to August 2018 on the same terms as the MIP and 2015 LTIP participants: and recognise that due to a technical restriction in the legacy plan rules the option could not be made under these plans.
The rules governing this option will be identical to the rules of the GVC 2016 MIP except in respect ofthe latters eligibility provision.
This option will vest one-third on the date of grant.
Thereafter, subject to the satisfaction of the TSR performance condition described above, one ninth will vest on 2 May 2017 and then one-ninth shall vest each subsequent quarter, so that all of the Shares subject to this option shall have vested by 2 August 2018, in line with the vesting schedule for the awards granted to senior executives under the MIP and to the Directors under the2015 LTIP.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
