Remuneration report continued 58 REMUNERATION: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PART C DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED 4.
Service contracts and letters of appointment The Companys policy is that Executive Directors have rolling contracts which are terminable by either party giving the other 12 months notice.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment.
With the exception of the Chairman of the Board, each Non-executive Director is subject to an initial three year term except for Norbert Teufelberger who has an initial term of two years subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM.
All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Companys registered ofce and at the AGM.
Director Date appointed Arrangement Notice period unexpired term K Alexander February 2007 Service contract 12 months P Miles 28 February 2017 Service contract 12 months L Feldman December 2004 Letter of appointment 12 months K Diacono December 2008 Letter of appointment Remaining period N Teufelberger 2 February 2016 Letter of appointment: 2 year period Remaining period S Morana 2 February 2016 Letter of appointment: 3 year period Remaining period P Isola 2 February 2016 Letter of appointment: 3 year period Remaining period W Whitehorn 23 March 2017 Letter of appointment: 3 year period Remaining period The Board allows Executive Directors to accept appropriate outside commercial Non-executive Director appointments provided the aggregate commitment is compatible with their duties as Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors concerned may retain fees paid for these services, which will be subject to approval by the Board.
Payment for loss of ofce When determining any loss of ofce payment for a departing Director, the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reect the circumstances in place at the time.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way ofsettlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an executive directors ofce or employment.
The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Executive Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
A summary of the main contractual terms is set out below: Treatment on cessation of employment Treatment on change of control SALARY, BENEFITS AND PENSION These will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment in lieu.
SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS In the event that either of the Chairman or CEO is given notice of termination without cause or resigns OF EXISTING CONTACTS FOR foragood reason then the executive director shall be entitled to: KALEXANDER AND L FELDMAN a payment equivalent to two years salary fees and bonus 2015 being the reference year : any unpaid bonus for the prior completed bonus year: a pro-rata bonus for the current bonus year being the average of the preceding 12 months : and maximum discretions being exercised under the 2015 LTIP and any successor plans.
SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS For good leavers, unvested awards will vest on the normal vesting date subject to: In the event of a takeover, a scheme of RELATINGTO LEGACY AWARDS arrangement or voluntary winding up i t he extent any applicable performance targets have been satisfied at the end of the normal of GVC, all awards may be exercised performance period: and for aperiod of one month from the date ii p ro-rating to reect the period of time between grant and cessation of employment as a proportion the participants are notied of such ofthevesting period that has elapsed.
event or the change of control occurs.
The Committee has the discretion to determine that the end of the performance period is the date of The Performance Condition shall apply cessation and whether to pro-rate the number of vested awards to reect the vesting period completed.
to any unvested award on a change A good leaver is dened as a participant ceasing to be in employment by reason of injury, ill-health, of control, unless the Remuneration disability, redundancy, retirement, the company employing the participant ceasing to be a member of the Committee determines otherwise.
Group, the participants employing business being transferred to a person who is not a Group Member, orany other reason at the Committees discretion.
If a participant dies before his award vests, the award shall vest as soon as practicable after death and shall be pro-rated for time elapsed and applicable performance targets.
The personal representatives may then exercise the award in the 12 months following death, after which it will lapse.
Anyone who is not a good leaver will be a bad leaver.
Bad leavers will forfeit allvested and unvested awards.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016
