Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 Company Organisation At 31 January 2016, the Companys ordinary and Investment Objective shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange and Euronext Amsterdam by HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited NYSE Euronext under the symbol HVPE.
the Company or HVPE is a closed-end At 31 January 2016, there were 79,862,486 investment company registered with the ordinary shares issued and outstanding.
Registrar of Companies in Guernsey under The ordinary shares are entitled to the income The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and and increases and decreases in the net asset the Netherlands Authority for the Financial value NAV of the Company, and to any Markets AFM.
The Companys registered office dividends declared and paid, and have full is Ground Floor, Dorey Court, Admiral Park, voting rights.
Dividends may be declared by St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 2HT.
The Company the Board of Directors and paid from available was incorporated and registered in Guernsey assets subject to the directors being satisfied on 18 October 2007.
HVPE is designed to offer that the Company will, after payment of the shareholders long-term capital appreciation dividend, satisfy a statutory solvency test.
by investing in a diversified portfolio of private Dividends will be paid to shareholders pro equity investments.
The Company invests in rata to their shareholdings.
private equity through private equity funds and may make co-investments or other opporThe ordinary shareholders must approve any tunistic investments.
The Company is managed amendment to the memorandum and articles by HarbourVest Advisers L. P. the Investment of incorporation.
The approval of 75% of the Manager, an affiliate of HarbourVest Partners, ordinary shares is required in respect of any LLC HarbourVest, a private equity fund-ofchanges that are administrative in nature, any funds manager.
The Company is intended to material change from the investment strategy invest in and alongside existing and newlyand or investment objective of the Company, formed HarbourVest funds.
HarbourVest is a or any change to the terms of the investment global private equity fund-of-funds manager and management agreement.
typically invests capital in primary partnerships, There is no minimum statutory capital secondary investments, and direct investments requirement under Guernsey law.
across vintage years, geographies, industries, and strategies.
Investment Manager, Company Operations of the Company commenced on Secretary, and Administrator 6 December 2007, following the initial global The directors have delegated certain day-to-day offering of the Class A ordinary shares.
operations of the Company to the Investment Manager and the Company Secretary and Fund Share Capital Administrator, under advice to the directors, On 9 September 2015, HVPEs ordinary shares pursuant to service agreements with those formerly the Class A ordinary shares were adparties.
The Investment Manager is responsible mitted to the Main Market of the London Stock for, among other things, selecting, acquiring, Exchange.
The Companys market quote on the and disposing of the Companys investments, London Stock Exchange has been redenomicarrying out financing, cash management, and nated into Sterling.
There has been no change risk management activities, providing investment to the legal form or nature of the shares as a advisory services, including with respect to result of the redenomination of the market quote HVPE`s investment policies and procedures, and and the HVPEs listing on Euronext Amsterdam arranging for personnel and support staff of the is not affected.
The 101 Class B shares were Investment Manager to assist in the  and cancelled.
The Company tive and executive functions of the Company.
incurred non-recurring expenses of $1,738,311 related to the listing which are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the twelve months ended 31 January 2016.
