Disclosures INVESTMENTS By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties The companies represented within this report because they relate to events, and depend on are provided for illustrative purposes only, as circumstances, that may or may not occur in example portfolio holdings.
There are over the future.
Forward-looking statements are not 6,900 individual companies in the HVPE guarantees of future performance.
Any forwardportfolio, with no one company comprising looking statements are only made as at the date more than 1.6% of the entire portfolio.
of this document, and the Investment Manager The deal summaries, general partners managers, neither intends nor assumes any obligation to and or companies shown within the report are update forward-looking statements set forth in intended for illustrative purposes only.
While they this document whether as a result of new informay represent an actual investment or relationship mation, future events, or otherwise, except as in the HVPE portfolio, there is no guarantee required by law or other applicable regulation.
they will remain in the portfolio in the future.
In light of these risks, uncertainties, and Past performance is no guarantee of future assumptions, the events described by any returns.
such forward-looking statements might not occur.
The Investment Manager qualifies any FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS and all of its forward-looking statements by This report contains certain forward-looking these cautionary factors.
Please keep this cautionary note in mind Forward-looking statements relate to expecwhile reading this report.
tations, beliefs, projections, future plans and Some of the factors that could cause actual strategies, anticipated events or trends and results to vary from those expressed in similar expressions concerning matters that forward-looking statements include, but are not historical facts.
In some cases, forare not limited to: ward-looking statements can be identified by the factors described in this report: terms such as anticipate, believe, could, the rate at which HVPE deploys its capital estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, in investments and achieves expected potential, should, will, and would, or rates of return: the negative of those terms or other comparable HarbourVests ability to execute its terminology.
The forward-looking statements investment strategy, including through are based on the Investment Managers the identification of a sufficient number beliefs, assumptions, and expectations of future of appropriate investments: performance and market developments, taking the ability of third-party managers of into account all information currently available.
funds in which the HarbourVest funds These beliefs, assumptions, and expectaare invested and of funds in which the tions can change as a result of many possible Company may invest through parallel events or factors, not all of which are known investments to execute their own strategies or are within the Investment Managers control.
and achieve intended returns: If a change occurs, the Companys business, the continuation of the Investment financial condition, liquidity, and results of Manager as manager of the Companys operations may vary materially from those investments, the continued affiliation expressed in forward-looking statements.
with HarbourVest of its key investment professionals, and the continued willingness of HarbourVest to sponsor the formation of and capital raising by, and to manage, new private equity funds: 98 HVPE 2016 Annual Report Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures HVPEs financial condition and liquidity, including its ability to access or obtain new sources of financing at attractive rates in order to fund short-term liquidity needs in accordance with the investment strategy and commitment policy: changes in the values of, or returns on, investments that the Company makes: changes in financial markets, interest rates or industry, general economic or political conditions: and the general volatility of the capital markets and the market price of HVPEs shares.
PUBLICATION AND CALCULATION OF NET ASSET VALUE The NAV of the Company is equal to the value of its total assets less its total liabilities.
The NAV per share of each class is calculated by dividing the net asset value of the relevant class account by the number of shares of the relevant class in issue on that day.
The Company intends to publish the estimated NAV per share and the NAV per share for the Ordinary shares as calculated, monthly in arrears, as at each month-end, generally within 15 days.
CERTAIN INFORMATION HVPE is subject to the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act Wet op het financieel toezicht, FMSA and is registered with the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets as a closedend investment company pursuant to section 1:107 of the FMSA.
It is also authorised by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission as an authorised closed-ended investment scheme under the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987 the POI Law.
HVPE is subject to certain ongoing requirements under the FMSA and POI Law and certain rules promulgated thereunder relating to the disclosure of certain information to investors, including the publication of annual and semi-annual financial statements.
