Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures The Board implemented a move to the Main STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS Market of the London Stock Exchange to RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT appeal to a wider variety of shareholders and OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to increase the liquidity of the Companys The directors are required to prepare financial shares.
In addition, the Board continues to statements for each financial year which give monitor the discount to NAV and will consider a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, appropriate solutions to address any ongoing financial position and profit or loss of the or substantial discount to NAV.
Company in accordance with U. S. GAAP at the end of the financial year and of the gain FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT or loss for that period.
In preparing those finanThe Company is wholly funded from equity cial statements, the directors are required to: balances, comprising issued ordinary share Select suitable accounting policies and capital as detailed in Note 1 to the financial apply them consistently: statements and retained earnings.
The Company Make judgments and estimates that are has access to borrowings pursuant to the reasonable and prudent: credit facility of up to $500 million.
The Board State whether applicable accounting does not intend to have aggregate leverage standards have been followed subject to outstanding at the Company level at any any material departures disclosed and time in excess of 20% of Company NAV explained in the financial statements: and other than in respect of borrowings for Prepare the financial statements on cash management purposes, which may the going concern basis unless it is be held for extended periods of time.
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Companys financial risk management objectives and policies are outlined in the The directors are responsible for keeping proper Audit Committee report beginning on accounting records which disclose with reasonpage 72 and the Risk Review section of this able accuracy at any time the financial position report beginning on page 67.
The Companys of the Company and to enable them to ensure policy on hedging is considered under NAV that the financial statements have been properly risks in the Principal Risks section of this prepared in accordance with The Companies report beginning on page 67.
Guernsey Law, 2008, the requirements of NYSE Euronext and the London Stock The Investment Manager and the Directors Exchange, and the applicable regulations ensure that all investment activity is performed under Dutch law.
They are also responsible in accordance with the investment guidelines.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company The Companys investment activities expose and hence for taking reasonable steps for it to various types of risks that are associated the prevention and detection of fraud and with the financial instruments and markets other irregularities.
Risk is inherent in the Companys activities and it is managed The directors confirm that, in their opinion, through a process of ongoing identification, the Annual Report and accompanying measurement and monitoring.
The financial Audited Consolidated Financial Statements are risks to which the Company is exposed fair, balanced, and understandable and provide include price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk the information necessary for shareholders to and cash flow risk and these risks are exassess the Companys position and perforplained in greater detail in the Principal Risks mance, business model and strategy, and the section of this report beginning on page 67. management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
