Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor.
A resolution The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness proposing its reappointment will be put to of the external audit process during the year, holders of Ordinary Shares at the Annual considering performance, objectivity, indepenGeneral Meeting.
dence and relevant experience, and concluded that Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as the TERMS OF ENGAGEMENT Companys auditor should be continued.
The Audit Committee reviewed the audit scope The Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, and fee proposal set out by the auditors in their have been appointed to the Company since audit planning report dated 8 October 2015 2007.
The Companys auditors performed an and discussed the same with the auditors at an audit of the Companys financial statements in Audit Committee meeting on 15 October 2015. accordance with applicable law, U. S. Generally The Audit Committee considered the proposed Accepted Auditing Standards, and International fee of $135,400 for audit services related to the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Having been audit approach remained unchanged relative satisfied by the scope of the engagement letter to the prior year and the Audit Committee and fee proposal, the Committee recommended was informed that a majority of the audit field to the Board to approve the fee proposal and work would be performed by Ernst & Young letter of engagement.
The Auditor provided in Boston, United States, under the direction non audit services to the Company in the year and supervision of Ernst & Young LLP.
under review in connection with the Companys move to the Main Market of the London Stock AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE Exchange and received a fee of 62,500 for The Audit Committee understands the imthis work.
In addition, there were non-audit portance of auditor independence and during fees of $105,500, being reimbursements to the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the HarbourVest Partners, LLC, in relation to tax independence and objectivity of the Comservices provided by the independent auditors panys auditor, Ernst & Young LLP.
The Audit for the year ended 31 January 2016.
Committee received a report from the external auditor describing its independence, controls FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND and current practices to safeguard and maintain SIGNIFICANT REPORTING MATTERS auditor independence.
The auditor received a As part of the 31 January 2016 year end audit, fee in connection with the verification of certain the Audit Committee reviewed and discussed financial information included in the Circular the most relevant issues for the Company and published on 24 July 2015 and in connection received a report from the auditors.
with tax reporting services supplied to the The following sections discuss the assessments Company.
No other non-audit services were made by the Audit Committee during the year.
INVESTMENT VALUATIONS AUDITOR TENDER The Audit Committee reviews the monthly The Audit Committee advised in last years reNAV statements issued by the Company prior port that it would be formulating a policy in to release and, if appropriate, challenges the the next financial year with a view to being able investment methodologies used by the Investto follow FRC guidance, which provides for an ment Manager when meeting with the operaudit tender to be carried out every ten years.
ational teams as discussed below.
The Audit As a result of this guidance, the Audit CommitCommittee has satisfied itself that the valuation tee will be commencing an audit tender process techniques are accurate and appropriate for the during 2017 in respect of the audit of the Companys investments and consistent with the Companys financial statements for the year requirements of U. S. GAAP.
