NOTE 8 Publication and Calculation NOTE 10 Indemnifications of Net Asset Value General Indemnifications The NAV of the Company is equal to the value In the normal course of business, the Company of its total assets less its total liabilities.
The NAV may enter into contracts that contain a variety per share is calculated by dividing the net asset of representations and warranties and which value by the number of shares in issue on that day.
The Company publishes the NAV per share of the The Companys maximum exposure under Ordinary shares as calculated, monthly in arrears, these arrangements is unknown, as this would at each month-end, generally within 15 days.
involve future claims that may be made against the Company that have not yet occurred.
NOTE 9 Related Party Transactions Based on the prior experience of the Investment The shareholders of HVGPE Holdings Limited Manager, the Company expects the risk of loss are members of HarbourVest Partners, LLC, under these indemnifications to be remote.
and are the partners or members of the GenInvestment Manager Indemnifications eral Partner entities of each of the HarbourVest funds in which the Company owns an interest.
Consistent with standard business practices in the normal course of business, the Company Other amounts payable to HarbourVest Advisers has provided general indemnifications to the L. P. of $353,913 represent expenses Investment Manager, any affiliate of the Investment of the Company incurred in the ordinary course Manager and any person acting on behalf of of business, which have been paid by and are the Investment Manager or such affiliate when reimbursable to HarbourVest Advisers L. P. at they act in good faith, in the best interest of the 31 January 2016.
The Company is unable to develop HarbourVest fund-of-funds invest in partnerships an estimate of the maximum potential amount managed by Sofinnova Partners, of which of future payments that could potentially result Director Jean-Bernard Schmidt is a former from any hypothetical future claim, but expects Managing Partner.
the risk of having to make any payments under these general business indemnifications to Board-related expenses, primarily compensation, be remote.
of $653,924 were incurred during the year ended 31 January 2016.
Directors and Officers Indemnifications Two of the directors, Andrew Moore and Keith The Companys articles of incorporation provide Corbin, were also directors of HarbourVest that the directors, managers or other officers Structured Solutions II GP Ltd. HVSS, the of the Company shall be fully indemnified by general partner of HarbourVest Structured the Company from and against all actions, Solutions II L. P. Keith Corbin resigned as a expenses and liabilities which they may incur director of HVSS on 16 December 2015. by reason of any contract entered into or any act in or about the execution of their offices, except such if any as they shall incur by or through their own negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust respectively.
