The Company accounts for income taxes under NOTE 3 Material Agreements the provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes.
and Related Fees This standard establishes consistent thresholds Administrative Agreement as it relates to accounting for income taxes.
The Company has retained JTC Group JTC It defines the threshold for recognising the as Company Secretary and Administrator.
benefits of tax-return positions in the financial Fees for these services are paid as invoiced statements as more-likely-than-not to be by JTC and include an administration fee sustained by the taxing authority and requires of 12,871 per annum, a secretarial fee of measurement of a tax position meeting the 27,431 per annum, an additional value fee more-likely-than-not criterion, based on the equal to 1 12 of 0.005% of the net asset largest benefit that is more than fifty percent value of the Company above $200 million likely to be realised.
For the year ended as at the last business day of each month, 31 January 2016, the Investment Manager and reimbursable expenses.
During the year has analysed the Companys inventory of tax ended 31 January 2016, fees of $123,717 positions taken with respect to all applicable were incurred to JTC and are included as income tax issues for all open tax years in each other expenses in the Consolidated Statements respective jurisdiction, and has concluded that of Operations.
no provision for income tax is required in the Companys financial statements.
Registrar Shareholders in certain jurisdictions may have The Company has retained Capita as share individual tax consequences from ownership of registrar.
Fees for this service include an the Companys shares.
The Company has not annual base fee of 8,505 per annum, corpoaccounted for any such tax consequences in rate portal fee of 1,550 per annum, plus other these consolidated financial statements.
During the year ended 31 January 2016, registrar fees of $26,537 were Market and Other Risk Factors incurred and are included as other expenses in The Companys investments are subject to the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
various risk factors including market, credit, interest rate, and currency risk.
Investments Independent Auditors Fees are based primarily in the U. S. and Europe For the year ended 31January 2016, $135,400 and thus have concentrations in such regions.
has been accrued for auditors fees and is The Companys investments are also subject to included in professional fees in the Consolidated the risks associated with investing in leveraged Statements of Operations.
Non-audit fees buyout and venture capital transactions that are of $105,500 related to tax preparation were illiquid and non-publicly traded.
Such investments paid to the independent auditor for the year are inherently more sensitive to declines in ended 31 January 2016 and are included revenues and to increases in expenses that may in professional fees in the Consolidated occur due to general downward swings in the Statements of Operations.
Non-audit fees world economy or other risk factors including of 62,500 related to the Main Market listing increasingly intense competition, rapid changes were paid to the independent auditor for in technology, changes in federal, state and forthe year ended 31 January 2016 and are eign regulations, and limited capital investments.
included in non-recurring listing expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
