FEES AND EXPENSES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Audit Committee reviewed the calculation The Audit Committee continues to monitor the of fees and expenses paid by the Company to review by the Board of the Companys comthe Investment Manager and primary service pliance with corporate governance standards providers as well as the auditors processes following the admission to trading of the Compafor checking those calculations.
Discussing the nys Ordinary Shares on the Main Market of the calculation and disclosure of fees paid to the London Stock Exchange which took place on 9 Investment Manager, the Audit Committee noted September 2015. the enhanced disclosures and presentation in OTHER MATTERS the Annual Report and concluded that the inforThe Board as a whole undertakes annual visits mation was in a clear and understandable forto the Investment Managers offices usually mat.
The Audit Committee noted the discussions alternating between Boston and London.
In May between the Board and the Investment Manager 2015, the Board visited the Investment Managto ensure that fees charged to the Company ers London office and the Boston office in Nowere comparable with those charged to other vember 2015.
The Board receives presentations significant investors in HarbourVest funds.
The from various operational teams of the Investment overall percentage rate of fees and expenses Manager regarding investment strategy and othpaid to the Investment Manager continues to er matters relating to the Companys affairs and be reduced from the levels of previous financial also discusses these matters with the Investyears, and the Audit Committee also reviewed ment Managers managing directors.
the information regarding those fees contained in this Annual Report to ensure that it was presentIn presenting this report, I have set out for the ed in a clear and consistent manner.
Companys shareholders the key areas that the Audit Committee focuses on.
However if any INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT shareholders would like any further information During the course of the financial year, the terms about how the Audit Committee operates and its of the Investment Management Agreement were review process, I, or any of the other members reviewed by the Board and amended by agreeof the Audit Committee would be pleased to ment with the Investment Manager as part of the meet with members to discuss this.
preparations for the Main Market Listing.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Audit Committee reviewed the Boards policies and procedures regarding the identification, management, and monitoring of risks that Keith Corbin could affect the Company and considers that the Chairman of the Audit Committee Board is engaged on an ongoing basis in 27 May 2016 the process of monitoring relevant risks.
