Directors Estimates The directors are responsible for the determiThe preparation of the financial statements in nation of the investment policy of the Company conformity with U. S. GAAP requires manageon the advice of the Investment Manager and ment to make estimates and assumptions that have overall responsibility for the Companys affect the amounts reported in the consolidated activities.
This includes the periodic review of financial statements and accompanying notes.
the Investment Managers compliance with the Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Companys investment policies and procedures Recent Accounting Pronouncements and the approval of certain investments.
In May 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-07, A majority of directors must be independent Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities directors and not affiliated with HarbourVest That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share or or any affiliate of HarbourVest.
This guidance eliminates the NOTE 2 Summary of Significant current requirement to categorise within the fair Accounting Policies value hierarchy investments whose fair values The following accounting policies have been are measured at net asset value NAV using the applied consistently in dealing with items practical expedient in ASC 820.
The guidance is which are considered material in relation to effective for annual reporting periods beginning the Companys consolidated financial position.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance.
Basis of Presentation Investments The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Investments are stated at fair value in accordance Limited and its four wholly owned subsidiaries, with the Companys investment valuation policy.
HVGPE - Domestic A L. P. HVGPE - Domestic B L. P. The inputs used to determine fair value include HVGPE - International A L. P. and HVGPE - financial statements provided by the investment International B L. P. Each of the subsidiaries is a partnerships which typically include fair market Cayman Islands limited partnership formed to value capital account balances.
In reviewing facilitate the purchase of certain investments.
the underlying financial statements and capital All intercompany accounts and transactions account balances, the Company considers have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain compliance with ASC 820, the currency in comparative amounts have been reclassified which the investment is denominated, and other to conform to the current year presentation.
The Company determines whether it is appropriate to value Method of Accounting the investments based on the capital account The consolidated financial statements are balance provided by the investment partnerprepared in conformity with U. S. generally ships or to adjust such value.
This valuation accepted accounting principles U. S. GAAP, does not necessarily reflect amounts that The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, and the might ultimately be realised from the investment Principal Documents.
Under applicable rules of and the difference can be material.
Dutch law implementing the EU Transparency Securities for which a public market does exist Directive, the Company is allowed to prepare are valued by the Company at quoted market its financial statements in accordance with prices at the balance sheet date.
Generally, the U. S. GAAP instead of IFRS or Dutch GAAP.
partnership investments have a defined term The Company is an investment company following and cannot be transferred without the consent the accounting and reporting guidance of the of the General Partner of the limited partnership Financial Accounting Standards Boards FASB in which the investment has been made.
Accounting Standards Codification ASC Topic 946 Financial Services Investment Companies.
90 HVPE 2016 Annual Report Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures Foreign Currency Transactions Net Change in Unrealised Appreciation and Depreciation on Investments The currency in which the Company operates is U. S. dollars, which is also the presentation For investments in private equity funds, currency.
Transactions denominated in foreign the Company records its share of change in currencies are recorded in the local currency unrealised gains and losses as reported by the at the exchange rate in effect at the transaction Investment Manager as an increase or decrease dates.
Foreign currency investments, investment in unrealised appreciation or depreciation of commitments, cash and equivalents, and investments and is net of any carry allocation.
other assets and liabilities are translated at When an investment is realised, the related the rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
unrealised appreciation or depreciation is Foreign currency translation gains and losses recognised as realised.
are included in realised and unrealised gains Income Taxes losses on investments as incurred.
The Company The Company is registered in Guernsey as a does not segregate that portion of realised tax exempt company.
The States of Guernsey or unrealised gains and losses attributable to Income Tax Authority has granted the Company foreign currency translation on investments.
exemption from Guernsey income tax under Cash and Equivalents the provision of the Income Tax Exempt Bodies The Company considers all highly liquid investGuernsey Ordinance 1989 as amended ments with an original maturity of three months and the Company will be charged an annual or less to be cash equivalents.
The carrying exemption fee of 1,200. amount included in the balance sheet for cash Income may be subject to withholding taxes and equivalents approximates their fair value.
imposed by the U. S. or other countries which The Company maintains bank accounts denomwill impact the Companys effective tax rate.
inated in U. S. dollars, in euros, and in pounds Investments made in entities that generate sterling.
The Company may invest excess cash U. S. source income may subject the Company balances in highly liquid instruments such as certo certain U. S. federal and state income tax tificates of deposit, sovereign debt obligations of consequences.
A U. S. withholding tax at the certain countries, and money market funds that rate of 30% may be applied on the distributive are highly rated by the credit rating agencies.
share of any U. S. source dividends and interest Investment Income subject to certain exemptions and certain other income that is received directly or through one Investment income includes interest from cash or more entities treated as either partnerships and equivalents and dividends.
Dividends are or disregarded entities for U. S. federal income recorded when they are declared and interest tax purposes.
Furthermore, investments made is recorded when earned.
in entities that generate income that is effectively Operating Expenses connected with a U. S. trade or business may also subject the Company to certain U. S. Operating expenses include amounts directly federal and state income tax consequences.
incurred by the Company as part of its operaThe U. S. requires withholding on effectively tions, and do not include amounts incurred connected income at the highest U. S. rate from the operations of the investment entities.
In addition, the Company may Net Realised Gains and also be subject to a branch profits tax which Losses on Investments can be imposed at a rate of up to 30% of For investments in private equity funds, the any after-tax, effectively connected income Company records its share of realised gains associated with a U. S. trade or business.
and losses as reported by the Investment However, no amounts have been accrued.
Manager including fund level related expenses and management fees, and is net of any carry allocation.
Realised gains and losses are calculated as the difference between proceeds received and the related cost of the investment.
