HARGREAVES LANSDOWN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 144 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GLOSSARY OF ALTERNATIVE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES Within the Report and Financial Statements various Alternative Financial Performance Measures are referred to, which are non-GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice measures.
They are used in order to provide a better understanding of the performance of the Group and the table below states those which have been used, how they have been calculated and why they have been used.
Measure Calculation Why we use this measure Cash conversion The operating cash flows for the year divided by the operating Provides a measure of the efficiency with which profits are ratio % profits for the year.
Discretionary The total value of the annual management charge earned on the Provides a measure of the quality of our earnings.
We believe recurring net Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds and the management recurring revenue provides greater profit resilience and hence it is revenue % fees and ongoing adviser charges for the PMS service divided by of higher quality.
the total discretionary net revenue.
Dividend pay-out The total dividend per share divided by the basic Earnings Per Provides a measure of the level of profits paid out to shareholders ratio % Share EPS for a financial year.
and the level retained in the business.
Dividend per Total dividend payable relating to a financial year divided by the Dividend per share is pertinent information to shareholders share pence per total number of shares eligible to receive a dividend.
Note ordinary and investors and provides them with the ability to assess the share shares held in the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust dividend yield of the Hargreaves Lansdown PLC shares.
have agreed to waive all dividends see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Operating Costs The costs per the Income Statement excluding commission In light of the transitional period relating to the Retail Distribution payable i. e. the aggregate of staff costs, other operating costs Review see Net Revenue below and the impact this had on and FSCS costs.
commission payable in the form of loyalty bonuses, this measure of Operating Costs provides a more useful comparative measure over time.
Net revenue Total revenue less commission payments which are primarily Because of the changes brought about to the client charging loyalty bonuses paid to Vantage clients.
structure by the Retail Distribution Review RDR there was See Income a transitional period from 1 March 2014 to 1 April 2016.
From Statement on 1 March 2014 revenue was increased as Hargreaves Lansdown page 100 for the earned both a new platform fee from clients and the existing reconciliation of renewal commission from the Fund Management Groups based net revenue on the value of funds held by clients.
At the same time the loyalty bonus paid to clients was significantly increased on the pre-RDR funds to largely mitigate the impact of the new platform fee.
In order to aid comparability during the period of transition to 1 April 2016 the net revenue measure became the most useful comparative measure of revenue as it better reflected the underlying income relating to funds held by clients.
Net revenue per Total net revenue divided by the average number of employees Provides a measure of staff productivity and the scalability of the employee excluding directors for the year.
Percentage of The total value of renewal commission after deducting loyalty Provides a measure of the quality of our earnings.
We believe recurring net bonuses, platform fees, management fees and interest earned on recurring revenue provides greater profit resilience and hence it is revenue % client money divided by the total net revenue.
Percentage of The total value of Vantage renewal commission after deducting Provides a measure of the quality of our earnings.
We believe Vantage recurring loyalty bonuses, platform fees, management fees and interest recurring revenue provides greater profit resilience and hence it is net revenue % earned on client money divided by the total Vantage net revenue.
Vantage net Total Vantage net revenue divided by the average value of assets Provides the most comparable means of tracking, over time, the revenue margin under administration which includes the Portfolio Management margin earned on the assets under administration and is used by % Services assets under management held in funds on which a management to assess business performance.
Vantage net Net revenue from cash net interest earned on the value of client Provides a means of tracking, over time, the margin earned on revenue margin money held on the Vantage platform divided by the average value cash held by our clients.
from cash % of assets under administration held as client money.
Vantage net Net revenue derived from funds held by clients platform fees, Provides the most comparable means of tracking, over time, the revenue margin initial commission less loyalty bonus divided by the average margin earned on funds held by our clients.
from funds % value of assets under administration held as funds, which includes the Portfolio Management Services assets under management held in funds on which a platform fee is charged.
Vantage net Net revenue from shares stockbroking commissions, Provides a means of tracking, over time, the margin earned on revenue margin management fees where shares are held in a SIPP or ISA, less shares held by our clients.
from shares % the cost of dealing errors divided by the average value of assets under administration held as shares.
