Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued Reinsurance assets The Group uses both non-proportional excess of loss reinsurance and quota share reinsurance arrangements.
The calculation of reinsurance recoveries is intrinsically linked to the calculation of outstanding claims liabilities, and requires the same estimations and judgements as reinsurance assets are recognised to the extent that the Group can recover the cost of a claim.
Further judgement is required in respect of the recoverability of such assets, particularly the longer term assets arising from larger claims and PPOs.
Management review the recoverability of reinsurance assets on a regular basis to determine whether any provision is required.
When recognising a reinsurance asset, the Group reviews the level of coverage provided by the reinsurer to ensure that the recognition is appropriate as well as the credit rating of the counterparty.
Goodwill and intangibles Management determines the estimated useful lives and residual values of intangible assets.
The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and, where necessary, the amortisation charge is revised prospectively.
Changes in the circumstances or expectations of future performance of an individual asset may be an indicator that the asset is impaired.
The assets recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell or value in use, is assessed and where this is below its carrying amount, the asset is deemed to be impaired.
Fair value is the amount that would be expected to be received in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable market participants.
Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows.
The Group reviews each cash generating unit CGU with allocated goodwill for impairment on an annual basis.
Where a CGU is impaired, an impairment charge is made against the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU, before other nonfinancial assets of the CGU are impaired on a pro-rata basis.
Estimating the recoverable amount of an asset requires a high degree of judgement and requires estimation of the Groups future cash flows and judgement of a market discount rate that applies as well as the amount that would be expected to be received in any transaction for the sale of assets.
Insurance contracts risk management A key risk from operating in the general insurance industry is the exposure to insurance risk arising from underwriting insurance contracts.
Insurance contracts transfer risk to the insurer by indemnifying the customers against adverse effects arising from the occurrence of specified uncertain future events.
The risk is that the actual amount of claims to be paid in relation to contracts will be different from the amount estimated at the time the contract was designed and priced, which is before the losses relating to it are known.
Hence the insurance business involves inherent uncertainty.
A fundamental part of the Groups overall risk management strategy is the effective governance and management of risks that impact the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from insurance contracts.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk A disciplined approach to risk management is adopted in accordance with strict protocols.
It is believed that this approach provides the greatest long term likelihood of being able to meet the objectives of all stakeholders, including customers, lenders and shareholders.
The risk management activities can be broadly separated into underwriting acceptance and pricing of risk, reinsurance, claims management and investment management.
The objective of these risk management functions is to enhance the longer term financial performance of the overall insurance operations.
Insurance contracts risk management continued Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk continued Acceptance of risk The Board of Directors of the Groups underwriting subsidiary, Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL, approves the underwriting and pricing policy, and reviews and monitors the underwriting and pricing standards and strategies.
The Groups underwriting strategy is focused on a sophisticated data-driven approach to pricing and underwriting through: collating and analysing comprehensive data from customers: tight control over the pricing guidelines in order to target profitable business lines: and fast and flexible responsiveness to market trends.
The underwriting of large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks reduces the variability in overall claims experience.
Management information systems are maintained that provide up to date, reliable data on the risks to which the business is exposed at any point in time.
Efforts are made, including the use of plain language policy terms, to ensure there is no misalignment between what customers perceive will be paid when a policy is initially entered and what is actually paid when aclaim is made.
Pricing Statistical models are used which combine historical and projected data to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
The data used includes historical pricing and claims analysis as well as current conditions and developments in the market.
All data used is subject to rigorous verification and reconciliation processes.
Claims management Initial claim determination is managed by claims handlers with the requisite degree of experience and competence with the assistance of, where appropriate, a loss adjuster or other party with specialist knowledge.
It is the Groups policy to respond to and settle claims quickly whenever possible and to pay claims fairly, based on customers full entitlement in line with consumer and regulator expectations.
When PPOs are awarded as a result of claims made under insurance contracts, there is a risk that these may be of a high value and for a long term.
As such, management perform detailed reviews of expected PPOs throughout the claims process toidentify the expected ultimate value of such claims as early as possible and reserve appropriately.
Reinsurance contracts Reinsurance contracts are used both to limit exposure to claims pervasively across the business, and specifically to limit exposure to large single claims and the accumulation of claims that arise from the same event or the accumulation of similar events.
The Group uses excess of loss reinsurance arrangements and the effect of such arrangements is that the Group should not suffer net motor insurance losses before quota share arrangements in excess of 0.5m on any individual loss event between 1 January 2003 and 31 December 2014 subject to an aggregate deductible of 5.0m in 2014, and in excess of 1.0m on any individual loss event from 1 January 2015.
Additionally, the Group has a 50% quota share arrangement in place, applicable on all new motor insurance policies incepted byAICL since 1 January 2011.
The Group also uses excess of loss reinsurance arrangements for home insurance policies, the effect of which is that the Group does not suffer total net home insurance losses of more than 0.5m on any individual event as of 1 January 2016 2015: 0.3m, capped at 9.3m liability per event 2015: 15.0m.
The use of reinsurance contracts does not discharge the Groups liability as primary insurer.
If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim, the Group remains liable for the payment to the policyholder.
As part of reinsurance contract risk management, the creditworthiness of reinsurers to control exposure to reinsurance counterparty default is considered on a quarterly basis by reviewing their financial strength.
In addition, management assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers and intermediaries by reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly available financial information.
The recent payment history of reinsurers is also used to update the reinsurance purchasing strategy.
The credit ratings of the Groups reinsurers aredisclosed in Note 26.
