Independence of Non-Executive Directors Whistle blowing The Board considers all the Independent Non-Executive A whistle blowing policy is in force across the Group to enable Directors to be independent and although most of them colleagues to bring to the attention of any Director serious hold shares in the Company, these shareholdings are not matters of misconduct which they believe would damage considered sufficiently material to impact their independence.
theperformance or reputation of the Group.
Directors conflict of interest Annual General Meeting AGM No Director had, during the year, any related party The Company welcomes the interaction with shareholders at transactions or any beneficial interest in any contract its Annual General Meeting and the Chairman of the Board and significant to the Companys business, other than a contract each of its Committees will be available at the AGM.
Shareholders of employment or letter of appointment.
The Company are entitled to vote on all resolutions put to the AGM and votes has procedures in place for managing conflicts of interest.
cast will be counted, whether in person or by proxy, by means Atthe start of each Board meeting each Director reviews ofa poll on every resolution in the Notice of AGM.
and confirms his her other directorships and advisory roles or trusteeships held.
Should a Director become aware The results of the votes on the resolutions, including the that they, or their connected parties, have an interest in an number of votes for and against each resolution and the existing or proposed transaction with the Company, they are number of shares for which the vote was directed to be required to notify the Board in writing or at a Board meeting.
withheld, will be provided at the meeting, published on The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to the Companys website and publicly available by means authorise potential conflicts of interest and impose any limits offormalannouncement.
on a Directors participation in Board decision making relating to that conflict.
This process operated successfully for the year The AGM for 2017 will be held at 11am on Thursday 25 May under review.
The Company confirms that it will send the Notice of AGMandrelated documentation to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, either by post, to those shareholders who prefer a paper copy, or by email to those shareholders who have agreed that the Company can communicate with them electronically.
The Notice of AGM and the Proxy form are available from the Investors section on the Companys website www.
Company website Shareholders and other interested parties can access further information about the Company at www.
