Financial statements continued Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Hastings Group Holdings plc the Company, HGH, was incorporated on 11 June 2015.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company and its registered office and principal place of business is at Conquest House, Collington Avenue, Bexhill-on-Sea, TN39 3LW, United Kingdom.
The Companys registered number is 09635183.
The Financial Statements comprise the results of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016 and comparative figures for the period from incorporation to 31 December 2015.
The Company made a profit for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 31.8m 2015: Loss of 2.1m and has elected not to present aParent Company Statement of Profit or Loss as permitted bySection 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU IFRS that are in effect as at 31 December 2016.
IFRS comprise standards and interpretations approved bythe International Accounting Standards Board and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of these separate Financial Statements are consistent with the accounting policies used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements of Hastings Group Holdings plc.
Going concern Having considered the financial performance and financial position of the Company, its cash flows and dividend capacity of itstrading subsidiaries over the next 12 months, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Basis of measurement The functional currency is Pounds Sterling and the Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling.
Amounts are rounded to the nearest million with one decimal place i. e. 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
The Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis.
Application of IFRS The accounting policies developed in accordance with the standards effective under IFRS as at 31 December 2016, have been applied consistently to these Financial Statements.
Accounting policies Employee benefits Pension contributions The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
The amount charged to profit or loss in respect of pension costs is the amount of contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Parent Company Balance Sheet.
The Company has no legal or constructive obligation to make any further payments to the plans other than the contributions due.
Share based payments The Company operates share based payment schemes under which participants may receive free share awards or nil cost options, depending on the scheme.
Awards may have service and performance conditions attached.
The fair value of a share based payment award is determined at grant date and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
Expected vesting in respect of service and non-market performance conditions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made retrospectively to the cumulative expense.
The expense for employees of the Company is recognised in the Parent Company Profit or Loss with a corresponding amount recognised within equity.
Where shares are awarded to subsidiary employees it results in an increase in the cost of investment in the subsidiary, with a corresponding amount recognised within equity.
Investment in subsidiary The investment in subsidiary is reported in the Parent Company Balance Sheet at cost less any impairment.
