Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Hastings Group Holdings plc the Company, Hastings, HGH was incorporated on 11 June 2015.
The Companys registered office and principal place of business is at Conquest House, Collington Avenue, Bexhill-on-Sea, TN39 3LW, United Kingdom.
The principal activities of the Group are the broking and underwriting of UK private car, van, bike and home insurance.
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 and comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU IFRS that are in effect at 31 December 2016.
IFRS comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Reorganisation On 12 August 2015, the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc HIG H, the ultimate parent company of Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL and Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL, in a series of transactions referred to as the reorganisation.
Both the Company and HIG H were under common control before and after the reorganisation and, as a consequence, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the principles of predecessor accounting.
No acquirer was therefore required to be identified and all entities are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements at their pre-combination carrying amounts and including their pre-acquisition results within the comparatives.
Differences on consolidation arising between consideration paid and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired was included within equity as a merger reserve.
Going concern The financial performance and position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out in the primary statements and the subsequent notes.
Further analysis of the Groups operations, capital management strategy, risk management practices and growth strategy may be found in the strategic report.
Having considered the foregoing items, the Groups approved budget and cash flow forecasts for the next 12 months and beyond, and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Basis of measurement The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling.
Amounts are rounded to the nearest million with onedecimal place i. e. 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amounts, events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed in Note 3.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and property which are measured at their fair value or revalued amounts.
Basis of preparation continued Adoption of new IFRS On 1 January 2016, the Group adopted the amendments to IFRS which were issued and endorsed by the European Union EU and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016: IFRS Detail IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Amendment: Investment Entities Applying the Consolidation Exception IAS 27 Amendment: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements IAS 1 Amendment: Disclosure initiative IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendment: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation IAS 16 and IAS 41 Amendment: Bearer Plants Annual improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 cycle issued on 25 September 2014 IFRS 11 Amendment: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations There was no material impact on the results reported within the Consolidated Financial Statements on adoption of these amended IFRS.
Adjusted operating profit is a non-IFRS measure used by the Group to assess performance of the business.
This measure was previously referred to as Group operating profit but was renamed to adjusted operating profit following the amendments to IAS 1 in order to provide greater clarity to the users of the accounts.
There has been no change to the underlying definition of the measure.
The following accounting standards have been issued by the IASB but are not yet effective in the EU: IFRS EU Status IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Endorsed by the EU on 22 November 2016 and effective from 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from  Endorsed by the EU on 29 October 2016 and effective from 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases Not yet endorsed by the EU IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9 sets out comprehensive requirements relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
In 2016, the IASB amended IFRS 4, the existing Insurance Contracts standard, to allow entities that issue insurance contracts to defer application of IFRS 9 until accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021.
This is intended to align with the expected effective date of IFRS 17, the forthcoming Insurance Contracts standard.
This option is subject to meeting criteria relating to the predominance of insurance activity.
The Group does not anticipate that the initial application of IFRS 9 will have a material impact upon the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group expects to be eligible to apply the deferral amendments to IFRS 4, and currently intends to do so.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 provides a five step framework for the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers and increased levels of quantitative and qualitative disclosures.
Management do not expect that the adoption of IFRS 15 will have a significant impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 implements a single, comprehensive lease accounting model whereby lessees will be required to recognise leases on balance sheet.
Management are in the process of evaluating the impact of IFRS 16 on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The undiscounted value of the Groups operating lease obligations are disclosed in Note 31.
