Corporate governance continued Remuneration report continued Individual performance against objectives Bonus outcomes for Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer 2016 has been a strong year, with continued delivery of Our Chief Executive Officer has very successfully led the our enviable track record of strong profitable growth.
This, business across all dimensions through the first full year combined with the performance achievements as described following IPO.
His connection with our colleagues is evident above, and the Companys strong share price performance of through the feedback from our employee engagement survey 47% growth in the year from 1.67 to 2.46, the Committee Your Voice and through his very personal approach to setting determined that the Chief Executive Officer should receive out progress and future direction in Colleague Roadshows.
a bonus of 237,500 50% of salary and maximum and the Heis well respected and embodies the Hastings expectations Chief Financial Officer receive 157,500 50% of salary and of a leader including through his clear commitment to customers.
25% of these bonus awards willbe deferred into shares for three years.
Implementing and embedding Guidewire is the key initiative that is making a difference for customers and the successful Long Term Incentives implementation in Claims has made a tangible improvement No Long-Term Incentive Plan awards were due to vest in in customer experience.
Our Chief Executive Officer is very respect of2016.
supportive of our community programmes which drive a strong sense of pride across Hastings.
Legacy arrangements Admission Awards The share price growth and delivery of other key Company As disclosed in the DRR for 2015, Executive Directors metrics, including the promises made at IPO, is impressive.
It is were granted conditional share awards at the time of also worth noting he has led the Executive team in delivering in the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange excess of 20% year on year growth in adjusted operating profit, Admission Awards.
For 2015, as required, the values shown before the impact of the Ogden rate change 5% after allowing in the Single Figure table represented the face value of the for the one off impact of the reduction in Ogden rate.
awards at Admission, which are subject to the Executive Directors continued employment with the Company.
The Overall, therefore, our Chief Executive Officer has demonstrated individuals have not yet received any value from these awards.
strong delivery and leadership throughout 2016.
The awards were expressed in cash terms and will be delivered Chief Financial Officer in shares at the end of 2017 and 2018 based on the market Our Chief Financial Officer has had a very strong year.
He price of shares at that time.
The award for Gary Hoffman has provided effective leadership of the Finance function will be 750,000 payable at the end of 2017 and 750,000 and driven many of our initiatives to ensure Hastings has payable at the end of 2018.
The award for Richard Hoskins will transitioned smoothly following IPO.
In the event that the Board determines that Key achievements in the year include a successful roll the market price of shares has fallen materially since the grant out ofa new finance operating model, providing greater of the Admission awards, the Board may reduce the value support to the business, improvements in internal and of the Admission awards at the time they become payable.
external financial reporting, significant contribution towards Nofurther Admission awards will be made.
our Investor Relations programme and achievement of all capitalmanagement objectives.
Management incentive plan As disclosed in the DRR for 2015, a Management Incentive Plan MIP was established at the time of the Goldman Sachs investment in the business in January 2014.
The interests still held by Directors are set out in the Directors Shareholding and Scheme Interests table on page 81.
Details of the vesting conditions of the interests are provided in the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report.
