Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Fair values Financial assets carried at fair value are analysed by their level within the fair value hierarchy based on the observability of inputs into the valuation.
Such assets are categorised as follows: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The level in which financial assets carried at fair value have been classified in their entirety is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
Where assets are not traded sufficiently regularly for the sales to be classified as occurring on active market, they are classified as level 2.
Assets are valued by reference to the most recent observable market trade unless there is evidence of impairment.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the assets and liabilities recognised as at the reporting date and the income and expense recognised during the reporting period as well as the content of any disclosures.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, events and actions, actual results may differ from these judgements and assumptions.
The judgements that the Directors have made in applying the Groups accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the major sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Claims liabilities The estimation of liabilities arising from claims made under insurance contracts and the related reinsurance recoveries are the Groups most critical accounting estimates.
Estimates, and the resulting loss ratios, are informed by detailed actuarial analysis and reflect a balanced assessment of risk and probability, resulting in a sufficiently prudent liability to give the Directors of the Group confidence that the Group is adequately provisioned to meet its future liabilities.
The actuarial best estimate of outstanding claims includes the estimate of expenses to be incurred in settling claims and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure that it has appropriate information regarding claims exposure.
However, given the uncertainty in establishing claims provisions, it is likely that the final outcome will prove to be different from the original estimated liability.
In order to reduce the risk of underestimation of these liabilities, a margin is maintained over and above the Groups internal actuarial best estimate of outstanding claims liabilities.
In calculating the estimated cost of unpaid claims, the Group uses a variety of estimation techniques, including statistical analysis of historic experience which assumes that the development pattern of the current claims will be consistent with past experience.
A component of these estimation techniques is the estimation of the cost of notified but not paid claims.
In estimating the cost of these, the Group has regard to the claim circumstances as reported, information available from loss adjusters and information on the cost of settling claims with similar characteristics in previous years.
The estimation of claims incurred but not reported IBNR is generally subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the cost of settling claims already notified to the Group, where information about the claim event is available.
Classes of business where the IBNR proportion of the total outstanding claims liabilities is high will typically display greater variations between the initial estimates and the final outcomes because of the greater degree of difficulty of estimating those reserves.
Classes of business where claims are typically reported relatively quickly after the claim event will tend to display lower levels of volatility.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued Claims liabilities continued Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the required level of claims liabilities.
This provides greater understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The projections given by the various methodologies also assist in setting the range of possible outcomes.
The most appropriate estimation technique is selected, taking into account thecharacteristics of the business class and the extent of the development of each accident year.
Allowance is made for changes or uncertainties which may create distortions in the underlying statistics or which might cause the cost of unsettled claims to increase or reduce when compared with the cost of previously settled claims, including: changes in Group processes which might accelerate the development and or recording of paid or incurred claims compared with the statistics from previous years: changes in the legal environment: the effect of inflation: changes in the mix of business: the impact of large losses: and movements in industry benchmarks.
Large third party injury claims typically involve costs that relate to future periods, such as covering the loss of future earnings or the ongoing cost of care and will either be settled through a lump sum settlement or through a periodic payment order PPO.
Such claims, including PPOs, are generally assessed individually, either being measured on a case by case basis or projected separately in order to reduce the possible, distortive effect of the development and incidence.
Where a claim has been settled through a PPO or it is expected that a PPO will be awarded, the liability is calculated using discounted cash flows.
Where management assess that a claim will be settled through a lump sum payment, the liability is calculated with reference to the Ogden discount rate which is used by the courts when calculating lump sum settlements.
Therate, as announced by the Lord Chancellor on 27 February 2017 and with effect from 20 March 2017, is minus 0.75%, whichhas been used to calculate the Groups claims liabilities which are likely to be settled at the revised rate.
Short tail claims are normally reported soon after the incident and are generally settled within the months following the reported incident.
Hence any development on short tail claims is normally limited to the period in which the incident occurred and the following period.
For long tail claims it can be more than one period before a claim is reported and several periods before it is settled, hence the original estimation involves greater uncertainty and it is inherently more likely that there will be a greater disparity between the original and current estimates.
It is for these long tail claims that the development of the outstanding claims liability generally occurs over a number of periods.
The development of claims from prior periods is set out in Note 22.
Given the uncertainty in establishing the outstanding claims liabilities, it is likely that the final outcome will be different from the original liability established.
The following table sets out the adverse impact on profit after tax and total equity that would result from a 1% worsening in the loss ratio used for each accident year for which material amounts remain outstanding.
