Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Hastings Group Holdings plc the Company, Hastings, HGH was incorporated on 11 June 2015.
The Companys registered office and principal place of business is at Conquest House, Collington Avenue, Bexhill-on-Sea, TN39 3LW, United Kingdom.
The principal activities of the Group are the broking and underwriting of UK private car, van, bike and home insurance.
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 and comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU IFRS that are in effect at 31 December 2016.
IFRS comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Reorganisation On 12 August 2015, the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc HIG H, the ultimate parent company of Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL and Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL, in a series of transactions referred to as the reorganisation.
Both the Company and HIG H were under common control before and after the reorganisation and, as a consequence, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the principles of predecessor accounting.
No acquirer was therefore required to be identified and all entities are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements at their pre-combination carrying amounts and including their pre-acquisition results within the comparatives.
Differences on consolidation arising between consideration paid and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired was included within equity as a merger reserve.
Going concern The financial performance and position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out in the primary statements and the subsequent notes.
Further analysis of the Groups operations, capital management strategy, risk management practices and growth strategy may be found in the strategic report.
Having considered the foregoing items, the Groups approved budget and cash flow forecasts for the next 12 months and beyond, and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Basis of measurement The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling.
Amounts are rounded to the nearest million with onedecimal place i. e. 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amounts, events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed in Note 3.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and property which are measured at their fair value or revalued amounts.
