Adoption of Policy on the Provision Internal audit ofAuditandNon-Audit Services The internal audit function is managed and resourced via a third party relationship with Grant Thornton.
It brings Under the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Committee, as representative of the shareholders, is a systematic, disciplined approach to the evaluation and improvement of the effectiveness of risk management control required to oversee the relationship with the Auditor and keep the nature and extent of non-audit services under review.
Internal audit provides insight and recommendations based on the assessment of data The Committee must satisfy itself that the independence and objectivity of the Auditor are not compromised.
Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board a fully Code compliant Group Policy on the Provision of Audit and The independence of the internal audit function helps to ensure that accurate reports are provided to the Board, Audit Non-Audit Services: which was approved by the Board.
and Risk Committees without undue management influence on the audit and its processes.
The internal audit function In the Committees assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process KPMG was asked to articulate the service provider was chosen through a tender process involving reputable audit firms and the independence of stepsthat it has taken to ensure objectivity and independence.
TheCommittee monitors the Auditors performance, that firm is regularly reviewed.
Internal audit also reviews theeffectiveness of the Group risk functions.
behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, which informs the Audit Committees decision whether Where deficiencies are identified, the Committee receives to recommend reappointment on an annual basis.
The total amount paid for non-audit work during the year was 0.4m an update at each meeting from the internal Auditor on the progress towards remediation.
No significant deficiencies in and was for assurance services connected to KPMGs role as statutory Auditor including the review of the Interim Results the system of internal controls were identified in internal audit reviews during 2016. and review of grant monitoring forms for a local authority.
Priorities for 2017 In the coming year the Audit Committee will focus on: continued review of the Groups reserving process: oversight of the implementation by the Group of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: assessment of the impact on the Group of IFRS 16 Leases and ensuring the Group is prepared to comply with the standard: and ensuring the Groups internal audit function continues its systematic and disciplined approach.
