Corporate governance continued Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee also asked the Groups external Auditor Having considered all the information presented and having to provide an update on the procedures they used to test satisfied itself with the enquiries made, the Committee the reserving process and best estimate calculations in confirmed it was satisfied with the Groups approach and the accordance with the applicable accounting and auditing accuracy and recoverability of the reinsurance assets heldand standards.
The external Auditor further confirmed the reasonableness of the claims reserves held.
challenges made, representations received and conclusions based on this.
Significant issues related to the Financial Statements Other than the areas of significant judgement described Having considered all the information presented and having above, there were no other significant issues related to satisfied itself with the enquiries made, the Committee theFinancial Statements considered by the Committee confirmed it was satisfied with the Groups approach and the anddiscussed with the external Auditor during the year completeness and reasonableness of the provision for claims andinrelation to the 31 December 2016 year end.
Interaction with the FRC Corporate Reporting Reinsurance assets Review team The Group uses both non-proportional excess of loss and In November 2016, the Company Chairman, Chairman quota share reinsurance arrangements to limit its exposure of the Audit Committee and the Chief Financial Officer to claims.
The excess of loss programme limits the Groups received a letter from the Financial Reporting Councils exposure on any individual claim and the quota share FRC Corporate Reporting Review team in relation to arrangement provides 50% cover on all motor claims after the Annual ReportandAccounts for the period ended excess of loss recoveries.
The Group would remain liable for all 31December 2015.
This letter highlighted two areas on which amounts due to policyholders should any reinsurer fail to pay.
the FRC recommended improvements or requested further clarification.
Those areas related to alternative performance An accurate calculation of reinsurance assets is vital to ensure measures and the Relationship Agreement between the an appropriate gross and net position is recognised within the Company and controlling shareholders.
The calculation of reinsurance recovery reviewed the recommendations and provided further clarity assets is intrinsically linked to the calculation of outstanding to the FRC on both matters.
The Company welcomed the FRCs claims liabilities, and requires the same estimations and interaction and agreed to review its disclosures in relation judgements as considered by Underwritings Reserving to these matters and has made further improvements to its Committee, and is subject to the same level of control corporate financial reporting.
The FRC was satisfied with the andreview.
responses provided by the Company and no further action was required.
There is further judgement required in establishing the recoverability of the reinsurers share of insurance contract External audit liabilities, particularly the longer term assets arising from The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the larger claims and PPOs.
The Group manages its exposure to relationship with, and performance of, the external Auditor.
credit risk with respect to its reinsurers through diversification, Atthe start of the audit cycle, the Committee received a detailed purchasing both excess of loss and quota share reinsurance audit plan from KPMG identifying the audit scope, planning and using two panels of reinsurers to provide cover under each materiality and its assessment of key risks.
The Committee arrangement: by reviewing the financial strength of reinsurers considered the content and scope of the audit work and the prior to finalisation of any contract: by using reinsurers with audit fees proposed by KPMG and discussed the key audit risks, strong credit ratings: and byreviewing the creditworthiness new developments within the Group and changes in accounting of reinsurers on an ongoing basis.
The creditworthiness of policies which might impact on financial reporting.
reinsurers is considered by reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly available financial The Committee is also responsible for recommending the information on a quarterly basis as well as monitoring appointment, reappointment or removal of the external Auditor.
therecent payment history of reinsurers to ensure they KPMG was appointed as Auditor to the Company in November areinaccordance with expected settlement terms.
2015, having been Auditor of Hastings Insurance Group Limited and Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc, the previous Parent Companies of the Group, since June 2011 and August 2013 respectively.
In accordance with audit partner rotation requirements, Tim Butchart stepped down as lead audit director during the year and Salim Tharani was appointed as lead audit partner for the year ended 31 December 2016, and has therefore served one year.
The reappointment of KPMG is proposed at the forthcoming AGM in May 2017.
