Corporate governance continued Independent auditors report to the members of Hastings Group Holdings plc only 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Opinions and conclusions arising from In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial ouraudit Statements the risks of material misstatement that had 1.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified thegreatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit We have audited the Financial Statements of Hastings Group significance, were as follows: Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 91 to 143.
In our opinion: Outstanding claims liabilities 901.9m: 2015: 591.7m, Refer to page 63 Audit Committee report, Note 2 Accounting the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the policies and pages 115 and 124 to 126 financial disclosures.
state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year The risk Reserving for outstanding claims liabilities is the then ended: area requiring the most significant judgement in the Financial the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly Statements.
The Group maintains reserves to cover the prepared in accordance with International Financial estimated cost of settling all expected future claims with Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union respect to losses or injuries, whether or not those losses or IFRSs as adopted by the EU : injuries have been reported to the Group.
Estimating the reserves required for claims incurred but not reported IBNR the Parent Company Financial Statements have been to the Group involves significant judgement and the use of properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted actuarial and statistical projections.
This includes whether bythe EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions any of the larger bodily injury claims will result in any Periodic ofthe Companies Act 2006: and Payment Order PPOs which are payments made periodically the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance over several years or even the lifetime of a policyholder.
PPOs with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, and potential PPOs increase the complexity and uncertainty asregards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of of the estimation of reserves due to the increased range of theIAS Regulation.
There is a risk of misstatement of IBNR liabilities due to the claims data, a key input to the reserving Overview process, being incomplete or inaccurate.
Materiality: 5.4m 2015:4.7m Group Financial Our response 1% of Group net revenue Statements as Our procedures included: 2015:1% awhole assessment of governance process: including whether the Coverage 100 % 2015: 100% of total Group had followed their documented reserving policy in Group revenue setting claims reserves: Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 assessment of data: We tested controls over the Recurring risks Outstanding claims liabilities completeness and accuracy of claims data underlying the Reinsurance assets actuarial projections used by the internal and external actuaries to set the IBNR reserves: 86 Assessment of internal and external actuaries findings: Reinsurance assets 822.0m, 2015: 547.5m, Refer to page Using our actuarial specialists to support us, we considered 64 Audit Committee report, Note 2 Accounting policies and the findings, set out in the reports of the Groups internal pages 115 and 124 to 126 financial disclosures.
actuary and Willis Towers Watson, the independent actuary.
Through critical assessment of these actuarial reports The risk As part of the Groups overall risk mitigation, the and supporting documentation, and through discussion Group purchases quota share and non-proportional excess of with both actuaries, we analysed and challenged the loss reinsurance.
The valuation of outstanding claims liabilities differences in reserving methodology applied by both recoverable from reinsurers is dependent on, but not directly actuaries as well as the key assumptions being used.
We correlated to, the valuation of outstanding claims liabilities.
assessed their assumptions for reasonableness through the use of diagnostic procedures, an assessment of claims The amount of reinsurance asset to recognise against the development trends and benchmarking to market data: IBNR claims reserves is particularly judgmental as this is inherently linked to the judgements and estimates involved Assessment of prior period development: We considered in the reserving process.
The risk of default by a reinsurer is a the results of the outturn of claims reserves determined significant inherent risk.
If any reinsurer fails to pay the Group, from prior periods to assess whether the Group has or fails to pay on a timely basis, the Group could experience historically set adequate reserves.
We assessed the margin significant losses or liquidity difficulties.
As the Group spreads held in excess of the actuarial best estimate reserves its reinsurance cover across a panel of different reinsurers, against the reserving methodology, prior periods for the Group bears credit risk to each counterparty especially to consistency and any potential uncertainties that have been longer term assets arising as a result of recoveries from IBNR reserved for within the margin: and PPO claims reserves.
Deep Dive analysis: We conducted further detailed analysis into areas of most significant uncertainty using diagnostics We increased our assessment of risk associated with based on standard actuarial techniques.
This included an reinsurance assets in response to an increase in the assessment of: proportion of reinsurance assets to total assets of the Group.
Large personal injury claims: challenging the Groups Our response estimate of the effect of the change in the Ogden discount Our procedures included: rate applied to personal injury claims and whether the frequency assumption, sensitivity and development Process and controls testing: We tested the process and patterns are comparable to our actuarial benchmark controls over the approval of new reinsurance contracts andmarket data: inorder to support the recognition of a reinsurance asset: Small and mid sized personal injury claims reserves: both Assessment of reinsurers share of claims outstanding: the frequency and severity assumptions, in addition to We used our actuarial specialists to assess the accuracy the increasing development velocity: and recoverability of the reinsurance assets over IBNR claims reserves estimated at the year end by considering Disclosures: We considered the adequacy of the Groups the historical reinsurance recovery ratios whilst taking disclosures regarding the degree of estimation uncertainty into consideration changes in the underlying reinsurance and the sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in programs.
Our actuaries assessed the methodology for assumptions, including the impact of the change in the establishing reinsurers share of IBNR claims reserves discount rate for personal injury claims.
against current market practices and for consistency with prior periods: Assessment of reinsurer credit status: We tested credit controls over new and existing reinsurance contracts and the monitoring controls over the credit ratings of the panel of reinsurers to assess the risk of default.
We assessed the credit ratings of the panel of reinsurers against rating agencies.
Weassessed the reasonableness of the reinsurance bad debt assumptions and checked the post period end receipts of reinsurance receivables to provide evidence overthe recoverability of the year end reinsurance assets.
