Directors report continued Directors report continued The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities Further information on colleague engagement can be found and ensuring that colleagues are able to work without in Investing in Our Colleagues on pages 8 to 9 and the discrimination.
Full and fair consideration is given to Corporate Social Responsibility Statement on pages 34 to 37. employment applications from all candidates with a disability.
If a colleague were to become disabled whilst in employment, Contractual arrangements the Group would make every effort to enable the colleague to The Group considers its co-insurance and reinsurance continue in employment and would make arrangements for contracts as well as contracts with PCWs to be essential to additional equipment, support and training as appropriate.
the running of the Groups business.
No other contractual arrangements are considered to be essential.
The Group is also committed to providing a professional and safe working environment for all our colleagues, which is Financial instruments achieved through the application of our policies throughout The objectives and policies for managing risks in relation to the organisation.
financial instruments held by the Group are set out in Note26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group comprises colleagues with a broad range of backgrounds and has not adopted a quota system, preferring Going concern to appoint the best candidate for any position.
Our approach The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial to recruitment is to elicit candidates from as many different resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future backgrounds as possible.
and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
In considering the As at 31 December 2016, the Companys Board had 13 appropriateness of this assumption, the Board has reviewed Directors of whom 11 were male and two female.
Of the the Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, Groups 2,680 colleagues, 1,351 were male and 1,329 including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved The Board composition of the Groups trading subsidiaries, by the Board on 1 March 2017 and are signed on its behalf by: Hastings Insurance Services Limited and Advantage Insurance Company Limited, at the end of the year was: Anthony S Leppard Male Female Company Secretary Hastings Insurance Services Limited 4 3 Advantage Insurance Company Limited 6 0 1 March 2017 The Group has a responsibility to conduct its business in an ethical and transparent way.
Accordingly, we adhere to a set of business principles including a commitment to human rights principles.
The Group has policies in place to support these principles which include non-discrimination, health and safety, anti-bribery, human slavery and trafficking and environmental issues.
We maintain a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and a programme of internal training is in place to ensure that all colleagues are aware of the Groups policies.
