Board Committees Board and Committee meeting attendance The Board delegates certain matters to various Committees, Details of the number of meetings of the Companys Board each with their own Board approved Terms of Reference and Committees held during the year and the attendance which are reviewed annually.
The Board has four Committees, of each Director in office between 1 January 2016 and 31 Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk: all of their Terms December 2016 at those meetings set out below.
Information of Reference were reviewed by the relevant Committee on the role and responsibility of each Committee are provided and approved by the Board.
The principal activities of each in their respective reports on pages 62 to 74.
Committee are set out in their respective reports on pages Committee 62 to 74.
Board and Committee meetings are structured to Board Audit Nom Rem Risk allow sufficient time for consideration of all items and each Total meetings Chairman encourages constructive debate and challenge.
held 12 7 3 5 4 Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other Mike Fairey 12 3 4 independent professional advice if required.
The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board on matters considered Gary Hoffman 12 3 by each Committee at the subsequent Board meeting as Richard Hoskins 12 1 appropriate.
AllDirectors have access to the minutes of Alison Burns 6 3 3 eachCommittee.
Teresa Robson- 1 Capps 6 4 2 The membership of Committees is a matter for the full Board Thomas Colraine 12 7 3 5 upon recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Each 2 Ian Cormack 10 6 3 1 of the Board Committees comprises solely Non-Executive 3 Malcolm Le May 12 2 5 4 Directors, with the exception of the Nomination Committee, Pierre Lefevre 12 7 4 of which the Chief Executive Officer is a member.
Each Richard Brewster 10 3 Committee is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director: the Nomination Committee is chaired by the Edward Fitzmaurice 12 5 Chairman of the Board.
The current membership of each Sumit Rajpal 11 3 5 Board Committee can be found on pages 46 to 48.
Executive Michele Titi-Cappelli 12 4 Directors, members of management and professional advisers 1 A lison Burns and Teresa Robson-Capps were appointed to the Board in July also attend meetings of the Committees when required to do 2016: their attendance record reflects the number of meetings attended so by the chair of the relevant Committee.
2 U pon the appointment of Alison Burns to the Risk Committee, Ian Cormack stepped down as Committee member in July 2016.
The Terms of Reference for the Committees can be found 3 U pon the appointment of Teresa Robson-Capps to the Audit Committee, atwww.
com company-information corporateMalcolm Le May stepped down as Committee member in July 2016. governance.
The Non-Executives met twice during the year without the presence of the Chairman and or Executive Directors.
