Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report andthe Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and those regulations.
Parent Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Financial Statements in accordance with International integrity of the corporate and financial information included Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may Company Financial Statements on the same basis.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give of the annual financial report a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the preparing each of the Group and Parent Company Financial applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Statements, the Directors are required to: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or select suitable accounting policies and then apply them loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consistently: consolidation taken as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the prudent: development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the state whether they have been prepared in accordance with consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description IFRS as adopted by the EU: and of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group We consider the Annual Report and Group and Parent and the Parent Company will continue in business.
Company Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain and performance, business model and strategy.
the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Anthony S Leppard Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have Company Secretary general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 1 March 2017 prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
