Other information continued Glossary 4Cs Gross written premiums Colleagues, Customers, Company and Community.
The Groups Total premiums the Group expects to receive over the life cultural approach that defines decision making processes and of insurance contracts underwritten by Underwriting.
is before ceding to the Groups reinsurers their share of premiums and includes the Groups portion of premiums Accident year loss ratio under co-insurance agreements.
Accident year loss ratio is defined as net claims incurred LCP intheperiod divided by net earned premiums.
Live Customer Policies: the number of active policies.
For historic periods, the figures used are adjusted to reflect the underlying performance of the business by excluding Net claims incurred the effects of acquisition accounting.
The Group has also Net claims incurred represents claims expensed in the period incorporated adjustments to net earned premiums in these less the portion of claims covered by the Groups reinsurers.
periods due to changes in quota share contracts, to enable comparisons to be made with 2015.
Net earned premiums Net earned premiums represent gross earned premiums after Calendar year loss ratio deducting earned premiums ceded to reinsurers.
Calendar year loss ratio is the accident year loss ratio adjusted to include the impact of prior year development of claims and Net written premiums PPO reserves.
Gross written premiums less the portion of written premiums ceded to the Groups panel of reinsurers.
Claims reserves The Groups technical claims reserves represent the estimated Ogden rate ultimate cost of its exposure to claims and expenses against The Ogden rate is a discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor business which was previously underwritten.
and used by UK courts in the calculation of lump sum settlement awards.
Co-insurance An agreement between more than one insurer to PCW underwrite an insurance contract.
Each co-insurer receives Price comparison websites.
a pre-determined portion of the benefit and risk from the underwritten contract.
PPO Periodic Payment Orders are a type of compensation award, Combined operating ratio in existence in the UK since 2005, in respect of catastrophic Combined operating ratio is the sum of the calendar year loss personal injury claims.
Instead of paying a claimant a single ratio and expense ratio.
lump sum, PPOs involve making a series of regular payments topay for the individuals care costs for the rest of his or her life.
Expense ratio Expense ratio is a measure of incurred operational and Profit commission acquisition expenses, net of certain reinsurance commissions, Performance-based payments from reinsurers based expressed relative to net earned premiums.
For historic periods, the figures used are adjusted to reflect Reinsurance the underlying performance of the business by excluding Agreement with a panel of insurers whereby the Group the effects of acquisition accounting.
The Group has also mitigates its risk of losses from claims by transmitting a portion incorporated adjustments to net earned premiums and of risk in exchange for a portion of premium.
The Group utilises reinsurance commissions in these periods due to changes reinsurance on a quota share basis a percentage share of in quota share contracts, to enable comparisons to be made premiums, claims and expenses and excess of lossbasis with 2015. fullreinsurance for claims over an agreed value.
Group Retail The combined operations of Hastings Group Holdings plc and The Groups retail business, Hastings Insurance Services its subsidiaries.
Limited, trading as Hastings Direct, based in Bexhill, England.
Gross earned premiums Underwriting Gross written premiums in the current and prior periods The Groups Underwriting business, Advantage Insurance recognised over the life of the underlying insurance contracts.
Company Limited, based in Gibraltar.
