OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 115 18.
Cash and cash equivalents In s million 2016 2015 Cash at bank and in hand 62.9 69.8 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 1.0% 2015: 1.3%.
The average maturity of short-term deposits was one day 2015: one day.
Capital management The Boards priorities for free cash flow are to fund the Groups investment and development, maintain a strong balance sheet and deliver a sustainable dividend at a level that is affordable and appropriate.
The Board targets a dividend cover range of 2.0x to 3.0x, and remains committed to paying a sustainable and progressive dividend.
Further details can be found in the Financial Review on page 41.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net cash debt, which is represented by cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and overdrafts note 20 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 24 to 29.
The Group is not restricted to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Risk management A description of the Groups treasury policy and controls is included in the Financial Review on page 41.
Cash management and foreign exchange risk The Groups cash management policy is to minimise interest payments by closely managing Group cash balances and external borrowings.
Euro-denominated cash positions are managed centrally using a cash pooling facility which provides visibility over participating country bank balances on a daily basis.
Any Group surplus balance is used to repay any maturing loans under the Groups revolving credit facility or invested in overnight money market funds.
As the Group holds a sterling denominated debt facility and generates significant foreign currency cash flows, the Board considers it appropriate in certain cases to use derivative financial instruments as part of its day-to-day cash management to reduce the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Groups operating profit exposure to foreign currency translation is primarily in respect of the Euro and the Australian Dollar.
The sensitivity of a 1 cent change in the average exchange rates for the year in respect of the Euro and Australian Dollar would result in a 0.7 million and 0.2 million change in operating profit respectively.
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance sheet and income statement translation exposure.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate bank loans and overdrafts.
It is the Groups policy to limit its exposure to fluctuating interest rates by selectively hedging interest rate risk using derivative financial instruments.
Cash and cash equivalents carry interest at floating rates based on local money market rates.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk arises primarily from the investment of surplus funds.
Risks are closely monitored using credit ratings assigned to financial institutions by international credit rating agencies.
The Group restricts transactions to banks and money market funds that have an acceptable credit profile and limits its exposure to each institution accordingly.
Derivative financial instruments In s million 2016 2015 Derivative asset 6.6 Derivative liability Net derivative asset 6.6 As set out in note 18 and in the Treasury management section of the Financial Review on page 41, in certain cases the Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its foreign exchange exposures as part of its day-to-day cash management.
As at 30 June 2016, the Group had entered into eight forward exchange contract arrangements with counterparty banks 2015: eight forward contracts.
The fair market value of the contracts as at 30 June 2016 gave rise to an unrealised gain resulting in the presentation of a net derivative asset of 6.6 million 2015: nil in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Some of the derivative assets and liabilities meet the offsetting criteria of IAS 32 paragraph 42.
Consequently, the qualifying gross derivative liabilities are set off against the qualifying gross derivative assets.
The derivative liabilities not qualifying for offset is less than the rounding factor presented in the financial statements and thus presented as nil 2015: nil.
