Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 100 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1.
Significant accounting policies effective 1 January 2016 IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Hays plc is a Company incorporated in the a.
Basis of preparation Investment Entities Applying the United Kingdom and registered in England The Consolidated Financial Statements have Consolidated Exemption effective from and Wales and its registered office is 250 been prepared on the historical cost basis 1 January 2016 Euston Road, London NW1 2AF.
with the exception of financial instruments.
IFRS 11 amendments Accounting for Financial instruments have been recorded Acquisitions of Interests in Joint The Consolidated Financial Statements initially on a fair-value basis and then at Operations effective 1 January 2016 have been prepared in accordance with amortised cost.
IAS 1 amendments Presentation of International Financial Reporting Standards Financial Statements effective from IFRSs and IFRS Interpretation Committee b.
Going concern 1 January 2016 interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the The Groups business activities, together IAS 16 and IAS 38 amendment European Union and therefore comply with with the factors likely to effect its future Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Article 4 of the European Union International development, performance and viability are Depreciation and Amortisation effective Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 9 1 January 2016 to 45.
The financial position of the Group, IAS 27 amendments Equity Method in New standards and interpretations its cash flows and liquidity position are Separate Financial Statements effective The Consolidated Financial Statements have described in the Financial Review on pages from 1 January 2016 been prepared on the basis of the accounting 38 to 41.
In addition, notes 18 to 20 to the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 policies and methods of computation Consolidated Financial Statements include effective 1 January 2016 applicable for the year ended 30 June 2016. details of the Groups treasury activities, IAS 12 amendments Income Taxes These accounting policies are consistent long-term funding arrangements and effective from 1 January 2017 with those applied in the preparation of the exposure to financial risk.
IAS 7 amendments Statement of Cash accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 Flows on Disclosure Initiative effective with the exception of the following new The Group has sufficient financial resources from 1 January 2017 accounting standards, amendments and which, together with internally generated IFRS 2 amendments Share Based interpretations which were mandatory for cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient Payments effective 1 January 2018 accounting periods beginning on or after sources of liquidity to fund its current IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015, none of which had any operations, including its contractual and 1 January 2018 material impact on the Groups results or commercial commitments and any proposed IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts and financial position.
Therefore the Group is well placed Customer effective 1 January 2018 to manage its business risks.
IFRS 15 amendments Revenue from IAS 19 amendments Employee Benefits Contracts and Customer effective EU adoption from 1 February 2015 After making enquiries the directors have 1 January 2018 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 formed the judgment that at the time of IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 EU adoption from 1 February 2015 approving the Consolidated Financial Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2013 Statements there is a reasonable expectation The directors are currently evaluating the EU adoption from 1 January 2015 that the Group has adequate resources to impact of the adoption of these standards, continue in operational existence for the amendments and interpretations but do not There have been no alterations made to the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the expect them to have a material impact on accounting policies as a result of considering directors continue to adopt the going the Group operation or results with the all IFRS and IFRIC amendments and concern basis in preparing the Consolidated exception of IFRS 16 Leases.
IFRS 16 will interpretations that became effective during Financial Statements.
primarily change the lease accounting the financial year, as these were either not requirement for lessees as currently material to the Groups operation, or were c. Basis of consolidation disclosed in note 32 to the Consolidated not relevant.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the Financial Statements.
date on which power to control is transferred The Group has not yet adopted certain new to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from The Groups principal accounting policies standards, amendments and interpretations the date on which control ceases.
adopted in the presentation of these to existing standards, which have been financial statements are set out below and published but which are only effective for The acquisition method of accounting is used have been consistently applied to all the our accounting periods beginning on or after to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries periods presented.
These new pronouncements are by the Group whereby the identifiable listed as follows: assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The financial statements consolidate the accounts of Hays plc and all of its subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
