Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 100 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1.
Significant accounting policies effective 1 January 2016 IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Hays plc is a Company incorporated in the a.
Basis of preparation Investment Entities Applying the United Kingdom and registered in England The Consolidated Financial Statements have Consolidated Exemption effective from and Wales and its registered office is 250 been prepared on the historical cost basis 1 January 2016 Euston Road, London NW1 2AF.
with the exception of financial instruments.
IFRS 11 amendments Accounting for Financial instruments have been recorded Acquisitions of Interests in Joint The Consolidated Financial Statements initially on a fair-value basis and then at Operations effective 1 January 2016 have been prepared in accordance with amortised cost.
IAS 1 amendments Presentation of International Financial Reporting Standards Financial Statements effective from IFRSs and IFRS Interpretation Committee b.
Going concern 1 January 2016 interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the The Groups business activities, together IAS 16 and IAS 38 amendment European Union and therefore comply with with the factors likely to effect its future Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Article 4 of the European Union International development, performance and viability are Depreciation and Amortisation effective Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 9 1 January 2016 to 45.
The financial position of the Group, IAS 27 amendments Equity Method in New standards and interpretations its cash flows and liquidity position are Separate Financial Statements effective The Consolidated Financial Statements have described in the Financial Review on pages from 1 January 2016 been prepared on the basis of the accounting 38 to 41.
In addition, notes 18 to 20 to the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 policies and methods of computation Consolidated Financial Statements include effective 1 January 2016 applicable for the year ended 30 June 2016. details of the Groups treasury activities, IAS 12 amendments Income Taxes These accounting policies are consistent long-term funding arrangements and effective from 1 January 2017 with those applied in the preparation of the exposure to financial risk.
IAS 7 amendments Statement of Cash accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 Flows on Disclosure Initiative effective with the exception of the following new The Group has sufficient financial resources from 1 January 2017 accounting standards, amendments and which, together with internally generated IFRS 2 amendments Share Based interpretations which were mandatory for cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient Payments effective 1 January 2018 accounting periods beginning on or after sources of liquidity to fund its current IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015, none of which had any operations, including its contractual and 1 January 2018 material impact on the Groups results or commercial commitments and any proposed IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts and financial position.
Therefore the Group is well placed Customer effective 1 January 2018 to manage its business risks.
IFRS 15 amendments Revenue from IAS 19 amendments Employee Benefits Contracts and Customer effective EU adoption from 1 February 2015 After making enquiries the directors have 1 January 2018 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 formed the judgment that at the time of IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 EU adoption from 1 February 2015 approving the Consolidated Financial Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2013 Statements there is a reasonable expectation The directors are currently evaluating the EU adoption from 1 January 2015 that the Group has adequate resources to impact of the adoption of these standards, continue in operational existence for the amendments and interpretations but do not There have been no alterations made to the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the expect them to have a material impact on accounting policies as a result of considering directors continue to adopt the going the Group operation or results with the all IFRS and IFRIC amendments and concern basis in preparing the Consolidated exception of IFRS 16 Leases.
IFRS 16 will interpretations that became effective during Financial Statements.
primarily change the lease accounting the financial year, as these were either not requirement for lessees as currently material to the Groups operation, or were c. Basis of consolidation disclosed in note 32 to the Consolidated not relevant.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the Financial Statements.
date on which power to control is transferred The Group has not yet adopted certain new to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from The Groups principal accounting policies standards, amendments and interpretations the date on which control ceases.
adopted in the presentation of these to existing standards, which have been financial statements are set out below and published but which are only effective for The acquisition method of accounting is used have been consistently applied to all the our accounting periods beginning on or after to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries periods presented.
These new pronouncements are by the Group whereby the identifiable listed as follows: assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The financial statements consolidate the accounts of Hays plc and all of its subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 101 g. Foreign currencies Payments to defined contribution schemes All intra-Group transactions, balances, On consolidation, the tangible and are charged as an expense in the Consolidated income and expenses are eliminated intangible assets and liabilities of subsidiaries Income Statement as they fall due.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at i. Share-based payments d. Turnover the balance sheet date.
Income and expense The fair value of all share-based remuneration Turnover is measured at the fair value of items are translated into sterling at average that is assessed upon market-based the consideration received or receivable and rates of exchange for the period.
Any performance criteria is determined at the represents amounts receivable for goods exchange differences which have arisen from date of grant and recognised as an expense and services provided in the normal course an entitys investment in a foreign subsidiary, in the Consolidated Income Statement on of business, net of discounts, VAT and other including long-term loans, are recognised as a straight-line basis over the vesting period, sales-related taxes.
a separate component of equity and are taking account of the estimated number included in the Groups translation reserve.
Turnover arising from the placement of permanent candidates is recognised at the On disposal of a subsidiary, any amounts The fair value of all share-based remuneration time the candidate commences full-time employment.
Provision is made for the transferred to the translation reserve that is assessed upon non-market-based expected cost of meeting obligations where are included in the calculation of profit performance criteria is determined at the date employees do not work for the specified and loss on disposal.
All other translation of the grant and recognised as an expense contractual period.
differences are dealt with in the Consolidated in the Consolidated Income Statement over Income Statement.
the vesting period, based on the number of Turnover arising from temporary placements shares that are expected to vest.
The number is recognised over the period that temporary Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising of shares that are expected to vest is adjusted workers are provided.
Where the Group on the acquisition of a foreign entity are accordingly to the satisfaction of the is acting as a principal, turnover represents treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign performance criteria at each period end.
the amounts billed for the services of entity and translated at the closing rate.
the temporary workers, including the The fair values are determined by use of the remuneration costs of the temporary workers.
h. Retirement benefit costs relevant valuation models.
All share-based The expense of defined benefit pension remuneration is equity settled.
Where Hays acts as principal in schemes and other post-retirement arrangements that invoice on behalf of other employee benefits is determined using the j.
Borrowing costs recruitment agencies, turnover represents projected-unit credit method and charged Interest costs are recognised as an expense amounts invoiced and collected on behalf to the Consolidated Income Statement as in the Consolidated Income Statement of other recruitment agencies, including an expense, based on actuarial assumptions in the period in which they are incurred.
arrangements where no commission is reflecting market conditions at the beginning Arrangement fees incurred in respect of directly receivable by the Group.
All remeasurement borrowings are amortised over the term gains and losses are recognised immediately of the agreement.
Where the Group is acting as an agent, in reserves and reported in the Consolidated turnover represents commission receivable Statement of Comprehensive Income in the k. Taxation relating to the supply of temporary workers period in which they occur.
Past service The tax expense comprises both current and does not include the remuneration costs costs, curtailments and settlements are and deferred tax.
recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable e. Net fees profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from Net fees represent turnover less the The Group has chosen under IFRS 1 to net profit as reported in the Consolidated remuneration costs of temporary workers for recognise in retained earnings all cumulative Income Statement because it excludes items temporary assignments and remuneration remeasurement gains and losses as at of income or expense that are taxable or of other recruitment agencies.
For the 1 July 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
deductible in other years and it further placement of permanent candidates, net The Group has chosen to recognise all excludes items that are never taxable or fees are equal to turnover.
remeasurement gains and losses arising deductible.
The Groups liability for current subsequent to 1 July 2004 in reserves and tax is calculated using tax rates that have f. Exceptional items reported in the Consolidated Statement of been enacted or substantively enacted Exceptional items as disclosed on the face Comprehensive Income.
by the balance sheet date.
of the Consolidated Income Statement are items which due to their size and The retirement benefit obligation recognised non-recurring nature have been classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheet represents separately in order to draw them to the the present value of the defined benefit attention of the reader of the financial obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past statements and to show the underlying service cost, and as reduced by the fair value profits of the Group.
There are no exceptional of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from items disclosed within the financial this calculation is limited to past service cost, statements in the current or prior year.
plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contribution to the scheme.
Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 102 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED l. Goodwill n. Property, plant and equipment 2.
Significant accounting policies Goodwill arising on consolidation represents Property, plant and equipment is recorded continued the excess of purchase consideration less at cost, net of depreciation and any provision the fair value of the identifiable tangible for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a Deferred tax is provided in full on all and intangible assets and liabilities acquired.
straight-line basis over the anticipated useful temporary differences, at rates that are working lives of the assets, after they have enacted or substantively enacted by the Goodwill is recognised as an asset and been brought into use, at the following rates: balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets reviewed for impairment at least annually.
are recognised only to the extent that it is For the purpose of impairment testing, Freehold land probable that taxable profits will be available assets are grouped at the lowest level No depreciation is provided against which to offset the deductible for which there are separately identifiable Freehold buildings temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets cash flows, known as cash-generating At rates varying between 2% and 10% and liabilities are offset when there is a units CGUs.
Any impairment is recognised Leasehold properties legally enforceable right to set off current immediately in the Consolidated Income The cost is written off over the unexpired tax assets against current tax liabilities and Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
term of the lease when they relate to income taxes levied by Plant and machinery the same taxation authority and the Group On disposal of a business the attributable At rates varying between 5% and 33% intends to settle its current tax assets and amount of goodwill is included in the Fixtures and fittings liabilities on a net basis.
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
At rates varying between 10% and 25% Temporary differences arise where there is a Goodwill arising on acquisitions before o.
Trade and other receivables difference between the accounting carrying the date of transition to IFRS 1 July 2004 Trade and other receivables are initially value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet has been retained at the previous UK GAAP measured at fair value and then at amortised and the amount attributed to that asset amounts, subject to being tested for cost after appropriate allowances for or liability for tax purposes.
Temporary impairment at that date.
Goodwill arising on estimated irrecoverable amounts have been differences arising from goodwill and, except acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 was written recognised in the Consolidated Income in a business combination, the initial off direct to reserves under UK GAAP.
This Statement where there is objective evidence recognition of assets or liabilities that affect goodwill has not been reinstated and is not that the asset is impaired.
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit, included in determining any subsequent are not provided for.
Deferred tax liabilities profit or loss on disposal.
p. Cash and cash equivalents are recognised for taxable temporary Cash and cash equivalents comprise differences arising on investments in m. Intangible assets cash-in-hand and current balances with subsidiaries and associates except where the Intangible assets acquired as part of a business banks and similar institutions, which are Group is able to control the reversal of the combination are stated in the Consolidated readily convertible to known amounts of temporary differences and it is probable that Balance Sheet at their fair value as at the date cash and which are subject to insignificant the temporary difference will not reverse in of acquisition less accumulated amortisation risk of changes in value.
and any provision for impairment.
The directors review intangible assets for indications of q.
Trade payables The calculation of the Groups total tax impairment annually.
Trade payables are measured initially at fair charge necessarily involves a degree of value and then at amortised cost.
estimation and judgment in respect of Internally generated intangible assets are certain items whose tax treatment cannot be stated in the Consolidated Balance Sheet r. Bank borrowings finally determined until resolution has been at the directly attributable cost of creation Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as of the asset, less accumulated amortisation.
are recorded initially at fair value and appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Intangible assets are amortised on a subsequently measured at amortised cost.
straight-line basis over their estimated useful Provisions for tax contingencies require lives up to a maximum of 10 years.
Software Finance charges, including premiums management to make judgments and incorporated into major Enterprise Resource payable on settlement or redemption and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and Planning ERP implementations that direct-issue costs, are accounted for on an exposures.
Amounts provided are based on support the recruitment process and accrual basis in the Consolidated Income managements interpretation of applicable financial reporting process is amortised over Statement using the effective interest rate tax law and the likelihood of settlement, and a life of up to seven years.
Other software method and are added to the carrying are derived from the Groups best estimation is amortised between three and five years.
amount of the instrument to the extent that and judgment.
However, the inherent they are not settled in the period in which uncertainty regarding the outcome of these they arise.
items means the eventual resolution could differ from the provision and in such event the Group would be required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period.
