Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 134 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrar Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders: The Companys registrar is: Service What it offers How to participate Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing Shareholder You can access details of your You can register at West Sussex BN99 6DA service shareholding and a range of other www.
Enquiries relating You can inform Equiniti of lost share Please contact Equiniti.
1 Telephone: 0371 384 2843 to your certificates, dividend warrants or tax International: 44 121 415 7047 shareholding vouchers, change of address or if Textphone: 0371 384 2255 you would like to transfer shares to another person.
ID fraud and unsolicited mail Dividend payments Dividends may be paid directly into your Complete a dividend Share-related fraud and identity theft affects bank or building society account.
Tax bank mandate shareholders of many companies and we vouchers will continue to be sent to the instruction form which urge you to be vigilant.
If you receive any shareholders registered address.
can be downloaded from unsolicited mail offering advice, you should www.
co. uk or inform Equiniti immediately.
Dividend payment Equiniti can convert your dividend in For more details As the Companys share register is, by law, direct to bank over 83 currencies to over 90 countries please visit open to public inspection, shareholders may account for worldwide and send it directly to your www.
co. uk receive unsolicited mail from organisations overseas bank account.
that use it as a mailing list.
To reduce the shareholders amount of unsolicited mail you receive, contact the Mailing Preference Service, Dividend The Company has a DRIP to allow Further information is FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
Reinvestment Plan shareholders to reinvest the cash available from the Share Telephone: 0845 703 4599 or 020 7291 3310.
DRIP dividend that they receive in Hays plc Dividend helpline on Website: www.
uk shares on competitive dealing terms.
co. uk ShareGift Amalgamation If you receive more than one copy of the Please contact Equiniti.
ShareGift is a charity share donation of accounts Annual Report & Financial Statements, scheme for shareholders and is administered it could be because you have more by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is than one record on the register.
Equiniti especially useful for those shareholders can amalgamate your accounts into who wish to dispose of a small number of one record.
shares whose value makes it uneconomical Share dealing Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing, a service You can deal in your to sell on a normal commission basis.
2 service which allows you to sell your Hays plc shares on the internet Further information can be obtained from shares or add to your holding if you are or by phone.
If you wish to deal, you information about this will need your account shareholder service and for details Website reference number which appears on of the rates, log on to The Company has a corporate website at your share certificate.
com, which holds, amongst other dealing or telephone information, a copy of our latest Annual Alternatively, if you hold a share Equiniti on 0345 603 7037 Report & Financial Statements and copies certificate, you can also use any between 8.00am and of all announcements made over the last bank, building society or stockbroker 4.30pm, Monday 12 months.
offering share dealing facilities to buy to Friday.
Registered office Individual Savings Investors in Hays plc Ordinary shares For further information 250 Euston Road 2 Accounts ISAs may take advantage of a low-cost or to apply for an ISA or London individual savings account ISA and or investment account, visit NW1 2AF an investment account where they can Equinitis website at Registered in England & Wales no.
2150950 hold their Hays plc shares electronically.
co. uk Telephone: 44 0 20 7383 2266 The ISA and investment account are dealing or telephone operated by Equiniti Financial Services them on 0345 300 0430.
Company Secretary Limited and are subject to standard Doug Evans dealing commission rates.
com 1 Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
2 The provision of share dealing services is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in Investor Relations contact an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a professional independent David Walker, Head of Investor Relations financial adviser.
