OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 103 Level 3 fair value measurements are those s. Derivative financial instruments and 3.
Critical accounting judgments derived from valuation techniques that hedge accounting and key sources of estimation include inputs for the asset or liability that The Group may use certain derivative financial uncertainty are not based on observable market data instruments to reduce its exposure to interest unobservable inputs.
rate and foreign exchange movements.
The Critical accounting judgments Group held eight foreign exchange contracts Amounts deferred in equity are recognised Revenue recognition at the end of the current year to facilitate cash in the Consolidated Income Statement in The main areas of judgment in revenue management within the Group.
In the prior the same period in which the hedged item recognition relate to i cut-off as revenue year the Group held two interest rate swaps affects net income.
is recognised for permanent placements which have subsequently matured in the on the day a candidate starts work and current year.
The Group does not hold or Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued temporary placement income over the use derivative financial instruments for when a hedging instrument expires or is duration of the placement: and ii the speculative purposes.
sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer recognition of temporary contractual qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time arrangements where Hays act on a gross Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging basis rather than a net basis.
Turnover and and effective as hedges of future cash flows instrument recognised in equity is either Net fees are described in note 2 d and e are recognised directly in equity and any retained in equity until the firm commitment to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
ineffective portion is recognised immediately or forecasted transaction occurs, or where in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The a hedge transaction is no longer expected to Goodwill impairment Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge occur, is immediately credited or expensed Goodwill is tested for impairment at effectiveness, in accordance with IAS 39, in the Consolidated Income Statement.
In performing these tests and any relationship which has effectiveness assumptions are made in respect of future outside this range is deemed to be ineffective t. Leases growth rates and the discount rate to be and hedge accounting is suspended.
Leases where a significant portion of risks applied to the future cash flows of incomeand rewards of ownership are retained by generating units.
These assumptions are set The fair values of foreign exchange swaps the lessor are classified as operating leases out in note 13 to the Consolidated Financial are measured using inputs other than quoted by the lessee.
prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
It is the Rentals payable under operating leases Provisions in respect of recoverability Groups policy not to seek to designate these are charged to the Consolidated Income of trade receivables derivatives as hedges.
All derivative financial Statement on a straight-line basis over the As described in note 17, provisions for instruments not in a hedge relationship are lease term.
impairment of trade receivables have been classified as derivatives at fair value in the made.
In reviewing the appropriateness of income statement.
The fair value of longBenefits received and receivable as an these provisions, consideration has been term borrowing is calculated by discounting incentive to enter into an operating lease given to the ageing of the debt and the expected future cash flows at observable are recognised on a straight-line basis over potential likelihood of default, taking into market rates.
Provisions Estimation uncertainty The information below sets out how the A provision is recognised when the Group has Pension accounting Group determines fair value of various a present legal or constructive obligation as a Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the Group financial assets and financial liabilities.
result of a past event for which it is probable has recognised a pension deficit of 14.3 that an outflow of resources will be required million 2015: 58.7 million.
A number of The following provides an analysis of to settle the obligation and when the amount assumptions have been made in determining financial instruments that are measured can be reliably estimated.
If the effect is the pension deficit and these are described subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, material, provisions are determined by in note 22 to the Consolidated Financial grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the discounting the expected future cash flows at Statements.
degree to which the fair value is observable.
a pre-tax rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money Level 1 fair value measurements are those and the risks specific to the liability.
derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and
