Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 110 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Goodwill In s million 2016 2015 Cost At 1 July 198.4 170.6 Exchange adjustments 22.0 8.1 Additions during the year 35.9 At 30 June 220.4 198.4 Goodwill arising on business combinations is reviewed and tested on an annual basis or more frequently if there is indication that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill has been tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit CGU, including goodwill, with the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are as follows: Assumption How determined Operating profit The operating profit is based on the latest one-year forecasts for the CGUs approved by the Groups Management Board which are compiled using expectations of fee growth, consultant productivity and operating costs.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial forecasts approved by management and extrapolates cash flows in perpetuity based on the long-term growth rates and expected cash conversion rates.
Discount rates The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows range between 9.3% and 16.7% 2015: 9.0% and 13.3% reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money and the country risks specific to the relevant CGUs.
The discount rate applied to the cash flows of each of the Groups operations is generally based on the weighted average cost of capital WACC, taking into account adjustments to the risk-free rate for 10-year bonds issued by the government in the respective market.
Where government bond rates contain a material component of credit risk, high-quality local corporate bond rates may be used.
These rates are adjusted for a risk premium to reflect the increased risk of investing in equities and, where appropriate, the systematic risk of the specific Group operating company.
In making this adjustment, inputs required are the equity market risk premium that is the increased return required over and above a risk-free rate by an investor who is investing in the market as a whole and the risk adjustment, beta, applied to reflect the risk of the specific Group operating company relative to the market as a whole.
Growth rates The medium-term growth rates are based on management forecasts.
These are consistent with a minimum average estimated growth rate of 5.0% 2015: 5.0%, with the exception of the United Kingdom where an average of 2.0% has been applied for years two to five.
The growth estimates reflect a combination of both past experience and the macroeconomic environment, including GDP expectations driving fee growth.
The long-term growth rates are based on management forecasts, which are consistent with external sources of an average estimated growth rate of 2.0% 2015: 2.0%, reflecting a combination of GDP expectations and long-term wage inflation driving fee growth.
GDP growth is a key driver of our business, and is therefore a key consideration in developing long-term forecasts.
Wage inflation is also an important driver of net fees as net fees are derived directly from the salary level of candidates placed into employment.
Based on past experience a combination of these two factors is considered to be an appropriate basis for assessing long-term growth rates.
Management has determined that there has been no impairment to any of the CGUs and in respect of these a sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing recoverable amounts of goodwill.
This has been based on changes in key assumptions considered to be possible by management.
This included a change in the discount rate of up to 1% and changes in the long-term growth rate from Year 2 onwards between 0% and 2% in absolute terms.
The sensitivity analysis shows no impairment would arise under each scenario for any of the CGUs.
The Veredus business, which is part of the Continental Europe & Rest of World segment, was acquired in December 2014 and continues to perform well.
As a result the Group has made significant investments in the business to accelerate its growth in line with the Groups strategy to build a strong presence in the USA, and maximise the long-term growth opportunities available in the market.
As a consequence of this investment, the headroom on goodwill has decreased from the prior year.
Headroom based on the assumptions used in the goodwill calculation is 3.4 million arising on goodwill of 40.5 million.
The key assumption in determining the value-in-use calculation is the discount rate used, which is 13%.
An increase in the discount rate to 14% would result in no headroom.
