OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 131 Country of registration Hays Commercial Services B. V. Netherlands Hays Holdings B. V. Netherlands Hays Services B. V. Netherlands Hays Temp B. V. Netherlands Hays Specialist Recruitment NZ Limited New Zealand Hays Document Management Private Limited Pakistan Hays Poland sp.
z. o. o. Poland Hays Poland Centre of Excellence sp.
z. o. o. Poland Hays Recrutamento Seleccao e Empresa fide Trabalho Tempoario Unipessoal LDA Portugal Hays Specialist Recruitment Romania SRL Romania Hays Business Solutions Limited Liability Company Russia Hays IT Solutions Limited Liability Company Russia Hays Specialist Recruitment Limited Liability Company Russia Hays Specialist Recruitment P. T. E Limited Singapore Hays Business Services S. L Spain Hays Personnel Espana Empresa fide Trabajo Temporal SA Spain Hays Personnel Services Espana SA Spain Hays Specialist Recruitment AB Sweden Hays Schweiz AG Switzerland Hays FZ-LLC UAE 3 Story Software LLC United States of America Hays Holding Corporation United States of America Hays Specialist Recruitment LLC United States of America Hays Talent Solutions LLC United States of America Hays USA Holdings Inc United States of America Veredus Corporation 80% owned United States of America Veredus Government Solutions LLC 80% owned United States of America Veredus Holdings Inc 80% owned United States of America Veredus LLC 80% owned United States of America As at 30 June 2016, Hays plc and or a subsidiary or subsidiaries in aggregate owned 100% of each class of the issued shares of each of these companies with the exception of companies marked with an asterisk in which case each class of issued shares held was as stated.
Other related party transactions Hays plc has taken advantage of the exemption granted under paragraph 8 k of FRS 101 not to disclose transactions with fellow wholly owned subsidiaries.
Transactions entered into and trading balances outstanding that were owed to Hays plc at 30 June 2016 with other related parties was 1.7 million 2015: 0.1 million.
Subsequent events The final dividend for 2016 of 1.99 pence per share 28.7 million will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 9 November 2016 and has not been included as a liability as at 30 June 2016.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 11 November 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 14 October 2016.
Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 132
