OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 117 Interest rates The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 2016 2015 Bank borrowings 2.3% 2.5% For each 10 basis point fall or rise in the average LIBOR rate in the year there would be a reduction or increase in profit before tax by approximately 0.1 million.
Trade and other payables In s million 2016 2015 Current Trade creditors 170.0 116.6 Other tax and social security 65.1 66.2 Other creditors 25.5 34.3 Accruals 312.7 261.6 573.3 478.7 The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 29 days 2015: 30 days.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes in the UK and in other countries.
The Groups principal schemes are within the UK where the Group operates one defined contribution scheme and two defined benefit schemes.
The majority of overseas arrangements are either defined contribution or government-sponsored schemes and these arrangements are not material in the context of the Group results.
UK Defined Contribution Scheme The Groups principal defined contribution retirement benefit scheme is the Hays Group Personal Pension Plan which is operated for all qualifying employees and is funded via an employee salary sacrifice arrangement, and for qualifying employees additional employer contributions.
Employer contributions are in the range of 2% to 12% of pensionable salary depending on the level of employee contribution and seniority.
The total cost charged to the Consolidated Income Statement of 6.2 million 2015: 6.2 million represents employers contributions payable to the money purchase arrangements.
There were no contributions outstanding at the end of the year 2015: 0.5 million.
The assets of the money purchase arrangements are held separately from those of the Group.
UK Defined Benefit Schemes The Groups principal defined benefit schemes are the Hays Pension Scheme and the Hays Supplementary Scheme both in the UK.
The Hays Pension Scheme is a funded final salary defined benefit scheme providing pensions and death benefits to members.
The Hays Supplementary Scheme is an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme for employees who were subject to HMRCs earnings cap on pensionable salary.
The Schemes were closed to future accrual from 30 June 2012 with pensions calculated up until the point of closure.
The Schemes are governed by a trustee board, which is independent of the Group and is subject to full actuarial valuation on a triennial basis.
The last formal actuarial valuation of the Hays Pension Scheme was performed at 30 June 2015 and quantified the deficit at c. 95 million.
A revised deficit funding schedule was agreed with effect from 1 July 2015 which maintained the annual contribution at its previous level, subject to a 3% per annum fixed uplift over a period of just under 10 years.
During the year ended 30 June 2016, the Group made a contribution of 14.0 million to the Hays Pension Scheme 2015: 13.5 million in accordance with the agreed deficit funding schedule.
The cash contributions during the year mainly related to deficit funding payments.
Settlement arising from transfer exercise During the year a transfer exercise was undertaken.
A number of members included in this exercise elected to transfer out of the scheme to access the new flexible retirement options now available.
This resulted in 21.1 million being paid out of scheme assets to members in the form of individual transfer values and equated to a reduction in the associated IAS 19 liabilities of 19.5 million.
As the transfer eliminated all further legal and constructive obligations for all of the benefits under the scheme to these individuals, the resulting 1.6 million net settlement charge has been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and is recorded within staff costs.
The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity-specific or scheme-specific risks.
