4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 8 Section 2: Strategic Report Dividends are paid quarterly and have increased year-on-year since 2.1 APPROACH AND OBJECTIVES launch in 2006, with the Company having met or exceeded its The Company aims to be the preferred listed fund in Europe for dividend targets to date.
For the reported year, the dividend target investors seeking long term, stable income from infrastructure was 7.45p per share and the final interim dividend will be paid on assets.
It seeks to deliver high quality returns and market-leading 30 June 2016.
As guidance, the Board has set a revised target liquidity by managing and growing a portfolio that is positioned at distribution for the year to 31 March 2017 of 7.65p per share, the lower end of the risk spectrum.
HICL is structured as a closedand, a new dividend guidance of 7.85p per share for the year to ended, London Stock Exchange-listed investment company.
Through active management of the Groups existing project Total Return investments the Company earns a return that allows it to pay a The Companys secondary financial return objective is to preserve predictable and sustainable quarterly dividend to shareholders, as the capital value of its investment portfolio and deliver an element well as preserve the capital value of its portfolio.
In addition, through of capital growth, as reflected in its longer-term IRR return target of value enhancement initiatives focused on the existing portfolio and 7-8%, set at IPO.
careful selection and pricing of new investments, there is potential for an element of capital growth over the longer term.
This target has been achieved to date and the Directors believe that it remains achievable looking forward.
For the period since Approach Sectors, Geographies and Asset Characteristics 31 March 2015 until 31 March 2016, and from IPO until 31 March The Company is a buy-and-hold equity investor in infrastructure 2016, the total shareholder return has been 9.6% p. a. and 9.7% projects at the lower end of the risk spectrum.
To date the majority p. a. respectively, as measured by net asset value appreciation of the Companys investments have been structured under a public and dividends.
sector infrastructure procurement model e. g. public-private partnerships or PPPs.
These investments provide serviced Cash Cover and Inflation Correlation assets to public sector or quasi-public sector clients, across a An ability to pay cash-covered dividends and positive inflation number of sectors including road, rail, education, health, justice correlation are key attributes of the Groups operating cash flow and for other general accommodation needs such as libraries and receipts and attractions of the portfolio.
The yield profile and degree barracks.
The Company also selectively targets investments in of inflation correlation offered by new investment opportunities are projects with user-pays revenues and certain regulated assets.
considered as part of an assessment of whether prospective investments will be value accretive to the portfolio.
The majority of the Groups investments are in operational projects which have successfully completed their construction phase.
The Ongoing Charges portfolio as at 17 May 2016 comprises 104 investments including Finally, the Board is committed to offering shareholders a one conditional commitment which are in projects located primarily competitive investment proposition through management of efficient in the UK, but also in Australia, Canada, France, Ireland and gross portfolio level to net investor level returns.
This is achieved The Netherlands.
through low ongoing charges relative to the Companys peer group, with the intention to reduce such charges where possible.
Further detail is provided in Section 2.3 Business Model, Organisational Structure and Processes.
Quality-based Objectives Important additional objectives to protect shareholders interests are: Objectives The corporate objectives have been restated to more concisely n to maintain a diversified portfolio of investments e. g. by reflect the Companys investment proposition.
There have been no reference to single asset and or counterparty concentration changes of substance, the intent being to use specific, outputand thereby mitigate concentration risk: based statements to assist with the measurement of the Companys performance in each reporting period, and therefore n to make value accretive investments in line with the risk-appetite enhance shareholder understanding of the value delivered.
The of the Company and consistent with its Investment Policy: objectives of the Company are categorised as follows: n to target long-term, predictable cash flow receipts from the portfolio by seeking where possible assets that maintain or Performance-based Objectives extend the weighted average unexpired portfolio concession life: Dividends n to maintain effective treasury management processes, notably The Companys principal financial return objective is to offer a long with respect to foreign exchange risk and efficient cash term, sustainable income for shareholders.
This is delivered through management: and the Companys dividend target an annual distribution of at least n to manage the Groups exposure to refinancing risk.
that paid during the prior financial year with the prospect of increasing the figure provided it is sustainable with regard to the portfolios forecast operational performance and the prevailing macro-economic outlook.
