4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 11 Separately to the above, the Group may invest up to 35% of its Revenue gross assets at the time of investment in: The majority of the assets in which the Group has invested to date are structured under a public sector infrastructure procurement n projects that have not yet completed construction: model public-private partnership or PPP.
This model has been successfully employed by a number of countries over the last 20 n projects with demand-based concessions where the Investment years to procure new infrastructure investment.
The asset class Adviser considers that demand and stability of revenues are not affords a number of attractive features for the equity investor.
The yet established but that, due to the levels of diligence and analysis principal feature is the quality and predictability of the underlying undertaken, the revenue risks are acceptable to the Group: revenue stream once construction completion is achieved and the n projects which do not have public sector sponsored awarded or asset is operational, which provides significant protection from government-backed concessions: and or economic cycles and competitive pressures.
The key characteristics n to a lesser extent, other funds that make infrastructure of these infrastructure projects, including this feature of the revenue investments and or financial instruments and securities issued stream, are as follows: by companies that make infrastructure investments, or whose activities are similar or comparable to infrastructure investments.
n provision of assets procured by the public sector to meet essential public service needs: In terms of geographic focus, the Group may make investments in n service obligations which include the projects financing, build, the UK, other European Union markets, Norway, Switzerland, the operation and maintenance and the associated standards are Americas and selected territories in Asia and Australasia.
The Group stipulated and structured through long-term concession may also make investments in other markets should suitable contracts: projects have limited, if any, residual value at the end opportunities arise.
The Group seeks to mitigate country risk by of the concession life: concentrating on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where it n following build completion and asset availability, regular, considers that contract structures and legal enforceability are reliable contracted availability-based payments are made by the and where public sector obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating.
public sector client to the project company, subject to the pre-determined contractual service standards being met or with To achieve a diversified portfolio, the Company will ensure each incremental deductions for each and any shortfall: and new investment acquired does not have an acquisition value or, if it is an additional stake in an existing investment, does not have a n availability-based payments benefit from inflation-linkage combined value of both the existing and additional stake greater partially or fully.
than 20% of the total gross assets of the Company immediately post acquisition.
Further, the Company will ensure that the resulting As part of its Acquisition Strategy, the Company may make portfolio of investments has a range of public sector clients and investments in demand-based projects, where the underlying supply chain counterparts, in order to avoid over-reliance on either revenue stream varies according to the volume or usage demands a single client or a single contractor.
of the end-user, as opposed to its availability.
Examples of these are toll roads and certain student accommodation projects.
Income It is expected that certain new investments to be sourced by the streams are inherently less certain due to volatility in, for example, Investment Adviser will have been originated and developed by, traffic volumes: however rigorous research and modelling together and may be acquired from, a fund managed by the Investment with trading history, where available, should enable the income Adviser or its affiliates.
The Group has put in place appropriate profile to be forecast with a reasonable degree of accuracy.
In procedures to deal with potential conflicts of interest in these addition, these user-pay projects benefit HICL by offering scenarios.
Further information can be found in the Corporate diversification of counterparties.
Currently the portfolio has limited exposure to demand risk, 2.3 BUSINESS MODEL, ORGANISATIONAL principally through the investment in the University of Sheffield STRUCTURE AND PROCESSES Accommodation project where revenues are linked to occupancy levels, albeit with contractual mitigation for low demand scenarios.
Business Model The Groups conditional investment in the A63 Motorway project in The Company receives equity cash flows from a diversified portfolio France, which is due to complete in early 2017 but is included in the of investments in underlying projects.
It seeks to distribute these gross portfolio valuation at 31 March 2016, will be the portfolios first receipts to shareholders while minimising the impact from Groupdemand risk investment with revenues derived from tolls.
The following sections summarise the key characteristics Section 2.6 Investment Portfolio for details of the gross portfolios of revenues and costs at project level which generate equity cash exposure to availability-based and demand-based projects.
flows at the lower end of the risk spectrum.
Equity cash flows for the purpose of this section mean risk capital cash flows, which Operating Costs may include shareholder loans as well as conventional equity Certainty of operating and capital costs associated with the project share interests.
is also important to forecast infrastructure equity returns.
In the case of social infrastructure projects, the costs associated with projects have pre-determined long-term contractual profiles, similar to the revenues, resulting in largely predictable investment cash flows for equity.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 11 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 12 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Typically the delivery of key services specified in the project agreement are sub-contracted to specialist providers.
Construction is performed by a construction company or companies in joint venture, if a large asset on the terms of a fixed priced, date-certain, turnkey contract.
The operational services are sub-contracted to one or more experienced facilities manager s specialising in a particular field e. g. catering: cleaning: security: mechanical and engineering maintenance.
The Groups portfolio of investments has a diversified range of facilities management FM companies.
Generally the project company vehicles do not have their own employees.
In a few cases day-to-day management is performed by an in-house team i. e. a small number of staff directly employed or seconded to the project company but, more typically, it is outsourced on a fixedprice contract.
The terms of these Management Service Agreement MSA contracts vary, but usually the lengths are between 3 and 5 years.
The service standard levels set out in the concession agreement and their key performance indicators KPIs are closely mirrored in the sub-contracts such that the operating risks are passed down to the individual sub-contractors who are best placed to manage those risks.
The term of the operating sub-contracts normally matches the term of the concession agreement and the costs of such services are largely fixed at the outset and subject to increases linked to inflation as reflected by the inflation-linked availability-based payment.
Key project costs, where the budget and the risk sits with the project company and therefore the equity investor, are generally the costs payable under the MSA contract, lifecycle costs and insurance premiums.
In some cases, the risk sits fully with the project company, whilst in other instances it may be partially or fully sub-contracted to the FM contractor.
The portfolios sensitivity to the largest of these risks, the lifecycle costs, is set out in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under the heading Valuation Sensitivities.
Project companies are liable to pay corporate tax on their profits in their home jurisdiction.
Project Financing Projects are typically leveraged with amortising debt with a tenor to match the projects concession life.
The interest rate on the debt is either fixed rate or inflation-linked, such that changes in interest rates are largely mitigated.
The debt raised for a project is secured against that projects cash flows alone, and so is non-recourse to both the Group and its other investments.
Most lenders require projects to withhold some cash in reserve accounts to pay for expected future capital expenditure as well as to potentially service debt if there are operating issues.
These cash balances are deposited across a spread of investment grade banks to mitigate default risk and the interest income, which is for the benefit of the project and hence the Groups investment, varies according to short-term deposit rates.
Equity Cash Flows from Projects Revenues whether availability-based payments from the public sector client or usage-based payments on demand-based projects are used to remunerate the equity investment in the project company once the senior debt service, operating costs and other expenses of the project company have been met.
Illustrative investment cash flow characteristics over a projects life availability-based payment income Typical Social Infrastructure Investment Cash Flow Prole Bidding Construction Operation & Maintenance Phase Phase Phase Equity Cash Flows Illustrative Chart Value Typical timing for investment by the Group 3 2 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Cash ow from Interest on and repayment of Shareholder loans, and equity distributions Increased equity dividend payments once senior debt Financial is repaid Close 12 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 13 As shown in the above chart capital, in the form of an equity investment, is committed to finance the construction phase of an availabilitybased project.
Typically senior debt is drawn first and the equity subscription amounts are invested towards the end of the construction phase.
Positive investment cash flow or income from an investment is generally received once the project is operational.
Larger payments flow to the equity investor during the last few years of a concession contract once senior debt is fully repaid.
This is illustrated in the increase in the cash flows at the end of the concession shown in the figure above.
The present value on a discounted cash flow basis of these residual cash flows should be significant enough to largely preserve the capital value of the investment until the distribution of these residual cash flows commences.
This is illustrated in the increase in future cash flows shown in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under the heading Investment Portfolio: Cash Flow Profile.
The chart below illustrates the profile of an equity investment in a demand-based investment.
In comparison to the availability-based chart above, the concession lives of projects are typically longer.
Further, cash flow profiles typically grow over time, principally due to the effect of long-term inflation which directly impacts the usage-based payments that comprise the projects revenues.
Differing from availability-based projects, there is a less marked pick-up in tail end cash flows due to more modest gearing levels and the earlier amortisation of senior debt relative to the overall concession length.
Illustrative investment cash flow characteristics over a projects life demand-based payment income Typical Toll Road Investment Cash Flow Prole Bidding Construction Ramp-Up Operation & Maintenance Steady State Phase Phase Illustrative Chart Equity Cash Flows Typical timing for investment by the Group 3 2 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 Financial Cash ow from Interest on and repayment of Shareholder loans, and equity distributions Increased equity dividend payments once senior debt is repaid Close Further details on the capital structuring of a typical infrastructure investment, and the largely predictable nature of both the revenue and costs, are in the Companys February 2013 Prospectus and its Infrastructure Primer Papers, available from the Companys website.
Group Financing, Gearing and Interest Rate Hedging The Boards policy is that the Company should not hold material amounts of un-invested cash beyond what is necessary to meet outstanding equity commitments for existing investments or to fund potential acquisitions in the near term.
New investments are typically funded initially by the Groups revolving credit facility.
The Board will consider the appropriate timing and price for the issuance of new shares to repay the debt, in consultation with the Companys broker.
The Groups multi-currency revolving credit facility RCF was refinanced in the year and is now jointly provided by HSBC, Lloyds Bank, National Australia Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation and The Royal Bank of Scotland.
It is a 200m facility with a term that runs until May 2019 and a margin of 1.70% previously 150m, margin: 2.20%.
It is available to be drawn in cash and letters of credit for future investment obligations.
To manage interest rate risk the Group may use interest rate swaps to hedge drawings under the Groups debt facility.
During the year the Group did not utilise any interest rate swaps.
Details of the new equity raised in the year to 31 March 2016 from tap issues and scrip dividend alternatives, together with figures for the Groups drawing under the RCF and the Groups gearing levels as defined by The Association of Investment Companies are set out in Section 2.4 Operational and Financial Review.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 13 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 14 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Group Foreign Exchange Hedging Foreign exchange risk from non-Sterling assets is managed by hedging investment income from overseas assets through the forward sale of the respective foreign currency for up to 24 months combined with balance sheet hedging through the forward sale of Euros and Canadian Dollars and by debt drawings under the Groups credit facility.
This has minimised the volatility in the Groups NAV from foreign exchange movements.
The hedging policy is designed to provide confidence in the near term yield and to limit NAV per share sensitivity to no more than 1% for a 10% forex movement.
Organisational Structure and Processes Introduction The Company is a Guernsey-registered investment company with an independent Board of Directors.
Its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is a self-managed non-EEA Alternative Investment Fund under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
At the year end, the Company owned indirectly a portfolio of 104 infrastructure investments including one conditional investment.
It is seeking to protect and enhance the value of the existing portfolio and to source appropriately-priced value accretive new investments using the expertise of its Investment Adviser, InfraRed Capital Partners Limited.
The Company has a 31 March year end and announces its full year results in May and interim results in November.
It also publishes two Quarterly Update Statements formerly Interim Management Statements each year, normally in February and July.
Group Structure The Group structure showing the main holding entities of the Group is set out below.
Third party Investors Management administration Independent Directors HICL Infrastructure Administrator Company Guernsey Guernsey company InfraRed Investment Adviser Administrator Luxco1 Sarl SOPARFI Independent Directors Luxembourg Luxco2 Limited partner, Sarl Independent Directors SOPARFI Equity Limited partner Services Management InfraRed Limited Partnership General partner, England Operator Holding Company England Underlying investments Each of the underlying investments is made by a special purpose vehicle not shown in the structure above to ensure no  of the liabilities being, principally, the debt repayment obligations.
The two Luxembourg entities Luxco1 and Luxco2 have independent Boards and take advice on administration matters from RSM FHG Associs.
The Investment Adviser owns the general partner of the UK Limited Partnership and manages the partnership through an operator agreement.
14 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 15 The Companys Board and the Committees Any investment proposition needs to be fully assessed and vetted The Board of the Company comprises seven independent, nonby InfraReds dedicated HICL Investment Committee, and this executive Directors details on whom can be found in Section 3 committee meets on a number of occasions before an investment Board of Directors whose role is to manage the Company in the is acquired for the Group.
Detailed commercial and technical due interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
In particular, the diligence is undertaken by the team.
Third party legal, technical Board approves and monitors adherence to the Investment Policy and insurance due diligence is commissioned as appropriate to and Acquisition Strategy, determines risk appetite, sets policies, support any acquisition.
Principal investigations ensure that agrees levels of delegation to key service providers and monitors projects are appropriately structured, that the pass-down of their activities and performance including, specifically, that of the obligations to subcontractors is adequate and that all material Investment Adviser against agreed objectives.
The Board will take counterparties are creditworthy.
advice from the Investment Adviser, where appropriate such as on matters concerning the market, the portfolio and new Asset and Portfolio Management acquisition opportunities.
See Section 6 Corporate Governance The Investment Advisers team includes a dedicated Asset Statement concerning the forthcoming departures from, and Management function.
The team members perform an important prospective recruits to, the Board.
role ensuring that new investments are integrated into the governance and reporting processes employed across the The Board meets regularly at least five times a year, each time for portfolio, as well as focusing on implementing asset-level business two consecutive days for formal Board and Committee meetings.
plans and monitoring project performance for service issues which As referenced in Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment Policy, one may indicate financial difficulties or strained relations with the client.
of these Board meetings is devoted to considering the strategy of the These goals are achieved by building and pro-actively maintaining Group, both in terms of potential acquisitions and the management good open relationships with all of the stakeholders who are of the current portfolio.
There are also a number of ad hoc meetings contractually associated with the Groups projects, especially dependent upon business needs.
In addition the Board has formed public sector clients and the facilities management teams five committees which manage risk and governance of the Company.
performing the day-to-day management under the MSA contracts see Operating Costs above.
Management of the portfolio, as well as investment decisions within agreed parameters, is delegated to InfraRed as the Investment Asset Managers are appointed as directors of the project Adviser, which reports regularly to the Board.
At the quarterly companies in which the Group invests, and all fees they charge for Board and committee meetings, the operating and financial such service accrue for the benefit of the Group not the Investment performance of the portfolio, its valuation and the appropriateness Adviser.
As part of their role in actively managing the portfolio they of the risk and controls are reviewed.
attend project company board meetings and work with management teams to ensure appropriate, good corporate The Investment Adviser governance and effective, smooth delivery of operations at project The Investment Adviser since launch is InfraRed Capital Partners level.
The Asset Manager will also play a key role negotiating Limited, authorised and regulated by the UKs Financial Conduct solutions to contractual issues and implementing corrective Authority, and part of the InfraRed Group.
Details of the InfraRed remedial measures if and when operational issues arise.
Material Group are set out below.
decisions are referred back to the Investment Advisers Investment Committee for consideration and determination.
The Company has an Investment Advisory Agreement with InfraRed which can be terminated with 12 months notice.
InfraRed Unlike some of its competitors, the Investment Adviser does not is also the operator of the Groups Limited Partnership, through use related parties for the provision of the management services to which the Groups investments are held.
Details of the fees paid to project companies.
Therefore the Investment Adviser is not InfraRed in respect of its Investment Adviser services are set out in conflicted when it seeks to negotiate the best prices with third party Section 2.4 Operational and Financial Review and Note 17 of the service providers on behalf of the project company and its clients.
As a consequence the Investment Adviser is fully aligned with the Company in seeking best possible prices under these contracts for Origination the services rendered.
This negotiation will be undertaken by the Potential investment opportunities are carefully screened, Asset Managers who will then, as an independent party, monitor including assessments of the counterparties and the jurisdiction, the operational performance delivered by the appointed facilities by the Investment Adviser to determine whether they are suitable manager to ensure compliance with the contractual standards for the Company.
demanded in the project agreements.
Portfolio Management duties are performed by another designated part of the Investment Advisers team.
The individuals will provide a wide range of tasks for the Group, including treasury and cash management, valuation work and related portfolio value enhancement initiatives.
A more detailed description is provided in Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment Policy, under the heading Value Enhancement.
