4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 BACK END.
qxp 3282 25 05 2016 11:28 Page 86 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 1.
Reporting Entity HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 March 2016 comprise the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries together the Group see Note 21.
In accordance with section 244 5 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as the Directors have prepared consolidated financial statements for the period, they have not prepared individual statements for the Company in accordance with section 243 for the period.
Pursuant to the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987 the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
As an authorised scheme, the Company is subject to certain ongoing obligations to the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Key Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2016.
The consolidated financial statements, which give a true and fair view, have been prepared in compliance with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except that the financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss are stated at their fair values.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently in these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions which have been applied in the preparation of these accounts.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has all the typical characteristics of an investment entity and meets the three essential criteria as defined in IFRS 10 and therefore the Company continues to apply Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS27.
In addition, certain subsidiaries provide specific investment management services and undertake investment activities that require the results of those subsidiaries to be consolidated in the Group financial statements.
The three essential investment entity criteria met by the Company are: 1.
It obtains funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing these investors with professional investment management services: 2.
It commits to its investors that its business purpose is to invest its funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income or both: and 3.
It measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
The International Accounting Standards Board IASB issued Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 in December 2014 stating that investment entities should measure at fair value all of their subsidiaries that are themselves investment entities.
This revision to the Investment Entity standard does not become effective to the Company until the financial year ending in March 2017 and it is not expected to impact either earnings or net assets.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Section 2.2 and 2.3 on pages 9 to 16.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in Sections 2.4 and 2.5 on pages 16 to 32.
In addition, Notes 1 to 4 of the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with various public sector customers and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
The financing for these projects is non-recourse to the Group.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks.
86 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 BACK END.
Key Accounting Policies continued a Basis of preparation continued The Directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next 12 months.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
New standards effective for the current year Standards and amendments to standards that became effective during the period are listed below.
These have no material impact on the reported performance or financial statements of the Group.
n Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle effective date not later than 1 February 2015 n Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 cycle effective date 1 January 2015 Standards not yet applied The Group notes the following amended and improved published standards and interpretations which were in issue at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements: n Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 see above in this Note for further details.
n IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 b Basis of consolidation In these consolidated financial statements the Company applied IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other entities.
The Company also applied Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS27 which requires entities that meet the definition of an investment entity to fair value relevant subsidiaries through the profit or loss rather than consolidate their results.
The Company has applied the Investment Entities amendment such that those entities that provide investment related services or activities to the Company continue to be consolidated, consistent with the prior year.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, except those required to be held at fair value, up to 31 March 2016.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
The Company has control of an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee as defined in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, except those held at fair value, are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line by line basis from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Associates are those entities over which the Company has significant influence as defined in IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28, investments in such entities are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Intra-Group receivables, liabilities, revenue and expenses are eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Gains that arise from intra-Group transactions and that are unrealised from the standpoint of the Group on the balance sheet date are eliminated in their entirety.
Unrealised losses on intra-Group transactions are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, to the extent that the loss does not correspond to an impairment loss.
c Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are fide-recognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the instrument expire or the asset or liability is transferred and the transfer qualifies for fide-recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
i Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value including directly attributable transaction costs, except for financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 87 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 BACK END.
qxp 3282 25 05 2016 11:28 Page 88 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2016 2.
Key Accounting Policies continued c Financial instruments continued Investments in equity and debt securities Investments in the equity and loanstock of entities engaged in infrastructure activities which are not classified as subsidiaries of the Group or which are subsidiaries not consolidated in the Group, are designated at fair value through profit or loss since the Group manages these investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
The initial difference between the transaction price and the fair value, derived from using the discounted cash flows methodology at the date of acquisition, is recognised only when observable market data indicates there is a change in a factor that market participants would consider in setting the price of that investment.
After initial recognition, investments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value of the consideration received, less transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the consolidated income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
ii Derivative financial instruments The Group holds derivative financial instruments to mitigate its foreign currency risk exposure.
All derivatives are recognised initially at fair value with attributable transaction costs recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Thereafter, derivatives are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of finance costs or finance income.
Fair value is based on price quotations from financial institutions active in the relevant market.
The Group does not use hedge accounting.
iii Fair values Fair values are determined using the income approach, except for derivative financial instruments, which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, regard is had to relevant long term government bond yields, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
iv Effective interest The effective interest rate is that rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the relevant financial assets or financial liabilitys carrying amount.
d Share capital and share premium Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Costs associated with the establishment of the Company or directly attributable to the issue of new shares that would otherwise have been avoided are written-off against the balance of the share premium account.
e Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash equivalents, including demand deposits, are held for the purpose of meeting shortterm cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
f Revenue Interest income is recognised in the consolidated income statement as it accrues on a time-apportioned basis, using the effective interest rate of the instrument concerned as calculated on acquisition or origination date.
Dividends are recognised when the Groups right to receive payment has been established.
Fees and other operating income are recognised when the Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Gains on investments relates solely to the investments held at fair value.
g Income tax Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
Dividend and interest income received by the Group may be subject to withholding tax imposed in the country of origin of such income.
