4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 9 Asset Management complements Portfolio Management and is 2.2 STRATEGY AND INVESTMENT POLICY focused on the successful management and operational The Companys strategy for delivering its target shareholder performance of the Groups investments at project level with a objectives can be segmented broadly into three areas, as follows: heavy focus on client engagement.
Activities include: n Active Management: the ongoing active management of the n management oversight of each investment through the Groups portfolio: appointment of at least one director to each project company n Value Enhancement: the enhancement of returns from the board to ensure quality service delivery: Groups portfolio: and n pro-actively building and maintaining closer, open stakeholder n New Investment: the selection and pricing of suitable new relationships at project company level, especially with respect to investments.
enhancing client satisfaction levels with overall operations: n facilitating early resolution of operational issues, including Each element is described in detail below but, in broad terms, contractual disputes, as they arise: active management and value enhancement initiatives aim to protect and improve the return that the Company seeks to deliver n where the project involves the construction of new facilities, to shareholders through cash-covered dividends from the existing frequent monitoring of progress to ensure successful build portfolio.
The appropriate pricing and selection of new investments delivery: and helps to deliver growth in the portfolios value, which would n overseeing environmental, social and enhanced governance otherwise trend down over time given the finite life and limited, if initiatives in each project company, where appropriate.
any, residual value of the long term concession contracts see Section 2.3 Business Model, Organisational Structure and Value Enhancement Processes for details.
The primary focus for the Investment Adviser is to ensure that each project performs to the required contractual standard that the client Active Management expects.
The secondary focus is to find and evaluate value Active Management embodies the role of value preservation.
Its enhancement opportunities typically potential savings and principal goal is to ensure that the day-to-day operations and efficiency upsides for both the project and its public sector client.
performance of the investments in the portfolio are delivered in This is achieved by the Investment Advisers Asset Management accordance with the contract terms and, accordingly, the and Portfolio Management teams based on a review of all the anticipated or base case investment return envisaged by the projects costs and by drawing on their experience of implementing Companys forecasts is achieved.
a range of similarly focused initiatives across the wider portfolio.
In any event, efficiencies and savings will only be implemented where InfraRed, as Investment Adviser, is tasked by the Board with the they do not detrimentally impact either the services being provided day-to-day management of the portfolio.
This management task is or the quality of the service-level delivery.
carried out by two functions within the Investment Advisers team: Portfolio Management and Asset Management.
The Portfolio Management team is generally focused on finding savings from efficient treasury management and portfolio operations.
Portfolio Management is concerned with the financial performance These often, though not always, occur as a consequence of the and, working closely with the Asset Managers, it seeks to: benefit of economies of scale that the Company possesses by owning stakes in over 100 projects e. g. via savings relating to group n monitor the financial performance of each investment against insurance premiums and treasury management financial efficiencies Group targets and forecasts: and or by increasing its controlling stake in a project through a follown consider the portfolio composition and mix with respect to on investment e. g. an arms-length re-tendering of the management achieving the Groups desired target returns within the agreed services agreement upon acquisition of a projects entire equity risk appetite: interest.
Alternatively, savings may occur as a one-off event e. g. a refinancing of a projects debt at lower margins.
In that instance, a n manage the cash flows from the Groups investments: significant proportion of the benefit will accrue to the client, either n minimise cash drag having un-invested cash on the balance through a one-off payment or through a reduction in the project life sheet and improve cash efficiency generally: availability-based payments that are due to be made, whilst n manage the processes and analysis which underpin the potentially providing additional upside to the project company, and draft semi-annual valuation of the Groups portfolio submitted to therefore the Group.
the Board: n ensure good financial management of the Group and each investment, having regard to accounting, tax, and debt covenants: and n maintain efficient treasury processes e. g. cash and debt at the Group level, and hedging of non-sterling investments.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 9 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 10 Section 2: Strategic Report continued The Asset Managers also work together with project companies In terms of geographic focus, the principal jurisdictions for and clients to achieve asset-specific cost savings, efficiencies and investment are the UK, certain countries in Europe, North America, contract variations, to extend the scope of the project, or, in other Australia and New Zealand.
Countries outside these regions might instances, transition to a reduced set of obligations, as the situation be considered by the Investment Adviser but only after prior requires.
As with the Portfolio Managements work, cost savings discussion and agreement from the Board.
In relation to secondary and efficiencies generally accrue to both the client and the project market investments in operational PPPs the Board and the company.
A sample of certain material contract variations overseen Investment Adviser favour investing in jurisdictions where by the Asset Management team during the year is provided in contractual structures and risk allocation are broadly consistent Section 2.4 Operational and Financial Review, under the heading with projects in the existing portfolio.
A feature of the PPP segment Contract Variations.
of the infrastructure market is that these features are typically common across geographies, to the extent that commercial New Investment agreements in different markets can often appear similar.
For New investments must align with the Acquisition Strategy which the investments in North America, Australia and New Zealand, the Company reviews and publishes regularly, as well as the overCompany can also rely on the asset management capabilities of the arching restrictions and caps imposed by the Investment Policy.
Investment Adviser, which has had offices in New York and Sydney Further, all new investments need to support the achievement of since 2008 and 2009 respectively.
the Objectives see Section 2.1, and balance the risks involved against the projected forecast returns, to enable the Company to In additional to operational PPP projects other areas of focus within achieve its long-term targets without materially changing the risk the above target jurisdictions include: profile of the Group.
n Investments in PPP or similar assets under construction, or at A key aspect of supporting the achievement of the objectives is to an earlier bid and development stage: acquire new investments which are value accretive to the current n Investments in regulated assets, e. g. transmission assets both portfolio.
Accretion can be achieved through i yield, ii the potential electricity such as offshore transmission lines or OFTOs and total return, or iii the inflation correlation offered by a prospective certain gas transmission pipelines or networks, which in all investment.
Part of the attraction of the Companys investment cases have appropriate payment mechanisms: and portfolio is its positive correlation to inflation described in more n Investments in demand-based projects, where income directly detail in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio and the Investment or indirectly is from user-paid revenue streams and can be Adviser seeks to maintain or, where possible, enhance this.
Other evaluated against good quality operational data and solid important metrics that are considered as part of the evaluation of investment metrics, examples being toll roads and certain opportunities are the potential for an investment to i extend the student accommodation projects.
duration of the portfolio as measured by the portfolios weighted average concession life described in more detail in Section 2.3 In addition to diversification of counterparties, both demand-based Business Model, Organisational Structure and Processes and ii and regulated assets typically offer good inflation linkage and longcontribute to the overall diversification of the portfolio, for example dated concession durations and therefore have potential to in relation to key counterparties.
support these key objectives of the Company see Section 2.1.
The Board and the Investment Adviser are proceeding cautiously with InfraReds dedicated infrastructure team uses a variety of channels initiatives in these markets with the objective of making investments to source investments for the Group.
These include acquiring that will deliver real value to shareholders while retaining and stakes from co-shareholders of existing projects e. g. an interest reinforcing HICLs position at the lower end of the risk spectrum.
held by the contractor on its balance sheet where it wishes to divest, soliciting an off-market transaction through a relationship In addition to the annual day dedicated to reviewing the Acquisition within its extensive network of investment partners and advisors or, Strategy, the Board and its Risk Committee review the overall less frequently, through competitive auctions in the wider market.
Group strategy and risk appetite on a quarterly basis to ensure they continue to be appropriate.
Acquisition Strategy The Directors, together with representatives from the Investment Investment Policy Adviser and third parties, held a two-day Board meeting in As it relates to new investment, the Companys Investment September 2015 which was dedicated to the annual review of the Policy as detailed in full in the Companys February 2013 overall strategy of the Group, including the Acquisition Strategy.
Prospectus and on the Companys website is set more widely The review involved a fundamental analysis of certain infrastructure than the current Acquisition Strategy.
In particular, within scope is market segments to assess their potential to deliver investments infrastructure equity: that are consistent with the existing portfolios position at the lower end of the risk spectrum.
The Acquisition Strategy, which has n in assets with public sector, government-backed or regulated been consistently applied since May 2009, was re-affirmed while revenues: incorporating some evolution to include segments of the n concessions which are predominantly availability-based i. e. infrastructure market which the Board and the Investment Adviser payments from the concession which do not generally depend consider offer attractive risk-adjusted returns.
on the level of use of the project asset : and or n companies in the regulated utilities sector.
