4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 38 Section 2: Strategic Report continued 2.8 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Overview The Company has put a risk management framework in place covering all aspects of the Groups business, including the formation of a Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee, which reports its findings to the Board, is tasked with the identification, assessment and management of risk for the Group.
The Risk Committee reviews the key risks affecting the Company at each regular quarterly meeting, by reference to a risk analysis matrix developed and monitored in conjunction with the Investment Adviser.
This review includes consideration of any new circumstances which could arise creating additional risks for the Group.
For each identified risk, a mitigation strategy is, where appropriate, developed and implemented, together with appropriate monitoring by the Investment Adviser and other key service providers as appropriate.
The Company outsources key services to the Investment Adviser and other service providers.
It therefore places reliance on these service providers own systems and controls, details of which the Board has received and reviews annually.
The Boards Management Engagement Committee reviews the performance of the Investment Adviser as well as all key service providers at least annually and this review includes a consideration of the Investment Advisers internal controls and their effectiveness.
The Investment Advisers risk and compliance team has developed a detailed self-assessment internal control report, and this is reviewed and debated on a quarterly basis by the Board.
The Directors set out the principal risks relating to the Groups portfolio and to shareholdings in the Company in the Companys February 2013 Prospectus, which is available from the Companys website.
The principal risks, which remain substantially unchanged, and their possible mitigants are summarised below under three key risk areas Business & Operational Model: Market and Political: and MacroEconomic and Financial.
Business & Operational Model Risks Principal Risk Description Mitigant Asset Performance Operational Issues Poor operational performance, the failure Operational issues can be caused by a number of factors, to meet the prescribed contractual service the most likely of which is the underperformance of a service standards, or the appearance of latent delivery partner.
The Investment Adviser, through its Asset construction defects, will reduce the Management team, plays a pro-active oversight role, to availability-based payments made by the ensure any trends in performance are picked up early and, public sector client to the project company.
In addition to the financial cost of these When problems do arise, the relevant Asset Manager will reductions, there is the potential for an closely oversee the corrective steps and relevant adverse reputational impact to the private stakeholders actions in order to preserve good working sector consortium including the Company relations with the client and thereby minimise any potential from any material operational issues.
Any availability-based payment deductions for periods of unavailability or poor service delivery are typically contractually passed-down to the sub-contractor who is at fault.
In a severe case, the project company can terminate a sub-contractor who fails to perform and either self-manage the services or tender for a new service provider.
The cost of this action would, where possible, also be recovered from the previous supplier.
38 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 39 Business & Operational Model Risks continued Principal Risk Description Mitigant Asset Performance Stringent Contractual Interpretation continued In the UK PPP health sector, certain public The Investment Adviser does not currently believe this risk to sector clients are applying some stringent be widespread.
The Groups investment assumption interpretation of contract terms, leading to remains that contracts are both fair and balanced in material availability-based payment protecting the interests of the respective parties.
deductions for the related projects.
These Furthermore, a continuation of the policy is unlikely as it deductions are often disputed, requiring would adversely affect investors appetite to make future time and money to achieve a resolution commitments to infrastructure assets, thereby impacting the through processes which can leave the public sectors ability to raise private financing for necessary value of the investment impaired.
Termination The public sector client is entitled to This risk is not considered to be high due, in part, to the terminate the contract voluntarily or for requirement for the public sector client to fund these default typically due to serious operational termination costs, which include the cost of repaying the performance issues or a serious breach of debt secured to finance the project.
Where compensation is payable, it may be In the case of performance, the Investment Adviser and lower than the market carrying value of the Operator is actively monitoring performance and dealing Groups equity interest of the investment pro-actively with issues before they become major concerns.
Clearly voluntary termination will be driven by clients, their available capital and their operational requirements.
For the large majority of the Groups investments it would be entitled to be compensated at market value if a project is terminated voluntarily, thus mitigating the potential financial impact of this risk.
Counterparty Risk Supply Chain The project companies in which the Group As one of its key objectives the Company provides invests sub-contract the provision of the investors with access to a balanced, diversified portfolio of services to specialist providers construction investments in terms of clients, funders and supply-chain and facilities management companies.
The contractors, thereby mitigating concentration risk and the failure of a supply chain provider would impact of the default non-performance by any single negatively impact the project companys counterparty.
In addition, counterparty credit risk is ability to fulfil its contractual obligations with considered at regular intervals by the Investment Advisers the client.
Availability-based payment internal credit risk team.
deductions would then be made by the client as a result which would impact the Companys cash flow and therefore the valuation of the Groups portfolio.
Clients If a project companys client has financial The impact of any single client default to the overall Group difficulties and is unable to meet its is considered small, as the Group has low concentration obligations to pay the availability-based risk associated with any individual client.
payment under a concession agreement, this could have a material impact on that In the specific case of the Groups UK health projects and projects cash flows.
their NHS Trust clients, each project company also benefits from a Deed of Safeguard or similar with the UK Government, whereby the project Company is not left unpaid if an NHS Trust fails to perform its obligations under the contract for example if the Trust became insolvent.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 39 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 40 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Business & Operational Model Risks continued Principal Risk Description Mitigant Operational Costs The budget, and therefore the risk, of As part of the due diligence process at the time of certain key operational costs associated acquisition, all operating budgets are reviewed to determine with a project lies with the project if they are adequate.
Generally these relate to the MSA contract, the lifecycle costs and the In the case of insurance, there is often some protection insurance premium.
In certain cases, the through contractual premium risk-sharing agreements with risk sits fully with the project company, the project companys client such that, when an agreed whilst in other instances it may be partially cap is met, the client mostly, or wholly, assumes the or fully sub-contracted to a service increased premium.
There is a risk that the budget could prove to be insufficient.
The Investment Adviser regularly assesses the adequacy of lifecycle budgets where the risk sits with the project companies.
The portfolios sensitivity to the largest of these risks, the lifecycle costs, is set out in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under the heading Valuation Sensitivities.
Asset and Portfolio The Company is heavily reliant upon the The Investment Adviser has a track record of investing and Management and Investment Adviser to implement the managing infrastructure investments over a period of more Transaction Execution strategies see Section 2.2 Strategy and than 20 years.
It has developed a depth of resource and Investment Policy and, as a result, deliver knowledge in the asset class, as well as appropriate and its objectives.
detailed sets of policies, procedures, compliance systems, and risk controls.
Broadly speaking, the different functions within the investment Advisers team Each functional area of the Investment Advisers team Asset Management, Portfolio Management benefits from a group of individuals possessing relevant and Origination are responsible for each qualifications, relationships and experience for their roles of the asset management, value e. g. members of the Asset management team will typically enhancement and investment selection and have a background in PPP construction or facilities pricing disciplines, respectively, discussed management.
The Board is satisfied that there is sufficient in Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment depth of expertise within the Investment Advisers team for Policy.
A performance deterioration of any the Group not to be reliant on any single key man.
of these functions would have a material impact on the Companys performance.
The Investment Adviser is supported by specialist advisers e. g. lawyers, technical consultants, and tax advisers who are retained to carry out specific due diligence on potential acquisitions to minimise transaction risk, or provide advice on ad hoc issues for projects under management.
Cyber-Attack A cyber attack could affect the IT systems The Group has no dedicated IT systems as it relies on of the Group, the Investment Adviser or a those of its services providers.
The Investment Adviser has project company, causing theft or loss of IT systems designed to withstand a cyber-attack and these data, or damage to a buildings control systems have been subject to successful annual tests by a systems and equipment.
This would have specialist third party.
negative legal, operational and reputational repercussions.
Project companies tend not to have their own IT systems and rely on their subcontractors and management companies.
Data is normally backed up and the risk, should data be corrupted or stolen, is considered low.
The Group is currently assessing the risk of a cyber-attack on the building management systems within the buildings managed by the Groups project companies.
Early indications are that this risk is low, but sample testing is currently underway.
40 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 41 Market and Political Risks Principal Risk Description Mitigant Acquisition Pipeline Investor appetite for infrastructure The Board is confident that the Investment Adviser, via assets remains at an all-time high.
its network of established relationships, is able to As a consequence, the sourcing of continue enjoying access to opportunities both in UK and new investments for the Group is abroad.
In any event, a failure to make further investments increasingly difficult given the levels of would not impact the performance and returns from the competitive demand.
Political and Regulatory Change in Policy A change in policy or sentiment toward Studies show that the need for new infrastructure and the private financing is likely to affect the levels repair of existing is a huge spend requirement globally, of procurement of new privately-financed requiring sums of money that governments will find it difficult infrastructure projects.
This would in due to raise.
It is therefore likely that private sector capital will course impact the availability of new continue to be used to fund infrastructure investment and transactions in the secondary market in that there will continue to be suitable projects from the which the Company is most active.
More unlikely, but not impossible, would be Each of the Groups projects is structured with a legally a public sector client reneging on the terms binding concession contract.
Most social and transportation of the project agreement and failing partly infrastructure concessions provide some or total protection, or in whole to make the contracted through their contractual structures, in relation to changes in availability-based payments.
Although the legislation which affect either the project asset or the way the Company would mount a legal challenge if services are provided.
Finally, such a development would such an aggressive change in policy were have wide ranging, adverse implications for all private sector attempted, the legal processes and means investors and supply chain stakeholders, and therefore acts for redress would involve expending time as a natural deterrent against such an approach.
This would undoubtedly impact the value of the Groups investment portfolio and affect the Companys ability to meet its target distributions.
Indirect Legal Regulatory changes Various indirect, ancillary or wide-reaching The Company, the Investment Adviser and their advisers legal and regulatory changes may adversely continually monitor any potential or actual changes to impact the Group and the project regulations to ensure both the Group and its service companies in which the Group invests.
Where appropriate, the could take the form of legislation impacting Investment Adviser will participate in consultation processes, the supply chain or contractual costs or to ensure that the legislature hears the concerns and views obligations to which project companies of the Company, in its capacity as a private sector investor.
and therefore the equity investor are exposed.
In addition, legal and regulatory changes in the jurisdictions in which the Group has an interest, are likely to have a direct impact on the Company.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 41 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 42 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Macro-Economic & Financial Principal Risk Description Mitigant Inflation Revenues received by project companies Whilst inflation indices are currently low in countries in typically have partial or full inflation-linkage.
which the Group has investments, the Board and Similarly, the project outflows such as the Investment Adviser believe the Groups long term operating, lifecycle and debt-capital costs assumptions for inflation remain reasonable.
The Company are generally inflation-linked or fixed publishes an analysis of the portfolios sensitivity to inflation throughout the life of the project.
The in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, under the consequence is that the investment heading Valuation Sensitivities.
returns from a project company normally have positive inflation correlation.
However, if countries in which the Group holds investments were to enter an environment of falling inflation, such that RPI CPI was below the current applicable Group assumptions on average for the remainder of the current projects lives, or there were periods of deflation, the valuation of the portfolio would be adversely impacted, and in a period of sustained deflation, projects could suffer defaults under their loan arrangements.
Interest Rates Discount Rates A discounted cash flow methodology is The key mitigant to an increase in the appropriate discount used to value the Groups investments.
rate implied by an increase in interest rates is that it is The appropriateness of the selected unlikely the two variables will move independently of each discount rate for each project and other.
Interest rates and inflation are also correlated over therefore the weighted average discount the long-term, and they exhibit a positive relationship.
rate for all projects is key to deriving a fair Therefore, an increase in interest rates over the long term is and reasonable valuation for the portfolio.
likely to result in both a higher discount rate and a higher The rate is established by reference to inflation rate factors which materially offset one another in knowledge of transactions involving similar the context of a portfolio valuation exercise.
Further, an investments in the market and this is interest rate increase would have a positive impact on corroborated by considering the yield on deposits held on account, thereby mitigating the impact of long-dated government bonds a proxy for a discount rate hike on the portfolio value.
Section 2.5 the risk-free rate plus an adequate riskValuation of the Portfolio, under the heading Valuation premium to reflect the additional risk Sensitivities provides some analysis of the impact of the associated with owning an equity interest portfolios sensitivity to these variables.
Finally, aside from the general correlation of the variables All else being equal, an increase in the discussed above, in the present environment the rate on yield on long-dated government bonds long-dated Government bonds is at historically low levels.
would imply an increase to the discount However, the level of the discount rate applied by market rate because of its reference back to the participants for valuing secondary, infrastructure risk-free rate, as described above.
The investments such as those held in the portfolio has mathematical impact of applying a higher remained remarkably robust in recent years.
The discount rate to the future cash flows of implication is that the risk premium for the asset class is the projects would be a reduction in the relatively high.
It may therefore support a downward trend net present value of the portfolio.
to its long-term mean should the long-dated Government bonds rise, without impacting the overall discount rate.
42 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 43 Macro-Economic & Financial continued Principal Risk Description Mitigant Interest Rates Revolving Credit Facility continued The Company benefits from the use of a To manage interest rate risk, the Group may use interest rate revolving credit facility RCF, so as to avoid swaps to hedge drawings under the Groups debt facility, holding materials amounts of uninvested depending on the how long the debt is likely to be drawn.
cash in excess of that required to meet outstanding equity commitments for The Group renewed the RCF facility in November 2015 with existing investments or to fund potential an expiry date of May 2019.
The current facility is provided acquisitions in the near term.
New equity by five lenders to minimise the Companys exposure to, issuances programmes are used from time and reliance upon, any single bank.
to time to raise capital which can be used to pay down the facility.
The Company is therefore subject to interest rate risk in respect of the RCF commitments.
Project Financing and Cash Deposits Each project is typically financed with Adverse interest rate movements cannot be prevented or amortising long term debt.
The Company aims to be realistic in its of this debt funding is that sufficient cash interest rate assumptions, thereby ensuring that cash deposits are maintained to support the deposits are appropriately accounted for in the portfolio repayments to the senior lenders.
Investors are provided with an addition, cash reserves are held in illustration of the portfolios sensitivity to interest rate segregated bank accounts to meet movements in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio, contingent liabilities and the anticipated under the heading Valuation Sensitivities.
expenditure that falls to the project company e. g. life cycle costs.
Debt financing for projects have fixed-rate or inflation-linked interest rate hedges in place on their borrowings for the fullThe deposits are generally held in short term to minimise interest volatility.
A fall in interest rates below the level assumed in the portfolio valuation model would reduce the anticipated cash flow to the Company and therefore its net asset value.
Taxation Corporate Tax Rates Recent reductions in the UK corporation Changes in UK or overseas corporation tax rates cannot tax rate has positively impacted the be prevented or mitigated.
The Company aims to be portfolios valuation, however, there is no realistic in its tax rate assumptions.
assurance that the lower rates will remain in place in the future.
Subsequent Investors are provided with an illustration of the portfolios Governments or a change in policy might sensitivity to changes in tax rates in Section 2.5 Valuation lead to an increase in the corporate tax of the Portfolio, under the heading Valuation Sensitivities.
rate and a corresponding reduction in the portfolios value.
Equivalent risks arise in respect of the Groups overseas projects.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 43 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 44 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Macro-Economic & Financial continued Principal Risk Description Mitigant Taxation continued Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS The OECD has published its final reports The Board and the Investment Adviser are monitoring concerning its initiative to address base developments in jurisdictions who are signatories to the erosion and profit shifting BEPS, a key OECD and where the Group holds investments.
tax priority of governments around the globe.
The reports provide countries with a Currently it is too early to assess how or if the wide choice of which recommendations to implementation of changes from this initiative will affect the apply and how they might be implemented, Group or its investments.
However, the overriding public albeit the options are complex and difficult need both in the UK and abroad to utilise private financing to interpret.
These changes could have a as a procurement model for new infrastructure projects is material impact on tax liabilities, in expected to be a strong deterrent to introducing new tax particular the deductibility of interest costs standards that would have a penal impact on infrastructure of debt used to finance projects.
This investments presently held by investors.
action would undermine the structuring typically used for private finance investments, such as those held by the Group and other infrastructure investors, leading to a material impact on the Groups future cash flows and therefore the portfolios valuation.
Cross-border The tax treatment of income received by Relevant tax rules are closely monitored by the Investment Tax Treatment the Group may be adversely impacted Adviser, the Company and their advisers for any potentially from a change in cross-border tax rules, adverse changes to the Group.
Ultimately, the Company including as a result of aspects of the could chose to move its domicile to the UK, should this be BEPS initiative.
a sensible course of action in light of the rules being implemented in the UK in response to the BEPS initiative.
Foreign Exchange As the Company owns a number of To mitigate the foreign exchange risk, the Group has used investments in jurisdictions outside the UK, a combination of balance sheet hedging, and hedging where the income generated from the prospective income on a short-term basis through outright project is denominated in a foreign forward currency sales.
currency, the investment return is received in a currency other than Sterling.
Project revenues, costs and debt financing are normally denominated in the same local currency, and so typically there is no foreign exchange risk within projects.
Valuation Sensitivities The sensitivity analysis does not show a Sensitivity analysis is a tool with limitations: it seeks to and Financial Modelling comprehensive picture of all potential illustrate to investors the impact that certain key variables scenarios.
Further, variables do not tend to have on the portfolios valuation.
It cannot provide a move in isolation, nor in a uniform or comprehensive assessment of all of the risks and should be consistent manner, and the analysis does treated accordingly.
not show the potentially infinite number of permutations, and resultant impacts, that Financial models are managed by an experienced team might arise in reality as a consequence.
who are adept at managing them in a manner that seeks to minimise the introduction of errors.
Financial models, either for the Group or the underlying project companies, may A substantive deviation of a projects investment contain errors of a numerical, formulaic or performance from its associated financial model would logical nature, or incorrect inputs, resulting indicate a requirement to re-examine the model for in inaccurate outputs.
These could inaccuracies and or errors.
Such instances are rare and adversely impact the assessment of the therefore provide the Investment Adviser and the Board Companys financial position.
with comfort as to the accuracy of the model.
