4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 45 Viability Statement 2.9 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The AIC Code of Corporate Governance requires the Directors to The business of the Company is to make investments via the make a statement in the Annual Report with regard to the viability Group in infrastructure assets, to hold these investments and to of the Company, including explaining how they have assessed the manage the portfolio of investments to achieve an acceptable prospects of the Company, the period of time for which they return for shareholders.
In managing the Company and the Group, have made the assessment and why they consider that period to the Directors have ensured that procedures and policies have be appropriate.
been put in place by the Group and its service providers to manage the Group effectively and responsibly with respect to all The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a the Groups stakeholders.
In making this statement the Directors have considered the resilience of the Company, taking Principles of Responsible Investment account of its current position, the principal risks facing the The Investment Adviser recognises that Environmental, Social and business, in severe but plausible downside scenarios, and the Governance ESG is fundamental to sustainable, responsible effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
business operations and to that end it has chosen to be a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment the Principles or The Directors have determined that the five-year period to March PRI, formerly known as the United Nations Principles for 2021 is an appropriate period over which to assess the viability of Responsible Investment.
The PRI are widely recognised and the Company for the purposes of this statement as this period regarded around the world and can be summarised as follows: accords with the Companys business planning exercises, is appropriate for the investments owned by the Group and is n To incorporate ESG checks into investment analysis and consistent with the long term objective of the Company.
decision-making: n To be active owners and incorporate ESG controls into The Company, as is common for an investment company, has a ownership policies and practices: low level of expenses relative to forecast receipts from its portfolio n To seek appropriate disclosures on ESG issues by the entities investments.
The portfolio consists of project companies whose in which the investments are made: underlying assets are predominately fully constructed and operating PPP or similar projects with public sector counterparties n To promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles in jurisdictions with established and proven legal systems.
As a within the investment industry: and result the Company benefits from predictable long term contracted n To report on activities and progress towards implementing cash flows and a set of principal risks as summarised above can the Principles.
The projects are each financed on a non-recourse basis to the Company and supported by detailed The Investment Adviser has incorporated the Principles within its financial models.
The Directors believe that the non-recourse business where relevant.
As part of this, it has also been using the financing and diversification within the portfolio of projects helps to Groups role as a shareholder in each project to request that each withstand and mitigate for the risks it is most likely to meet.
project company report against the Groups approved ESG policies.
ESG is discussed at each Board meeting and the Group is The Investment Adviser prepares, and the Directors review, monitored against is ESG policies.
summary five year cash flow projections each year as part of business planning and dividend approval processes.
The Environmental, Social and Governance Policies projections consider cash balances, key covenants and limits, The Groups investments are in project companies which provide dividend cover, investment policy compliance and other key financial services to their clients and which sub-contract the provision of indicators over the period.
Sensitivity analysis considers the potential these services to specialist facilities management companies.
The impact of the Groups principal risks summarised above actually Group is entitled to appoint at least one director to the board of occurring individually, and together.
These projections are based each project company and these positions have all been filled by a on the Investment Advisers expectations of future asset person nominated by the Group.
Board meetings are not quorate performance, income and costs and are consistent with the without the Groups nominated director being present and this methodology applied to provide the valuation of the investments.
self-imposed stipulation is reflective of the Groups active oversight of the underlying investments.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall The governance structures also provide for matters which are due over the five-year period to March 2021, on the assumption reserved for shareholders to determine, those items which directors that there is sufficient liquidity in the debt market to allow the determine and the routine day-to-day matters that are delegated to Company to refinance or repay obligations becoming due under the projects general manager and his or her team.
In the Groups revolving debt facility and that its investments are not circumstances where it is not possible to achieve board materially affected by retrospective changes to government policy, representation on the underlying investment company with laws or regulations.
appropriate voting rights and reserved matters to properly manage the investment and achieve the projected returns, it is unlikely that the investment will be approved.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 45 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 46 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Importantly, for alignment of interests and transparency, all directors The Companys ESG policies and procedures have been fees paid by the projects are for the benefit of the Group, and not the implemented across the whole portfolio.
This includes standing Investment Adviser.
agenda items such as: On a routine basis, the Investment Adviser undertakes a review to n Directors conflicts of interest, which are discussed and recorded ensure that each key contractor or their group has appropriate in the company register at each project company board meeting.
ESG policies in place, that these are being adhered to in the If any exist, these are discussed and a solution agreed: delivery of the services to the project and that there have been no n Health and Safety compliance: material breaches.
To achieve this end, the Investment Adviser has n Cost saving and or efficiency programme initiatives: and developed a proprietary system, including bespoke questionnaires, n Risk controls and mitigants.
for monitoring compliance which are filled in by each project company from its perspective on an annual basis.
The results of the With the enactment of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the Modern 2015-16 audit indicated that a small number of specific items Slavery Act, the Investment Adviser has developed appropriate require an action plan and focus, but no material issues of concern polices and ensures that these are adopted by all project were identified.
companies in which the Group has invested.
In parallel with the questionnaires the Investment Adviser The Board has reviewed its performance and the performance of its developed a set of 20 KPIs for monitoring project companies ESG service providers over the last 12 months and can confirm credentials which was rolled out in 2014.
The results of each metric compliance with the Companys ESG policies.
On the basis of the are appropriately weighted to derive a single grade for the project Investment Advisers recommendations, the Directors have from a four-point scoring system.
There was a 100% response rate considered the existing ESG policies relative to good industry for 2014 and, whilst the process is still ongoing for 2015, there has practice as applicable to an infrastructure Investment Company been a 94% rate thus far.
Three-quarters of the project companies and believe that they are current and appropriate and conform to have been awarded one of the top two categorisations of leader current good practice in relation to corporate responsibility.
or performer, compared with two-thirds in the previous year.
Specific ESG Initiatives in the Year During the year the Investment Adviser issued a new draft ESG Each individual project is responsible for developing environmental policy and guidelines for consideration, and adoption where and social projects that match with the community needs of the appropriate, by all projects.
The intention of the initiative is to client, the users and wider community that benefits from the promote enhanced ESG performance and monitoring on projectprojects facilities.
As a result the range and variation of initiatives level activities.
This will be rolled-out via a workshop programme, across the portfolio is very wide.
The activities are promoted within with specific teach-in guidance relevant to the needs of the project a project by the Groups nominated director typically a member of companies.
To further this aim, the Investment Adviser has also set the Investment Advisers Asset Management team and the up a steering committee to promote ESG activities at the initiatives include not only activities delivered or sponsored directly Investment Adviser level, but with the intention of ensuring best by the project company, but also by the whole supply chain linked practice is widely adopted by the projects.
with the relevant project, and are often carried out in conjunction with the client.
For the purposes of describing specific activities As part of the detailed due diligence carried out by the Investment below, the term project or project company will be used to Adviser, a potential investment will be assessed to ensure reference this wider group.
Set out below are selected activities compliance with the Groups ESG policies and that there have been that illustrate this range and have been supported across the no materials breaches in respect of the project.
Where there have Groups portfolio during the year including, where relevant, those been significant failings and it is not possible to get comfortable with carried over from prior years.
either a key contractors ESG record or the projects ESG performance to date, the investment will not be made.
Social The requirements relating to a school are different from those of a Health and Safety performance of each investment is monitored hospital and therefore the type of initiatives carried out across the and each year a number of Health and Safety audits are carried out portfolio can vary considerably.
In a hospital project a common by Health and Safety consultants to ensure appropriate procedures initiative is to provide sponsorship of awards organised by the Trust and policies are in place and being adhered to.
Information on to reward excellence and dedication on the part of their staff.
Health and Safety is reported to the Board via the Risk Committee Measures such as these improve the performance, standards and on a quarterly basis.
On a typical routine reporting basis, this takes reputation of the client, and help to reflect well on the project the form of an eponymous RIDDOR report, which relates to the overall.
Staff awards were sponsored by the project companies at Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Tameside General Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Tameside Regulations and the duties it imposes.
General Hospital, Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust Salford Royal Hospital, Birmingham & Solihull Mental Health Foundation Trust Birmingham New Hospitals, Mid Yorkshire NHS Trust Pinderfields & Pontefract Hospitals as well as East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust Blackburn Hospital.
46 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 47 At Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital the project company continues to Extra-curricular activities, predominantly motivational and physical support a wider Trust initiative with the Princes Trust a youth enhancement programmes, form an important part of the charity which organises programmes to offer engagement, education for the students at the Defence Sixth Form College, who confidence, life skills and personal development for those who are are on sponsorship programmes with one of the three Armed unemployed, struggling at school and or at risk of exclusion to Services or Defence-related Government Departments.
The generate work experience and training opportunities for mentees of project company uses funds generated from the sale of the old the charity.
In a similar way, at Birmingham Hospitals, support is laptops previously issued to former students to support worthy provided to the Teenage Cancer Trust and supply chain staff are pupils who would not otherwise be able to partake in such encouraged to get involved in fundraising activities throughout the activities, and to improve their opportunities and the environment.
Some of the money raised goes directly towards supporting In the year to 31 March 2016 funds were also used to provide more the Teenage Cancer Trust Young Persons Unit at the Queen bike shelters and to refurbish and improve student facilities to Elizabeth Hospital.
improve their recreational leisure time in the college.
For a second year running, the project company at Bradford At Oldham Library, the project company contributed funding Schools provided support to a Careers Fair organised with Make alongside the Arts Council to a performance space.
the Grade a partnership between business and education to equip young people with the skills they need to prepare for their working At Northwood MOD Headquarters, the project company hosts a lives for students at the schools.
The Investment Adviser is working local food bank as part of a wider Business in the Community to assist Make the Grade with funding to roll-out further relevant Programme run in collaboration with the client.
Environment At the Miles Platting Housing project in Manchester, a back to At two school projects, various environmental initiatives has work club for the residents of the projects housing is just one of been launched, including the provision of support and sponsorship many initiatives organised for the benefit of the local community.
for an eco-classroom, and prize money for an environmentalSince inception, 180 tenants have benefited from the service and themed competition.
45 have found work as a result.
In addition, the service provider employs five apprentices to help it perform its obligations in respect At Southmead Hospital the project company is working in support of the project.
of the clients initiative with Avon Wildlife Trust to create a My Wild Hospital, which is designed to encourage wildlife and the use of During the last financial year, the service provider at Edinburgh open spaces across the Southmead hospital site.
Schools recruited a sixth-form leaver as a trainee facilities manager.
This individual has now been in the role for approximately 18 At Stoke Mandeville Hospital plans are being developed in months and he has been progressing well.
He has undertaken his conjunction with the client to designate one of the wards as a first year diploma in facilities management and there is scope to Green Ward.
The project will involve the implementation of energy continue towards obtaining a degree.
saving initiatives and the impact that these actually achieve in overall energy consumption will be measured through localised At Highlands Schools, funding was provided to support metering.
If this pilot proves successful the plans will be rolled out extracurricular activities, including providing sound and lighting across the hospital.
equipment for a community show, to allow pupils to take part in offsite music events, and storage for gymnastic equipment for a Energy consumption levels associated with projects are often new local community gymnastic club.
significant and schemes to improve energy efficiency reduce the carbon footprint and thereby reduce cost are frequently carried out.
At the University of Sheffield, the project continues to support the Recent examples include the installation of low energy LED lighting Catalyst Scholarship initiative.
The programme offers free at Dorset Fire and Rescue and Glasgow Hospital, as well as the use accommodation for the year to a student who has suffered a difficult of standby generators to contribute electricity to the grid supporting home life situation.
In addition to the Catalyst Scholarship the project the National grid in times of peak demand.
continues to sponsor the University of Sheffields Elite Sports Performance Scheme by providing an accommodation bursary for Similar to the above, as part of a second phase of an energy saving a student selected by the University for their gold level award.
To initiative at West Middlesex Hospital, the project company is be eligible for selection, the student must be at a level where he she exploring the possibility of installing a combined heat and power represents the country in one of Sport Englands recognised plant CHP, which is a more efficient means of generating both sports the recipient at the end of Companys financial year is an power and heat than the equivalent conventional boiler and International canoeist.
Sport is particularly important to the University electrical supply systems.
At the Irish Grouped Schools, the CO2 of Sheffield and the project supports a number of initiatives run by output of the schools has been successfully lowered through the Sport Sheffield, the Universitys sports department, which enable introduction of LPG, to replace fuel oil, as the heating fuel.
students to engage with, and contribute to, the wider community through sport.
In addition efforts are being made to broaden the benefit of these programmes to promote sports with pupils at local schools through interaction with the recipient of the bursary.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 47 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:17 Page 48 Section 2: Strategic Report continued At Northwood MOD Headquarters, ongoing waste and recycling The Allenby and Connaught Ministry of Defence Accommodation presentations are seeking to promote behavioural change and project has a charity support culture that focuses on military energy saving lamps are being installed on street furniture, thereby charities.
It encompasses direct contributions from the project as reducing not just the projects carbon footprint, but also utility bills.
well as direct contributions from supply chain partners.
There is In addition a warm air curtain has been introduced in the main extensive voluntary support by the local project management team Headquarters building to prevent heat loss and solar reflective film including local community activity across schools, scout groups has been fitted to the medical centre windows to reduce solar gain, and a bird sanctuary.
As part of the estate re-development reducing energy wastage and cost.
programme, micro combined heat and power units and solar thermal systems have been included in the latest phases delivering combined savings of approximately 1,300 tonnes of carbon dioxide per annum.
As a result of this activity the project company was selected as the winner of the 2015 MOD Sanctuary Sustainability Project Award, and the Sustainable Business Award for achieving zero waste to landfill.
48 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:17 Page 49 University of Bourgogne, France HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 49 Section 3: Board of Directors
