4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 BACK END.
qxp 3282 25 05 2016 11:28 Page 86 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 1.
Reporting Entity HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 March 2016 comprise the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries together the Group see Note 21.
In accordance with section 244 5 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as the Directors have prepared consolidated financial statements for the period, they have not prepared individual statements for the Company in accordance with section 243 for the period.
Pursuant to the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987 the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
As an authorised scheme, the Company is subject to certain ongoing obligations to the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Key Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2016.
The consolidated financial statements, which give a true and fair view, have been prepared in compliance with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except that the financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss are stated at their fair values.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently in these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions which have been applied in the preparation of these accounts.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has all the typical characteristics of an investment entity and meets the three essential criteria as defined in IFRS 10 and therefore the Company continues to apply Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS27.
In addition, certain subsidiaries provide specific investment management services and undertake investment activities that require the results of those subsidiaries to be consolidated in the Group financial statements.
The three essential investment entity criteria met by the Company are: 1.
It obtains funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing these investors with professional investment management services: 2.
It commits to its investors that its business purpose is to invest its funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income or both: and 3.
It measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
The International Accounting Standards Board IASB issued Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 in December 2014 stating that investment entities should measure at fair value all of their subsidiaries that are themselves investment entities.
This revision to the Investment Entity standard does not become effective to the Company until the financial year ending in March 2017 and it is not expected to impact either earnings or net assets.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Section 2.2 and 2.3 on pages 9 to 16.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in Sections 2.4 and 2.5 on pages 16 to 32.
In addition, Notes 1 to 4 of the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with various public sector customers and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
The financing for these projects is non-recourse to the Group.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks.
