4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 35 Primary procurement is currently restricted to Germany roads 2.7 MARKET TRENDS AND OUTLOOK and the Netherlands roads and social infrastructure with some Infrastructure Market Developments activity in France e. g. in the university sector and the prospect of United Kingdom a limited pipeline in Ireland social infrastructure and Norway The UK has a long history of seeking the participation of private roads.
Taken as a whole activity is at a reasonable level but it is capital in public sector procurement and, as a consequence, has notable that none of the individual markets is producing strong the largest number of PPP projects underway of any global deal flow measured by diversity and number of procurements.
A considerable majority of these projects were procured a result the European market is fragmented which presents a during the period 1995 2008, meaning that the market has challenge for origination work and also contributes to a tendency matured and most projects are in their operational phases.
Equity for local markets to be overheated.
used to finance construction risk has largely been recycled to longterm, buy-and-hold secondary market investors, including the During the year Europe witnessed significant secondary deal flow in Company.
As a result secondary market deal flow has slowed infrastructure market segments outside PPP, notably in demand markedly in recent years a trend that continued during the year.
risk projects including toll roads and in certain operational regulated assets principally utility companies and some specific In parallel to the maturing secondary market, procurement in the gas transmission assets.
UK of new social and transportation infrastructure projects that require private investment which are attractive opportunities for the North America Group remains subdued with limited near-term potential.
There are The Canadian market has been one of the strongest sources of exceptions to the general picture but it was notable that the PPP deal flow in the period since 2008, with procurement activity National Infrastructure Delivery Plan 2016 2021, published by undertaken by several provinces and the Federal government.
The the Infrastructure & Projects Authority I&PA in March 2016, made maturity of the market is evidenced by the steady flow of secondary limited reference to PF2 as a procurement option for new opportunities, including portfolios of assets, across sectors and investment.
Although there was an indication that the Government from a wide variety of sponsors.
Projects are typically structured on is considering suitable PF2 projects, the National Infrastructure the basis of standardised contracts published by government Pipeline Spring 2016 published contemporaneously by the I&PA, agencies that take an approach to key commercial terms that is contained no indication of timing or quantum beyond a small materially similar to the UK.
number of waste management PPPs.
Primary procurement continued to perform strongly during the year The focus of the current Government, as reflected by the I&PA although the focus has shifted from social infrastructure to large pipeline, is towards the energy sector and regulated utilities.
The election of the Liberal Party, with a out in the Acquisition Strategy Section 2.2 Strategy and manifesto that explicitly supported investment in infrastructure, Investment Policy, the Investment Adviser sees potential augurs well for continued opportunities for private investment.
opportunities for the Company in this market trend, for example in relation to energy infrastructure e. g. transmission and is following The PPP market in the USA is uniquely complex.
Projects can be developments closely.
Alongside this there have been examples of sponsored by a wide range of states and municipalities and even secondary market activity in operational regulated assets, including quasi-government agencies, which are often constituted UK water companies and OFTOs.
However, despite the countrys size and wide range of potential public sector clients, the Historically the public sector in the UK has procured very few toll market has perennially under-performed.
There are a variety of roads.
As a consequence, in the demand risk market segment, reasons for this such as political expediency and competition from activity is focused around a small number of PPPs with an element alternative sources of finance available in the municipal bond of usage risk in their revenues of which there are comparatively market.
The net result is that the procurement model, although few and university-sponsored student accommodation projects, now widely adopted in legislation at state level, has to date where there has been some evidence of a pick-up in procurement struggled to gain sustained momentum.
activity over the last year.
There are some notable exceptions to this general statement, Europe where several projects have been procured over a number of years European markets contributed to the recovery of global PPP by state agencies with strong mandates for infrastructure delivery, investment immediately following the financial crisis.
Projects examples being Florida availability-based roads, Texas toll roads procured during the period since 2010 are now moving into their and Virginia toll roads.
Other states have also seen projects operational phases and, correspondingly, the Investment Adviser is procured, although a track record of investment over an extended witnessing an increase in secondary market deal flow across several timeframe is yet to emerge: California transportation and social countries.
Examples include Ireland, the Netherlands, France, infrastructure : Colorado road and rail : Maryland rail : Indiana, Portugal and Spain.
As a result, market activity in Europe picked up Ohio and Pennsylvania availability-based roads.
during the year across a broad front.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 35 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 36 Section 2: Strategic Report continued In summary the overall size of the market for PPP investment in the It is worth noting that the remaining nine investments that were USA, as measured by deals completed, is limited.
The Investment made during the year were secured via the Investment Advisers Adviser expects to see some secondary market deal flow over the relationships and direct negotiations with vendors, i. e. in situations medium term and a gradual pick-up in primary activity is hoped for with limited or no competition.
Six of these were incremental as success stories from early projects filter through to procurement investments in existing projects.
These transactions can proceed agencies around the country.
quickly, as only limited due diligence is necessary given the Investment Advisers knowledge of the projects.
Aside from the PPP market, during the year there was some significant secondary market activity in the toll road sector in the While the Company has observed the competitive trend in the USA: and in energy networks in both Canada and the USA.
secondary market for a number of years, it is also evident in primary procurements run by the public sector.
In most key PPP markets, Australia & New Zealand domestic and international construction companies and investors Infrastructure Australia published the Australian Infrastructure compete at every stage of the procurement process: forming Plan in February 2016.
The plan affirmed the Australian consortia, pre-qualification and at shortlist.
It is not unusual on Governments commitment to use private investment, both to some transactions for example in North America for five or more realise the value of existing publicly-owned infrastructure assets highly experienced teams to respond to qualification requests and to finance new projects.
Sectors highlighted for new with only three invited to submit proposals.
The challenge therefore investment include water infrastructure and various transportation for all participants in the primary market is to be consistently needs road and rail.
Electricity infrastructure, including networks, successful.
In line with the Acquisition Strategy, the Investment was identified as a prime candidate for privatisation.
It should be Adviser continues to seek opportunities to participate in primary noted that while the Australian economy is well developed and infrastructure procurement where a particular team has a clear political risk is low, the Investment Adviser is conscious that longcompetitive advantage or where competition is less intense.
term foreign exchange and inflation rate risks relative to Sterling are less predictable.
Asset Pricing As expected in the competitive environment noted above, asset As with the Canadian market, Australia has provided a significant prices have continued to rise during the year in most geographies flow of PPP projects for a number of years and activity has been and market segments in which the Group is active.
There is a relatively strong in the period since 2008 across health, education, positive impact for shareholders through the reduction in discount road and rail sectors.
As a result the secondary market also provides rates used to value the portfolio but, conversely, the task of finding a consistent source of deal flow.
In New Zealand, the Investment new opportunities that are value accretive is more challenging.
Adviser continues to see a small, but steady, flow of new projects Maintaining a disciplined approach to acquisition pricing is vital, and across social and transportation sectors.
This is expected to this is reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
continue and will translate into limited secondary market deal flow in the short-to-medium term.
The Investment Adviser is particularly mindful of relative value between geographies and the potential implications of foreign Competition exchange volatility for shareholder returns.
In relation to the former, As noted in previous years, with ever more widespread there are some secondary markets for example Australia and understanding of the attributes of infrastructure investment, greater Canada where the challenge of finding accretive new investments numbers of investors have been seeking assets across a broad is compounded by taxation policies that put overseas investors at range of market segments.
Market participants include managers a marginal disadvantage.
In the case of foreign exchange risk, of listed and unlisted infrastructure funds together with institutional assets priced in currencies other than Sterling are structured to investors making direct investments.
take into account a variety of macro-economic indicators on a comparative basis to reference UK valuation metrics.
Opportunities During the year the secondary market for operational infrastructure are only considered where they meet the Companys investment projects remained highly competitive.
The Group participated in 11 criteria and objectives, on a risk-adjusted basis.
auction processes and was outbid on all but one, losing either through the bidding process or, on a small number of occasions, In the current asset pricing environment, the Directors will also through pre-emption by another shareholder.
Generally this has consider opportunistic disposals especially where the Investment been because the winning bidder has bid a higher price based on Adviser believes the proceeds of any sale can be re-invested in new a more optimistic view of various cost and economic assumptions, investments that will be value accretive to the portfolio.
an approach that the Group is not prepared to take.
Members of the Investment Advisers team discussed this subject in more detail at a Capital Markets Seminar on 4 February 2016 and the materials from this event are available on the Companys website.
36 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:16 Page 37 Outlook and Pipeline InfraRed has been present in New York and Sydney since 2008 Even in the current competitive environment, the Company and 2009 respectively and has steadily acquired origination remains cautiously confident of sourcing new investments with expertise and asset management capabilities for projects in these similar risk-reward dynamics to the existing portfolio.
The Group continues to benefit from this experience.
confidence stems from the Companys clear strategy for Investment activity is only undertaken in geographies and market evaluating and securing value in its chosen market segments, segments that have been approved by the Board.
together with the dedicated team, knowledge and depth of relationships held by the Investment Adviser.
As already noted, markets outside the UK are not uniformly attractive.
Because of issues around taxation, the Investment The Investment Adviser is progressing activity across key elements Adviser is of the view that deployment of shareholder capital in the of the Acquisition Strategy.
In particular, InfraReds focus on building Australian and Canadian secondary markets is particularly and retaining long-term relationships helps to create opportunities, challenging.
The Group will retain an opportunistic approach to sometimes through opening direct negotiations with potential acquisitions in both countries but the Investment Adviser sees vendors.
Together with buying incremental stakes in existing greater potential in primary markets including certain demand risk projects, the Company has been able to make value-accretive projects, where the impact of tax on pricing is less pronounced.
acquisitions without compromising on returns or by making unrealistic assumptions on future forecast cash flows.
The Investment Adviser continues to seek appropriate investment opportunities in projects prior to their construction phase or The UK remains the natural destination for shareholders capital through participation in bid processes.
As already noted, primary and the Investment Adviser looks to this market as the preferred markets are competitive so the focus is on securing relationships source of opportunities within all market segments covered by the that can provide privileged access to deal flow potential options Acquisition Strategy.
During the coming year the Investment for this include the acquisition of investments from a pipeline being Adviser expects to evaluate opportunities in the following UK developed by the Investment Adviser and or by third parties.
market segments: Although there is no exclusive  in respect of n Secondary PPPs: investment in operational projects investments being sold by other infrastructure funds managed by the Investment Adviser, the Company may benefit from these n Demand risk: currently actively exploring initiatives in the student opportunities.
The Board continues to ensure shareholders accommodation sector interests are protected in such scenarios, through the n Regulated assets: optimistic of progressing opportunities in the establishment of a buy-side engagement committee upon which OFTOs subsector the Board is represented, and the commissioning of an independent third-party valuation.
At the same time, the Board and the Investment Adviser are aware that the objectives of the Company set out in Section 2.1 Any new investments, irrespective of location or market segment, Approach and Objectives are unlikely to be met through must be value accretive and: i fit the Companys Investment Policy: investment in the UK alone, in particular the aim of providing ii offer appropriate risk-reward for shareholders: and iii contribute shareholders with stable income beyond the current portfolios to building a portfolio that is positioned at the lower end of the risk weighted average concession length.
Further investment activity is spectrum.
The Board and the Investment Adviser will remain therefore expected in overseas markets, reflecting the vigilant in applying these principles in the coming year.
diversification of secondary market deal flow that is described above and was also discussed at the Companys Capital Markets Seminar on 4 February 2016.
The Investment Adviser expects to evaluate opportunities in the following: n Primary Secondary PPPs: projects in selected European countries and, more opportunistically, in Australia and New Zealand, and in North America n Demand risk: toll roads in North America and selected European countries: student accommodation in Australia n Regulated assets: operational transmission projects in selected European markets and North America HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 37
