Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Membership and attendance 2016 overview The Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee CREC consists of five members.
Four are Independent Non-Executive 2016 Highlights Directors: Dr Ronald Goode Committee Chair, Pat Butler, Completed the re-assessment of ABC risk and verified Dr Pamela Kirby and John Castellani Chair designate.
The procedural implementation fifth member is the Executive Vice Chairman, Mazen Darwazah, Developed and implemented an ABC programme for who champions Hikmas Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC, the US operations Corporate Responsibility CR and human dignity programmes.
The CREC met six times during the year, and full attendance was Developed a compliance online training tool for all employees achieved.
As the CREC is not a committee mandated by the Became a strategic health partner at the World Code, its membership is not subject to published requirements.
Economic Forum However, Hikma believes that the requisite challenge to operational Developed the human dignity programme effectiveness is achieved by having an Independent Non-Executive Director membership majority.
The Chairmanship of the CREC is Advanced an anti-trust, anti-money laundering AML and held by an Independent Non-Executive Director, Dr Ronald Goode.
trade sanctions programme John Castellani, the Chair designate, is an Independent NonExecutive Director and will take the Chair from the 2017 AGM.
2017 Priorities The Chair of the Audit Committee is a standing member.
Handover of chair responsibilities Meeting Implement and test the US ABC procedures Members Member since Attended Potential attendance Integration of global compliance Dr Ronald Goode Chair 1 Nov 2010 6 6 100% Company-wide compliance online training John Castellani Chair Further promote our human dignity programme designate 1 Mar 2016 4 4 100% Mazen Darwazah 1 Nov 2010 6 6 100% Calendar of events Pat Butler 1 Apr 2014 6 6 100% Dr Pamela Kirby 1 Dec 2014 6 6 100% Breffni Byrne retired Q1 Q2 12 May 2016 1 Nov 2010 2 2 100% Total meetings 6 100% ABC & CR update ABC update Shareholder report CR update US ABC assessment US ABC assessment progress Allocation of time Anti-trust, AML and trade sanctions 7% Corporate governance 13% Risk assessment 16% CR including human dignity 16% ABC operations 48% Q3 Q4 Anti-trust, AML Group compliance and trade sanctions and speak-up Group and ABC risk CR update assessment report US ABC enhancement US ABC strategy update Advisers Group compliance Internal External and speak-up Chief Compliance Officer Good Corporation VP for Corporate Ernst & Young Communication General Counsel Company Secretary Annual Report 2016 99 Committee reports: Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics continued Strategy and resources Responsibilities During the year, the compliance department continued The CREC sets the overall strategy for the Groups to implement the medium-term global strategy for the response to anti-money laundering, bribery, corruption delivery of the commitment to business integrity and and trade sanctions risks and is responsible for approving ABC.
Hikma has a framework that sets out the structure the contents of all of Hikmas policies in areas where of leadership, delegated authority and ownership for ethical judgements are important.
The CREC oversees the ABC compliance programme.
the Groups ABC compliance programme, policies on ethics and business conduct and the development of the Code of Conduct the Code.
The CREC also oversees Hikmas speak-up process for employees to raise ethical concerns, and, where relevant, oversees Board their investigation.
The CREC reviews and monitors policy in the area of Corporate Responsibility CR at Board CREC level.
The CRECs terms of reference are available on the Hikma website, at the registered office at 13 Hanover Square, London, W1S 1HW and by contacting Chief Compliance Officer cosec@hikma.
Branded Injectables US & Generics Division Division Division Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC Champion Champion Champion Group MENA US Top level commitment, from the beginning Compliance Compliance Compliance Officers Officers Officers Since its foundation, Hikma has and continues to be committed to the highest standards of integrity and ethics in the conduct of its business.
Hikma has communicated its zero tolerance of bribery and corruption to its employees Operational responsibility and oversight for ABC is assigned and made sure that they are aware that Hikma will not by the Board to the Executive Vice Chairman, who then penalise any individual for complying with the principles delegates responsibility to his management team.
The enshrined in the Code or in the ABC policies, even at the Chief Compliance Officer CCO reports directly to cost of forgoing a business opportunity, losing revenue the CREC on ABC matters.
The CCOs leadership of ABC or profit or disobeying a superiors instructions.
Hikma issues is overseen by the CREC Chair and the Executive disciplines staff for any ethical breaches of its standards Vice Chairman.
The head of each business division has of integrity.
taken responsibility to be the compliance champion for their division: Hikma is a founding member of the World Economic Forums Partnering Against Corruption Initiative PACI, Mazen Darwazah Branded the leading business driven global anti-corruption initiative Riad Mishlawi Injectables which was formed in 2004 by a group of chief executives Michael Raya US and Generics from different industries.
PACI is one of the Forums strongest cross-industry collaborative efforts and is creating The CCO is supported by Group and regional compliance a highly visible, agenda-setting platform by working officers at the operational level.
The legal, HR, financial and with business leaders, international organisations and company secretarial departments also advise and provide governments to address corruption, transparency and implementation support to the compliance department.
Under the leadership of PACI Vanguard Chief Executives, the community is expanding rapidly and now focuses on implementing a global anti-corruption agenda.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 100 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Case study US ABC risk assessment and process enhancements Introduction Hikma engaged GoodCorporation, recognised worldwide as one of the leading organisations working in the field of corporate responsibility and business ethics, to conduct a risk assessment that would provide a benchmark and goals to improve Hikmas Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC programme.
They haveworked with over 100 clients, including 17 from the FTSE 100, in more than 60 countries, and the Committee believes them to be extremely well qualified to advise us.
During 2015, the Committee instructed an independent assessment of each site.
The US process was put on hold pending the acquisition of Roxane in early 2016.
This assessment was completedduring the year.
Risk assessment process The regional compliance officer for each site was responsible for delivering the requirements of GoodCorporation.
At the conclusion of each assessment a presentation was made to the senior team, Chief Compliance Officer and regional officer, highlighting the areas where significant progress had been made and establishing a road map for the future.
During the process the Chairman of the CREC received regular updates both from the Company Secretary and GoodCorporation.
Development The overall conclusion from the US exercise was that The US compliance team used the GoodCorporation good progress had been made since the previous visit, action plan and the advice of US legal experts to develop but that significant further enhancements were in full ABC procedures that met the requirements of the development which could further raise the level of US and UK legislation.
GoodCorporation developed an action plan to ensure maximum enhancements.
Verification exercise The US compliance team implemented their procedures The CREC instructed GoodCorporation to revisit the through working closely with relevant departments, US operations to test the implementation of the revised training workshops and communications.
The US Chief procedures and assess the level of achievement.
The Executive ensured that the US compliance team reported Committee was delighted to report that, as a result of directly to him, in order to ensure that successful work over an intensive, eight month period, the US ABC implementation could be achieved rapidly.
practices were considered to be very strong.
Annual Report 2016 101 Committee reports: Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics continued Training Responsibility and ethics Hikmas policies have been developed in conjunction Code of Conduct with its ongoing focus on education and dissemination of ABC compliance information across the business.
Hikmas The CREC is responsible for the Group Code of employee induction programmes ensure that each new Conduct, which is reviewed and compared to comparable employee can clearly understand the Groups ethical international companies regularly.
The Code is available expectations.
In addition, increasing awareness of ABC in all of the major languages in which the Company issues has been built within the business, with awareness conducts business: Arabic, English, French, German, sessions given to functional and geographical teams Portuguese, Italian and Russian.
Each year all Hikma across the Group.
employees are required to confirm that they have read the Code, have understood it and will abide by its terms.
During 2016, the Compliance Department developed an The training plan for the Code includes face-to-face online training tool for ABC issues, which is supported training for top managers, and training and discussion by a commitment from the Chief Executive that all sessions at department level for employees and lower employees and officers of the Group will undertake management.
The Code is available on our website: that training.
Procedures Speak-up Hikma has developed, implemented and independently Hikma has an open-door policy regarding communication tested a full suite of ABC procedures across all its global so that it can hear from those who have any questions or operations.
The procedures require significant efforts on concerns about the ethics and integrity of the business.
the part of operational, financial and sales and marketing Where employees believe that it is not possible or personnel, overseen by the regional compliance team.
appropriate to report to line management, they may The Groups internal audit plan, under the direction of make reports confidentially to any senior manager the General Counsel, verifies the effectiveness of the within the business.
Additionally, Hikma has anonymous ABC procedures and recommends improvements, web and telephone reporting lines in place across all where required.
operations, which report directly to the compliance department and Chair of the CREC.
Anti-trust, AML and trade sanctions The Company has established a committee of senior The General Counsel oversees the Groups compliance group employees representing the compliance, legal and within the anti-trust, anti-money laundering and trade human resources functions.
This committee is responsible sanctions legislation and reports to the Committee in this for investigating and approving appropriate action in regard.
The Group has established extensive policies and relation to all speak-up incidents.
procedures to ensure compliance which have been reviewed by the Committee during the year.
As part of their commitment to the Code, employees understand that they have a duty to report any suspected violations.
The Company remains satisfied that the policy and procedures enable proportionate and independent investigation of matters raised including non-compliance and that appropriate follow-up action is taken.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 102 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act MSA Hikma is committed to ensuring that modern slavery in the form of forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking does not take place in any of its businesses or supply chains across the globe.
Key measures in support of this goal include training Hikma staff on labour standards and how to recognise and respond to any incidences of modern slavery, undertaking periodic analysisand management of any modern slavery risk in Hikmas businesses or supply chains, carrying out appropriate due diligence and engaging on the issue with supply chain partners.
Corporate responsibility The Executive Vice Chairman is the champion of Hikmas CR programme within the Company and chairsHikmas CR Committee.
The VP of Corporate Communication is responsible for CR at an operational level.
The CR team, led by the VP of Corporate Communication, regularly presents developments to the CREC which, during the year under review, included: Developed the Human Dignity programme Joined the FTSE4Good index Upgraded greenhouse gas reporting capabilities Fully integrated the US CR activities within the Group CR programme Strategic health partner at the World Economic Forum Continued commitment to the UN Global Compact Further details are available in the Sustainability report on pages 38 to 51.
For and on behalf of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Dr Ronald Goode CREC Chair 14 March 2017 Annual Report 2016 103
