Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 2016 overview 2016 Highlights Membership and attendance Oversaw West-Ward Columbus Roxane acquisition and The Audit Committee comprises seven Independent related accounting matters Non-Executive Directors: Pat Butler Committee Chair, Michael Ashton, Dr Ronald Goode, Robert Pickering, Moved audit from Deloitte to PwC Dr Pamela Kirby, John Castellani and Nina Henderson.
Continued development of Enterprise Risk Pat Butler, the Chair, has extensive experience of financing, Management approach accounting, risk and internal control matters from his 30 years at McKinsey and Arthur Andersen and is therefore considered 2017 Priorities to have recent and relevant financial experience.
All members Enhancing forecasting and budgeting processes have spent significant portions of their careers in leading positions at financial, advisory and pharmaceutical companies.
Accounting for R&D Meeting Reviewing risk systems Members Member since Attended Potential attendance Optimising internal audit Pat Butler Chair 1 Apr 2014 7 7 100% Breffni Byrne retired 12 May 2016 14 Oct 2005 3 3 100% Calendar of events Michael Ashton 14 Oct 2005 6 7 86% Dr Ronald Goode 12 Dec 2006 7 7 100% Robert Pickering 1 Sept 2011 7 7 100% Q1 Q2 Dr Pamela Kirby 1 Dec 2014 7 7 100% John Castellani 1 March 2016 6 6 100% Forecast I Audit plan Nina Henderson 1 Oct 2016 2 2 100% Preliminary statements Forecast II & IMS Total meetings 7 98% Report and Accounts Principal risks and uncertainties Allocation of time Risk 10% Internal audit 13% Financial statements 14% Forecasts 18% Financial performance 21% Acquisitions 24% Q3 Q4 Interim dividend Forecast IV & IMS Auditor update Audit performance and plan Forecast III & Interim announcement Budget for 2017 and results Internal audit report Advisers Internal External Chief Financial Officer  LLP Auditor VP Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations EY Internal Audit Company Secretary Group Financial Controller Annual Report 2016 87 Committee reports: Audit continued Taxation: The Groups worldwide operations Responsibilities are highly integrated and involve a number of The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging cross-border transactions.
There is complexity and its responsibilities for financial reporting, external audit, judgement in estimating the potential tax liabilities internal audit, internal control and risk management.
The Committee reviewed The Committee reviews Hikmas Annual Report, financial the appropriateness of the disclosures in the Annual statements, interim reports, trading updates and monitors Report and considered the advice from professional all audit and non-audit work undertaken by external services firms and management in this regard.
It considers the significant accounting judgements Accounts receivable and inventory: The Committee underpinning the financial statements.
It also monitors the reviewed the reports on major receivables and inventory effectiveness and output of Hikmas internal and external provisions.
The Committee considered managements audit activities, internal controls and risk management valuation of inventory, plans to ensure payment and systems.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the relevant provisions.
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
Asset impairment: The Group has significant investment The Audit Committee terms of reference include all in fixed assets.
The Committee monitored the application matters prescribed by the Code and clearly set out its of the Groups policies in relation to impairment authority and duties.
They are reviewed by the Board on and valuation of those assets and considered and a regular basis and are available on the Hikma website, challenged managements recommendations at the registered office at 13 Hanover Square, London, regarding the appropriate impairment.
W1S1HW and by contacting cosec@hikma.
Rebates and chargebacks: The Committee assessed the reports on the processing of chargebacks and Significant accounting judgements rebates in the US.
This is a highly judgemental area and applies to a significant proportion of Group During 2016 and up until the date of this report, the revenue.
The Committee considered the control Audit Committee considered and discussed the following and modelling environment and the appropriateness financial matters: of associated provisions.
Fair value of assets acquired: The Committee reviewed Going concern: The Committee assessed the going and challenged managements estimates of the fair concern position when preparing the annual and values of assets and liabilities acquired as part of the half-yearly financial statements.
The Committee took Roxane acquisition and thus the opening balance sheet.
into account Hikmas forecasts and budget, borrowing This included a range of intangible assets related facilities, contingent liabilities, medium and long-term to product rights, products under development, plans, and financial and operational risk management.
co-development agreements and contract manufacturing agreements.
Viability: The Committee received the medium-term business projections and considered the scenarios Goodwill and intangibles: The Committee reviewed that could impact those projects and the ability managements forecasts for launching new products of the Company to remain viable.
and revenue expectations, and evaluated the implications of these forecasts for the carrying value of productrelated intangibles.
The Committee considered the Fair, balanced and understandable accounting policies and their practical implementation Hikma is committed to clear and transparent disclosures through managements impairment analysis and and seeks to continuously improve the clarity of its associated judgements.
This included a review of the reporting.
In producing the Annual Report, management, accounting approach to co-development agreements.
the auditors and the Committee aim to ensure that the disclosures are in clear language, reflect the underlying Revenue recognition: The Committee reviewed situation and that appropriate information is disclosed.
the judgements of management regarding revenue recognition for significant products where the potential for returns and rebates was high.
The Committee was satisfied that the review by management validated the approach to revenue recognition and took account of changes in the environment for those products during the year.
The Committee considered the results of an internal investigation into revenue recognition and returns procedures in Algeria which resulted from a whistleblower report and concluded that there were no such accounting issues, but certain wholesaler contractual and procedural enhancements were implemented.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 88 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee External audit considers whether Hikmas Annual Report is fair, balanced The external audit was undertaken by and understandable and whether it provides the necessary  LLP PwC.
Mr Charles information for shareholders and stakeholders to assess van den Arend, the senior statutory auditor, assumed Hikmas position, performance, business model strategy responsibility in May 2016 following the appointment of and associated risks.
The Committees assessment is PwC by shareholders.
As in previous years, the Committee underpinned by a comprehensive review conducted by maintained regular contact with the auditors throughout a committee of senior management the Reporting the year.
The Committee regularly reviews the work of the Committee, which consists of the: external auditors and undertook an assessment of the Chief Financial Officer auditors performance and independence and in doing so examined the following issues during the year: Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations Audit quality and technical capabilities Company Secretary The Committee evaluation process includes an assessment General Counsel of the work of the auditors.
The Committee formally Vice President for Corporate Affairs reviewed the quality of the 2015 audit conducted by Deputy Director of Investor Relations Deloitte and concluded that the team conducted an effective audit, with appropriately skilled staff.
Vice President for Human Resources and MENA operations The Committee feeds back its comments on the auditors performance as part of the regular meetings it has with Divisional Heads them without management present, and believes that Group Financial Controller there is a strong, appropriate and open relationship Chief Compliance Officer between the audit team leadership, the Audit Committee Where the matters on the agenda relate to their areas and management.
The FRCs corporate reporting review of responsibility team reviewed the tax disclosures in Hikmas 2015 The Reporting Committee, which meets regularly during financial statements and did not raise any concerns the year: or observations.
Initiates the first review of the Annual Report in Independence November, at which point areas for improvement are identified and enhancements recommended The Committees policy is that the external auditors should not undertake any work outside the scope of their annual Discusses the proposed disclosures with external audit in order to maintain auditor independence.
The auditors, brokers and public relations advisers to Committee has discretion to grant exceptions to this obtain their input policy where it considers that exceptional circumstances Reviews and refines disclosure and ensures the opinions exist and that independence can be maintained.
The of the advisers continue to be sought Committee regularly reviews the independence safeguards Oversees a verification process to ensure the accuracy of the auditors and remains satisfied that auditor of disclosures independence has not been compromised.
Issues guidance to contributors at the beginning and During 2015 and early 2016 the Companys previous throughout the process and reports on actions and auditors, Deloitte LLP, undertook certain assurance significant areas of judgement to the Audit Committee work related to the production of a shareholder circular as appropriate and prospectus for the Class 1 acquisition of Roxane The Audit Committee closely oversees the work of the Laboratories.
In advance of any instruction, the Committee Reporting Committee, which is responsible for ensuring reviewed the scope of this work and was satisfied that it the accuracy of the information submitted in the Annual was assurance related in its nature, required an in-depth Report and assessing whether the narrative section of knowledge of the Company and its financial procedures, the report is consistent with the accounting information.
had to be conducted relatively quickly and that the Each of the members of the Audit Committee and independence of the auditors could be assured.
the Reporting Committee was satisfied that the 2016 The Committee approved the use of Deloitte LLP Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and for this work.
recommended the adoption of the report and accounts to the Board.
Annual Report 2016 89 Committee reports: Audit continued PwC provided tax advisory and remuneration services to Risk and associated disclosures the Group prior to their appointment as auditors in May Readers are directed to the risk and control disclosures 2016 and have now ceased providing these services.
as follows: PwC completed their work and assisting with certain Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 54 to 57 tax projects by July 2016.
Risk management on page 58 Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit services provided by the previous and current auditors are Internal control on pages 58 to 59 outlined in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements Internal audit on page 59 and in the chart below.
Audit-related services are services Viability on page 60 carried out by the external audit team by virtue of the role and principally include assurance-related work.
For and on behalf of the Audit Committee Competition and Markets Authority CMA The Audit Committee has complied with the CMA order relating to the provision of statutory audit services.
Pat Butler A competitive audit tender process was undertaken in Audit Committee Chair 2015 and the Committees responsibilities and powers include those detailed in the CMA order.
14 March 2017 Auditors fee $ million $3.0m 100% $2.4m 1 Jan PwC 31 Dec 2016 100% $0.6m 100% $1.7m 1 Jan Deloitte 31 Dec 2015 10% 4% 86% $2.9m 0 20 40 60 80 100 Audit-related fees Non-audit-related fees Tax services West-Ward Columbus Roxanne related fees Other non-audit services Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 90 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements External auditor transition The appointment of  LLP PwC was approved by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting following a rigorous tender selection process.
The proposed change in auditor was first communicated to shareholders in September 2015.
The intervening period was used to ensure a smooth handover process from Deloitte LLP, the previous auditors.
The Committee has overseen the transition of the external audit work to PwC through a number of activities: Auditor independence Shadowing Deloitte The Committee reviewed the policies and procedures PwC shadowed Deloitte through areas of the 2015 in place to safeguard PwCs independence and objectivity year-end audit to support their understanding of the prior to the commencement of their audit.
The Committee process and procedures involved.
This allowed PwC to also implemented a new policy to prohibit any non-audit carefully observe and establish roles during this phase.
services to ensure that there was no impact on the audit service or PwCs independence.
Induction Audit plan PwC underwent a thorough induction process to enhance PwC shared a detailed audit plan as part of the tender their understanding of the business and become more process, setting out the scope and objectives of the audit familiarised with Hikma.
This included meetings with together with an overview of the planned approach, an Directors and management across the business with a assessment of the Groups risk and controls, and proposed number of site visits to international operations including areas of audit focus.
This detailed planning allowed for Portugal, US and Jordan.
Transitional workshops Hikma Academy Workshops were held in a number of jurisdictions PwC rolled out an extensive training programme between the PwC audit team and departments and assessment for their global audit team.
This was throughout the Hikma Group to assist with the to ensure that their team was provided with relevant development of the audit plan and outline key pharma training, were well equipped for the audit and milestones and objectives for the transition process.
had a deep understanding of Hikmas business, risks and policies.
Following the transition activities, the Committee considered that PwC was well-positioned and appropriately informed in undertaking their first full-year audit for 2016.
The Committee considered that PwCs efforts and Deloittes assistance had been invaluable for achieving an efficient and effective handover.
