Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC What we have audited Report on the financial statements The Group and Company financial statements, included within Our opinion the Annual Report, comprise: In our opinion: the consolidated and Company balance sheets as Hikma Pharmaceuticals plcs Group financial statements and at 31 December 2016: Company financial statements the financial statements the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the the consolidated and Company cash flow statement for the year then ended: year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards for the year then ended: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the notes to the Group and Company financial statements, the Company financial statements have been properly prepared which include a summary of significant accounting policies in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and other explanatory information.
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Companies Act 2006: and in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial the financial statements have been prepared in accordance statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as statements and are identified as audited.
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in IAS Regulation.
the preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, IFRSs as issued by the IASB, and Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, the applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: $13,275,000 which represents 5% of profit before tax after adding back certain non-recurring items such as the gain on sale of prednisone, Roxane acquisition costs and purchase accounting adjustment items MATERIALITY Our audit included full scope audits of 7 components as well as procedures performed centrally over specific material balances at other locations around the world.
Taken together these account for 83% of consolidated revenue, 79% of the adjusted profit measure we use as the basis for determining materiality AUDIT SCOPE and 78% of consolidated profit before tax Acquisition accounting for the Roxane transaction AREAS OF Revenue recognition FOCUS Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Taxation The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 140 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisition accounting for the Roxane transaction On 29 February 2016, the Group completed its Hikma management engaged a third-party expert to provide valuation transaction to acquire the Roxane business from support with respect to the determination of the fair value of Roxanes assets Boehringer Ingelheim, for a purchase price and liabilities under IFRS 3.
We engaged our valuations experts to assist our consideration of $1,725 million.
audit of the purchase price allocation, specifically examining the methodology, underlying cash flows and useful economic life and other key assumptions The acquisition required the Company to prepare and mathematical accuracy of the valuation models prepared valuation models to determine the fair value of assets by management.
and liabilities acquired as part of the acquisition and resulted in the recognition of $407 million of goodwill We challenged managements identification of intangible assets, specifically and $723 million of intangible assets.
A number of the Marketed and In Process Research and Development elements, by internal restructuring steps were also undertaken understanding and verifying the rationale for the purchase and the status of following the acquisition, which gave rise to complex products purchased from different sources including Board minutes and due taxation consequences.
For those assets identified, we assessed the reasonableness of the cash flow projections that underpin the valuation of the intangible The business combination required significant assets, by comparing to historical cash flows and understanding the reasons judgements and accounting estimates to be made in for the growth profile of projections.
order to fair value the acquired assets and liabilities of the Roxane business, including the intangible asset We challenged the key assumptions, including discount rate and cash flow valuation, the supply and manufacturing agreement, growth projections, used in determining managements estimate of the future contingent consideration on the acquisition and cash flows associated with the intangible assets valuations and satisfied co-development agreements.
ourselves that they were reasonable.
Refer to the audit committee review of areas of In relation to the contingent consideration, we assessed the accuracy of significant accounting judgements page 88 and managements forecasted future sales volumes.
We agreed the sales forecasts to the Board-approved plans, and consulted with our accounting technical experts on the correct accounting treatment of these liabilities.
We are satisfied that management has appropriately valued its contingent liability at year-end, and has reflected the correct accounting treatment in the underlying books and records.
With respect to the valuation of other acquired assets, we performed the following substantive procedures: audited the acquired opening balances and substantively agreed a number of items back to supporting documentation to verify their valuation: attendance at inventory counts shortly after the acquisition date: challenged management over the valuation of the unfavourable supply and manufacturing contract held in the opening balance sheet.
As well as validating the accuracy of the valuation models, we agreed a sample of inputs back to supporting documentation: and physical verification of assets acquired and testing over the cut-off of selected revenue streams and costs.
As a result of our work, we determined that the purchase price allocations for the acquisition outlined in the Group financial statements were reasonable.
We engaged our tax specialists to examine the internal restructuring which occurred subsequent to the acquisition, in order to determine whether the resultant tax effects were accounted for appropriately, and to ensure that any estimates made by management were based on reasonable assumptions.
Finally, we examined the disclosures in respect of each aspect of the transaction and found them to be reasonable, providing a fair reflection of the accounting and valuations judgements.
Annual Report 2016 141 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition A description of the key accounting policies for revenue We considered the Groups processes for making judgements in this recognition, chargebacks and returns is included in Note 2. area and performed the following procedures: Management are required to make certain judgements in We assessed applicable controls in place around this process, tested respect of revenue recognition and the level of chargebacks, the nature of the pricing arrangements and the accuracy of calculations returns and other revenue deductions that will be realised and agreed the rates in customer agreements with those used in against the Groups revenue.
These estimates are material managements calculations of the required provisions.
to the financial statements and are highly judgemental, We compared the assumptions to contracted product prices and hence the reason for inclusion as an area of focus.
rebate terms, historical rebates, discounts, allowances and returns The largest of these judgements relate to revenue levels where relevant and to current payment trends.
We also recognition, chargebacks and returns, for which the validated assumptions used in the accrual calculation by comparison Group held provisions as at 31 December 2016.
For these to historical levels of product returns and external information.
estimates, management are required to make significant For the product where revenue is deferred, we obtained managements judgements based on historical rates and trends in order calculations with respect to pricing assumptions, and validated the to determine these provisions.
underlying calculations by comparing to historical data, as well as It is not always possible for management to make examining the terms of applicable contracts.
We also vouched the a reliable estimate of the revenue that it will earn, as deferred amount to historical revenue trends, price volatility and post significant pricing volatility continues to exist.
In one year end settlements to validate the accuracy of managements deferral case, revenue recognition is deferred until the point at estimates and the appropriate application of the accounting treatment.
which such clarity is available, known as the sell-through Of the $13 million deferred revenue at 31 December 2016, method.
As at 31 December 2016, the amount of deferred we challenged management on this judgement and utilised our revenue is $13 million.
The estimation of the accrual made knowledge of the market to determine if managements assertion by management is complex and particularly significant in that it was not possible to reliably measure the price was appropriate.
the US where pricing pressure and discounting are Based on our work performed on the above estimates, we noted no increasingly prevalent.
material misstatements in the appropriateness of revenue recorded As disclosed in the Annual Report, a whistleblower alert was for the year.
received alleging issues in relation to revenue recognition in Following the whistleblower alert in Algeria referred to in the audit Algeria.
Managements investigation did not identify any committee report we extended the amount of substantive testing issues with the application of the revenue recognition policy.
procedures to address the risk in revenue recognition at each of the Refer to the audit committee review of areas of significant in scope components, and found no material misstatements.
accounting judgements page 88, significant accounting policies note 2 and other current liabilities note 27.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 142 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Taxation The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions In conjunction with our UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing due to its geographic spread, resulting in complex crossspecialists, we evaluated and challenged managements judgements border tax arrangements.
As a result, it is subject to periodic in respect of the taxation impacts of the Roxane acquisition, estimates challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters involved in the measurement of uncertain tax provisions and during the normal course of business including transaction judgements taken in the measurement of deferred tax assets.
We related tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements.
In assessed the application of International Accounting Standard 12 addition, the Group acquired Roxane during the year, and Income Taxes in determining the tax base of the deferred tax assets, this acquisition has several complex tax consequences.
and assessed recoverability of assets against forecast taxable income.
Where this has involved judgements, we challenged the judgements We focused on matters relating to the acquisition, the made by management and evaluated these in the context of the recognition, measurement and recoverability of deferred evidence available including examining correspondence with tax assets in the US which has the largest balance, and the tax authorities.
judgements involved in assessing the level of uncertain tax provisions.
In understanding and evaluating managements judgement relating to the level of provisioning for uncertain tax positions, we considered Refer to the audit committee review of areas of significant the status of ongoing tax authority audits, the outcome of previous accounting judgements page 88, tax note 11 and deferred tax authority audits, and developments in the tax environment.
The assumptions and the judgements involved mean that there is a broad range of potential outcomes, but from the evidence available, we considered that the level of provisioning and disclosure is acceptable in the context of the Groups financial statements.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The Group has goodwill of $682 million and intangible We obtained the Groups impairment analyses and tested the integrity assets of $1,719 million.
We assessed the determination of the CGUs identified for the impairment calculation by considering the CGUs All cash generating units CGUs containing goodwill previously used as well as from our understanding of the business and indefinite lived intangible assets must be tested and how it is monitored.
We also tested the reasonableness of the for impairment annually.
key assumptions by challenging management and where possible The determination of recoverable amount, being the higher agreeing information to third party sources.
of value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal, requires In particular, given the key sensitivity around future cash flows we judgement on the part of management in identifying and performed the following procedures: then estimating the recoverable amount for the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements corroborated the information to Board approved budgets view of future cash flow forecasts and external market and forecasts: conditions such as future pricing and the most appropriate performed look back testing to understand how accurate discount rate.
management had been in its forecasting previously: Management performed an annual impairment assessment considered analysts reports and other market information over which included the assumptions and estimates around the expected future market shares and pricing: and success of future product launches, profit margins, growth recalculated the weighted average cost of capital and considered if rates and discount rates.
Changes in these assumptions the amount was within a reasonable range: managements rate of might give rise to a change in the carrying value of 12.5% was considered to be at the higher end of the range for intangibles and goodwill.
Refer to the audit committee review of areas of significant We also obtained managements sensitivity analyses which showed accounting judgements page 88 and intangible assets the impact of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions and note 14. we performed an independent calculation to quantify the change in key assumptions which would be necessary to require an impairment charge.
We determined the judgement made by the Directors that no impairment was required and the disclosures made in the financial statements to be reasonable.
Annual Report 2016 143 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed of misstatements, both individually and on the financial enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, for the financial statements as a whole as follows: and the industry in which the Group operates.
Overall Group $13,275,000 Given 2016 was our first year as external auditors we performed materiality specific procedures over opening balances including reviews of How we 5% of profit before tax from continuing the working papers of the predecessor auditor both at a Group determined it operations after adding back certain and component level and other relevant procedures where these non-recurring items such as the gain on were not available, with the exception of one component where sale of prednisone, Roxane acquisition costs the local auditor has not changed.
Our half year review was also and purchase accounting adjustment items.
used, together with procedures performed prior to year-end on Rationale for The Groups principal measure of earnings evaluating component procedures and controls and visits by benchmark is Core profit.
Management believes that it senior team members to component locations, to refine the applied reflects the underlying performance of the audit approach which we had begun to develop as part of Group and is a more meaningful measure our transition following appointment.
We took this As at 31 December 2016 Hikma Pharmaceutical plc had in measure into account in determining our total 64 entities subsidiaries and associates as part of the materiality but did not add back certain Group.
These entities may operate solely in one segment non-core items unless we deemed them but more commonly operate across two.
Each territory to be truly non-recurring in nature.
Our Component submits a Group Reporting package to Hikmas materiality would have been higher if central accounting team including its income and financial we had adjusted for all non-core items.
position prepared under Group Accounting policies which are Component We instructed each Component team to in compliance with IFRSs.
We requested Component teams materiality perform work to a materiality level which in the US West-Ward Eatontown and West-Ward Columbus, was below that of the Group.
This ranged Jordan Hikma Pharmaceuticals, Saudi Arabia Hikma Al Jazeera between $1 million for the Algerian Pharmaceuticals Industries, Algeria Hikma Pharma Algeria and Component and $10 million for each Portugal Hikma Farmaceutica to audit reporting packages of of the US Components.
certain entities in these territories and report the results of their full scope work to us.
This work was supplemented by procedures We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to over specific balances performed centrally including the them misstatements identified during our audit above $500,000 consolidation, acquisitions, taxation and certain Component as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, balances not covered by local Component teams.
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The involvement of the Group audit team in the work of the Going concern component auditors included conference calls, meetings with Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors local management, review of working papers, attendance at statement, set out on page 61, in relation to going concern.
audit clearance meetings, and other forms of communication We have nothing to report having performed our review.
as considered necessary depending on the significance of the component and the extent of accounting and audit issues arising.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you Given this was our first year as Hikmas auditors, senior members if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to of the Group audit team also visited the US, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, in relation to the directors statement about whether they Jordan and Portugal.
Due to its financial significance and the considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in acquisition of Roxane during 2016, the extent of visits and preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material dialogue with the US Component teams was more extensive.
to add or to draw attention to.
Taken together our audit work accounted for 83% of As noted in the directors statement, the directors have consolidated revenue, 79% of the adjusted profit measure concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis we use as a basis for determining materiality and 78% of in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis consolidated profit before tax.
presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do Materiality so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
