Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 88, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to to report.
be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 88, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to to report.
Annual Report 2016 145 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 54 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the We have nothing Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including material to add or those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 60 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done material to add or so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have to draw attention to.
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
