Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors remuneration What an audit of financial statements involves Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the assurance that the financial statements are free from material Companies Act 2006. misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Other Companies Act 2006 reporting whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration applied and adequately disclosed: specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made arising from this responsibility.
by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Corporate governance statement We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part directors judgements against available evidence, forming our of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other Responsibilities for the financial statements auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain and the audit audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Our responsibilities and those of the directors substantive procedures or a combination of both.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Statement set out on page 139, the directors are responsible in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with for the preparation of the financial statements and for being the audited financial statements and to identify any information satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course financial statements in accordance with applicable law and of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Charles van den Arend responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Senior Statutory Auditor whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 14 March 2017 Annual Report 2016 147
