Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 42.
Defined contribution retirement benefit plan 43.
Acquisition of businesses Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC has defined contribution retirement plans in five of its subsidiaries: Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC United During the year, Hikma acquired two businesses: West-Ward Columbus and EUP.
Kingdom, Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited Jordan, Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Co, West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp and WestWest-Ward Columbus Ward Columbus Pharmaceuticals.
The details of each contribution plan are as follows: On 28 July 2015 Hikma announced that it had agreed to acquire West-Ward Columbus, from Boehringer Ingelheim Boehringer.
WestHikma Pharmaceuticals PLC United Kingdom Ward Columbus is a well-established US specialty generics company with a highly differentiated product portfolio and best-in-class R&D The Group currently has a defined contribution pension plan available for staff working in the United Kingdom whereby the Group capabilities.
Contributions commence after three months employment.
Employees are immediately entitled to 100% The acquisition of West-Ward Columbus will transform Hikmas position and scale in the US generics market, expand the manufacturing of the Groups contributions.
The Groups contributions for the year ended 31 December 2016 were $0.2 million 2015: $0.2 million.
capacity and technological capabilities, add significant breadth to Hikmas US portfolio, create sustainable long-term growth potential.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan: On 29 February 2016, Hikma completed the acquisition of West-Ward Columbus.
The total fair value of the consideration was $1,725 The Group currently has an employee savings plan whereby the Group fully matches employees contributions, which are fixed at 10% million comprising of net cash consideration of $575 million net of certain working capital and other adjustments : 40 million Ordinary up to 2011 was 5% of salary.
Employees are entitled to 30% of the Group contributions after three years of employment with the Shares issued to Boehringer based on Hikmas share price of 18.81 and the US: GBP exchange rate of 1.3879:1 representing an Group and an additional 10% for each subsequent year.
Employees are entitled to 100% of the company contributions after ten years estimated 16.71 per cent.
of Hikma issued share capital immediately following the issuance : a contingent consideration of $224 million of employment with the company.
The Groups contributions for the year ended 31 December 2016 were $2 million 2015: $2 million.
based on future performance: and a purchase price adjustment of $118 million reflecting further working capital adjustments as well as amounts receivable from Boehringer in respect of milestones and other conditions.
Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing PSC Jordan: The Group currently has an employee saving plan whereby the employees contribute at 10%, and the company at 15% of basic salary.
The goodwill arising represents the sustainable long-term growth, the addition of West-Wards Columbus experienced R&D team with a After three years of employment with the company, employees are entitled to 100% of the company contributions.
The Groups successful track record of bringing new and differentiated products to market, the possibility to launch additional pipeline products contributions for the year ended 31 December 2016 were $1 million 2015: $1 million.
including those to launch beyond 2020 future potential unidentified assets and expected synergies not attributable to intangible assets.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the goodwill arising have been valued by a third party expert as set out below.
West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp: 401 k salary saving plan West-Ward Pharmaceutical Corp has a 401 k defined contribution plan, which allows all eligible employees to defer a portion of their Net assets acquired Fair Value $m income through contributions to the plan.
All employees not covered by any collective bargaining agreement are eligible after being Trade and other receivables 170 a employed for 90 days.
Employees can defer up to 95% of their gross salary into the plan, not to exceed $18,000 2015: $18,000, not Inventories 200 b including catch-up contributions available to eligible employees as outlined by the Internal Revenue Service.
The company matches 40% of Other Current Assets 4 the employees eligible contribution.
Employer contributions do not vest for up to two years of service, 50% after two years of service and Intangible assets 723 c 100% after three years of service.
Employees are considered to have completed one year of service for the purposes of vesting upon the completion of 1,000 hours of service at any time during a plan year.
Employer contributions to the plan for the year ended 31 December Property, plant and equipment 447 d 2016 were $3 million 2015: $3 million.
Deferred tax assets 60 Trade and other payables 34 West-Ward Columbus Pharmaceuticals Corp: 401 k salary saving plan Other current liabilities 85 West-Ward Columbus Pharmaceutical Corp has a 401 k defined contribution plan, which allows all eligible employees to defer a portion Deferred tax liabilities 15 of their income through contributions to the plan.
All employees not covered by any collective bargaining agreement are eligible after Other non-current liabilities 152 e being employed for 90 days.
Employees can defer up to 95% of their gross salary into the plan, not to exceed $18,000 for 2016, not Net assets acquired 1,318 including catch-up contributions available to eligible employees as outlined by the Internal Revenue Service.
The company matches 100% on first 5% of the employees eligible contribution.
Employer contributions do not vest for up to two years of service, 20% after two years Goodwill 407 of service and 100% after six years of service.
Employees are considered to have completed one year of service for the purposes of vesting Total consideration 1,725 upon the completion of 1,000 hours of service at any time during a plan year.
Employer contributions to the plan for the year ended 31 December 2016 were $8.1 million.
The assets of the plans are held separately from those of the Group.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit plans is to make specified contributions.
Discharged by: Cash consideration 575 Issuance of share 1,044 Contingent consideration 224 f Adjustment to purchase price 118 g 1,725 Cash consideration 575 Cash and cash equivalents acquired a.
Trade and other receivables include a prepayment related to the Transitional Service Agreement between the Group and Boehringer.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is $170 million and includes trade receivables with a fair value of $158 million.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is $158 million.
Annual Report 2016 197 188 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2016 189 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Inventories have been valued as follows: Raw materials at the current replacement cost.
Finished goods and work in process at the estimated selling prices less a cost to dispose of and complete, less a reasonable profit attributable to the selling effort, this results in an inventory step-up amounted to $27 million note 5. c. Intangible assets represent: Fair value of Marketed products which present the outcome of the R&D efforts, material and formulas.
The Multi Period Excess Earnings Method MEEM of the Income Approach has been used to value those products.
Useful lives of 9 -14 years have been determined.
Fair value of products in various stages of development Pipeline Products.
Useful lives of 7 -15 years have been determined.
d. The Property, plant and equipment acquired have been valued by a third party expert at current market values on the basis of Fair Value as defined in IFRS 13 and in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
e. As part of the acquisition, Hikma assumed a contingent liability related to the co-development with a third party of two specific products that includes payments for milestones and royalties dependent on the net sales see note 32.
These contingent liabilities were recorded as opening balance sheet liabilities based on a probability weighted present value amount at the time of the acquisition.
Subsequent to the acquisition, $10 million of such milestones were paid.
In addition, concurrent with the acquisition, Hikma entered into supply and manufacturing contracts with Boehringer.
f. As part of the acquisition of West-Ward Columbus, Hikma agreed to pay Boehringer contingent consideration of $220 million representing a probability weighted present value of potential liabilities related to two specific products subject to the achievement of certain US FDA approval milestones, royalties for each calendar quarter in the first year that certain conditions exist.
Additionally, there was also $4 million contingent consideration in relation to retention bonus and special advance payments.
Subsequent to the acquisition, $23 million were paid of such milestones and special payments.
g. A purchase price adjustment of $118 million reflecting further working capital adjustments as well amounts receivable from Boehringer in respect of milestones and other conditions notes 18, 23.
Goodwill recognised is expected to be non-deductible for income tax purposes.
The revenue and core operating profit of West-Ward Columbus from the date of the acquisition, included in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year amounted to $477 million and $34 million, respectively.
These numbers exclude acquisition, integration, and other costs amounting to $41 million, the amortisation of the fair value uplift of the inventory of $27 million, and the intangible amortisation of $ 15 million EUP On 8 September 2015 Hikma announced that it had agreed to acquire 97.73% of the share capital of EUP from a consortium of shareholders.
EUP is a pharmaceutical manufacturing company specialising in oncology products.
The acquisition of EUP will strengthen Hikmas position in the large and fast growing Egyptian market, add an attractive portfolio and pipeline in the key strategic areas of oncology and injectables, add a manufacturing facility in Egypt, with both oral and injectable lines, and leverage Hikmas established market position in Egypt and strong sales and marketing team.
th On closing the transaction on Feb 17 2016, the total fair value of the consideration is deemed to be $38 million.
$34 million is cash consideration and the balance of $4 million has been treated as deferred consideration.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 198 190 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Inventories have been valued as follows: The goodwill arising represents the synergies that will be obtained by integrating EUP into the existing business.
Raw materials at the current replacement cost.
Finished goods and work in process at the estimated selling prices less a cost to dispose of and complete, less a reasonable profit Net assets acquired Fair Value $m attributable to the selling effort, this results in an inventory step-up amounted to $27 million note 5.
Cash and cash equivalents 1 c. Intangible assets represent: Inventories 1 Fair value of Marketed products which present the outcome of the R&D efforts, material and formulas.
The Multi Period Excess Intangible Assets 21 a Earnings Method MEEM of the Income Approach has been used to value those products.
Useful lives of 9 -14 years have been Property, plant and equipment 11 b determined.
Financial debt 1 Fair value of products in various stages of development Pipeline Products.
The Multi Period Excess Earnings Method MEEM of Income tax provision 1 the Income Approach has been used to value those products.
Other current liabilities 2 Deferred tax liability 6 d. The Property, plant and equipment acquired have been valued by a third party expert at current market values on the basis of Fair Value Net assets acquired 24 as defined in IFRS 13 and in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
e. As part of the acquisition, Hikma assumed a contingent liability related to the co-development with a third party of two specific Non-controlling interest 1 c products that includes payments for milestones and royalties dependent on the net sales see note 32.
These contingent liabilities were Goodwill 13 recorded as opening balance sheet liabilities based on a probability weighted present value amount at the time of the acquisition.
Total consideration 38 Subsequent to the acquisition, $10 million of such milestones were paid.
Discharged by: f. As part of the acquisition of West-Ward Columbus, Hikma agreed to pay Boehringer contingent consideration of $220 million representing a probability weighted present value of potential liabilities related to two specific products subject to the achievement of Cash 34 certain US FDA approval milestones, royalties for each calendar quarter in the first year that certain conditions exist.
Additionally, there Deferred consideration 4 was also $4 million contingent consideration in relation to retention bonus and special advance payments.
Subsequent to the 38 acquisition, $23 million were paid of such milestones and special payments.
g. A purchase price adjustment of $118 million reflecting further working capital adjustments as well amounts receivable from Boehringer Cash consideration 34 in respect of milestones and other conditions notes 18, 23.
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 1 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition 33 Goodwill recognised is expected to be non-deductible for income tax purposes.
The revenue and core operating profit of West-Ward Columbus from the date of the acquisition, included in the Groups consolidated a.
Product rights relating to product licenses and approvals have been valued based on the type of rights acquired.
A discounted cash flow approach has been statement of comprehensive income for the year amounted to $477 million and $34 million, respectively.
These numbers exclude taken based on excess earnings by product group, applying a discount rate applicable for any market participant.
The product rights have been valued using acquisition, integration, and other costs amounting to $41 million, the amortisation of the fair value uplift of the inventory of $27 million, a model that reflects a market participant point of view, where assumptions were built based on the expected market performance for these products and the intangible amortisation of $ 15 million irrespective of the acquirers identity.
The property, plant and equipment acquired have been valued by a third party expert at current market value.
EUP c. The non-controlling interests have been recognised as a proportion of net assets acquired.
On 8 September 2015 Hikma announced that it had agreed to acquire 97.73% of the share capital of EUP from a consortium of Goodwill recognised is expected to be non-deductible for income tax purposes.
The acquisition of EUP will strengthen Hikmas position in the large and fast growing Egyptian market, add an attractive portfolio and pipeline in the key strategic areas of The revenue and core operating loss of EUP from the date of the acquisition that is included in the Groups consolidated statement of oncology and injectables, add a manufacturing facility in Egypt, with both oral and injectable lines, and leverage Hikmas established comprehensive income for the year amounted to $4 million and $3 million, respectively.
market position in Egypt and strong sales and marketing team.
Full period impact of acquisitions: th On closing the transaction on Feb 17 2016, the total fair value of the consideration is deemed to be $38 million.
$34 million is cash If the acquisition of West-Ward Columbus and EUP had been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Groups revenues for the consideration and the balance of $4 million has been treated as deferred consideration.
period would have been approximately $2,057 million and the Groups profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been approximately $154 million.
The appropriate additional contribution by entity for the period from the beginning of the year up to the acquisition date is illustrated in the table below: Effect on Effect on Groups Groups revenues profit loss $m $m West-Ward Columbus 107 1 EUP 2 107 1 Annual Report 2016 199 190 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2016 191
