Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 2016 2015 1.
Adoption of new and revised standards Basis of preparation Note $m $m The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLCs consolidated financial statements are Net cash from operating activities 36 293 366 been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any prepared in accordance with: significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial i EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Investing activities statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Purchases of property, plant and equipment 122 82 and arrangements.
Standards Interpretations Committee and those parts of the Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 31 IFRS 11 Amendments Accounting for Acquisitions of Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies using IFRS.
Purchase of intangible assets 68 55 Interests in Joint Operations Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 24 ii International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the Amendments IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Investment in financial and other non-current assets 11 IAS 19 Amendments Defined Benefit Plans: Employees Investment in available for sale investments 6 1 Contributions The financial statements have been prepared under the historical Investments designated at fair value 20 cost convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods Acquisition of business undertakings net of cash acquired 515 Amendments of Depreciation and Amortisation financial assets and liabilities.
Finance income 2 3 IAS 27 Amendments Equity Method in Separate Financial The Groups previously published financial statements were also Statements Acquisition related amounts held in escrow account 38 prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB and also in IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets Net cash used in investing activities 695 162 accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union.
Amendments between an Investor and it Associate Financing activities or Joint venture The presentational and functional currency of Hikma Decrease increase in collateralised and restricted cash 4 6 IAS 1 Amendments Disclosure Initiative Pharmaceuticals PLC is the US dollar as the majority of the Proceeds from issue of long-term financial debts 471 529 Companys business is conducted in US dollars.
Annual improvements Repayment of long-term financial debts 326 91 2010-2012 Going concern Proceeds from short-term borrowings 345 325 Annual improvements The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial Repayment of short-term borrowings 337 595 2012-2014 statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Dividends paid 77 64 The following Standards and Interpretations have not been applied Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries 1 2 in these financial statements because while in issue, are not yet existence and therefore considered the going concern basis as Interest paid 54 49 effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : appropriate.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis Proceeds from issue of new shares 1 of accounting in preparing the financial statements see page 61.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Proceeds from co-development and earnout payment agreement, net 2 17 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Net cash generated by financing activities 19 77 Basis of consolidation Customers The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 383 281 IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS Investment Entities: Applying the Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC the Company and entities controlled Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 553 280 28 Amendments Consolidation Exemption by the Company together the Group.
Foreign exchange translation movements 15 8 IFRS 16 Leases Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 155 553 The consolidated financial statements include: IAS 12 Amendments Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses The assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the Company and its subsidiaries, IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosure of financial instruments, IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue The Groups share of the results and net assets of associates recognition and related disclosure, and IFRS 16 will impact leased and joint ventures assets and financial liabilities and related disclosures.
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to Until a detailed review is completed: the Directors do not find it 31 December each year.
practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the effects of the Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant above listed IFRS on the financials statements of the Group in activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through future periods.
control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for as subsidiaries.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint 2.
Significant accounting policies control over, and rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are General Information accounted for as joint ventures.
Where the Group has the ability to Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is a company incorporated in the exercise significant influence over entities, they are accounted for United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the as associates.
registered office is given on page 212.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Annual Report 2016 153 144 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2016 145 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by 2.
Significant accounting policies continued the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the Group acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated from accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted the date control ceases.
during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated and liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries until the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date products are sold to customers outside the Group.
that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are recorded directly in equity.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
subject to a maximum of one year.
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures Investment in associates and associates.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint Business combinations venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition financial and operating policy decisions of the investee revenue method.
The consideration is measured at the aggregate of the fair but is not control or joint control over those policies.
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in in these financial statements using the equity method of exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for postSubsequent changes in those fair values can only affect the acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the measurement of goodwill where they occur during the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual measurement period and are as a result of additional information investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups becoming available about facts and circumstances that existed at interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests the acquisition date.
All other changes are dealt with in accordance that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the with relevant IFRSs.
This will usually mean that changes in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has fair value of consideration are recognised in the consolidated incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on income statement.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the consolidated income statement.
carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, consideration, non-controlling interest and fair value of previously profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups held equity interest over the fair values of the identifiable net assets interest in the relevant associate.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the consideration, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
The non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 154 146 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by Chargebacks 2.
Significant accounting policies continued the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, The provision for chargebacks is the most significant and complex Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the Foreign currencies estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
In the US, the Group Group acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated from accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted Foreign currency transactions, being transactions denominated in sells its products directly to wholesale distributors, generic the date control ceases.
during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or a currency other than an individual Group entitys functional distributors, retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
The Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated and liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about currency, are translated into the relevant functional currencies of Group also sells its products indirectly to independent pharmacies, no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries until the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date individual Group entities at average rates for the relevant monthly managed care organisations, hospitals, and group purchasing products are sold to customers outside the Group.
that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as accounting periods, which approximate to actual rates.
Monetary organisations, collectively referred to as indirect customers.
assets and liabilities arising from foreign currency transactions are The Group enters into agreements with its indirect customers to Transactions with non-controlling interests are recorded directly retranslated at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
establish pricing for certain products.
The indirect customers then in equity.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition Exchange gains and losses on loans and on short-term foreign independently select a wholesaler from which they purchase the to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for currency borrowings and deposits are included within finance products at agreed-upon prices.
The Group will provide credit to and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
Exchange differences on all other foreign currency the wholesaler for the difference between the agreed-upon price subject to a maximum of one year.
transactions are recognised in operating profit in the individual with the indirect customer and the wholesalers invoice price.
This Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries Group entitys accounting records.
Non-monetary items arising and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures Investment in associates credit is called a chargeback.
The provision for chargebacks is from foreign currency transactions are not retranslated in the based on historical sell-through levels by the Groups wholesale and associates.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant individual Group entitys accounting records.
In the Consolidated customers to the indirect customers, and estimated wholesaler influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint Business combinations Financial Statements, income and expense items for Group entities inventory levels.
As sales are made to large wholesale customers, venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition with a functional currency other than US dollars are translated into the Group continually monitors the reserve for chargebacks and financial and operating policy decisions of the investee revenue method.
The consideration is measured at the aggregate of the fair US dollars at average exchange rates, which approximate to actual makes adjustments when it believes that actual chargebacks may but is not control or joint control over those policies.
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred rates, for the relevant accounting periods.
Assets and liabilities are differ from estimated reserves.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in translated at the US dollar exchange rates prevailing at the in these financial statements using the equity method of Returns exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are reporting date.
Exchange differences arising on consolidation accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for The Group has a product return policy that allows customers recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
are recognised in other comprehensive income.
sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 to return the product within a specified period prior to and Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Hyperinflationary economies subsequent to the expiration date.
Provisions for returns are any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried In hyperinflationary economies, when translating the results of recognised as a reduction of revenue in the period in which the arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for postoperations into US dollars, assets, liabilities, income statement underlying sales are recognised.
Subsequent changes in those fair values can only affect the acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the and equity accounts are translated at the rates prevailing on the measurement of goodwill where they occur during the The Group estimates its provision for returns based on historical associate, less any impairment in the value of individual balance sheet date.
Sudan is considered being a hyperinflationary measurement period and are as a result of additional information experience, representing managements best estimate.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups economy in both the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2016. becoming available about facts and circumstances that existed at experience has enabled reasonable estimations in the past, history interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests The effect of inflation accounting in Sudan for the years ended the acquisition date.
All other changes are dealt with in accordance may not always be an accurate indicator of future returns.
The that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the 31 December 2016 and 2015 was not material.
This will usually mean that changes in the Group continually monitors the provisions for returns and makes associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has fair value of consideration are recognised in the consolidated adjustments when it believes that actual product returns may differ Revenue recognition incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on income statement.
Dynamic market changes can generate uncertainty as to the behalf of the associate.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups ultimate net selling price of a pharmaceutical product and Rebates Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to therefore revenue cannot always be measured reliably at the In certain countries, rebates are granted to healthcare authorities the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains point when the product is supplied or made available to and under contractual arrangements with certain customers.
liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the external customers.
Products sold in the US are covered by various programmes recognised as goodwill.
such as Medicaid under which products are sold at a discount.
Revenue is recognised in the consolidated income statement carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities when goods or services are supplied or made available to external as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the The Group estimates its provision for rebates based on current that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are customers against orders received and when title and risk of loss net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent contractual terms and conditions as well as historical experience, recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is changes to business practices and credit terms.
While such recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and experience has enabled reasonable estimations in the past, history Revenue represents the amounts receivable after the deduction initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of may not always be an accurate indicator of future rebate liabilities.
of discounts, value added tax, other sales taxes, allowances given, Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, consideration, non-controlling interest and fair value of previously The Group continually monitors the provisions for rebates and provisions for chargebacks and accruals for estimated future profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups held equity interest over the fair values of the identifiable net assets makes adjustments when it believes that actual rebates may differ rebates and returns.
The methodology and assumptions used to interest in the relevant associate.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair from established reserves.
All rebates are recognised in the estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent period in which the underlying sales are recognised as a in light of contractual and historical information.
liabilities exceeds the cost of the consideration, the excess is reduction of revenue.
If the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
revenue recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be The non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at made.
Deferred revenue is included in other current liabilities in the the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the consolidated balance sheet.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Annual Report 2016 155 146 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2016 147 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued number of equity instruments expected to vest except for failure 2.
Significant accounting policies continued to satisfy a market vesting condition and the impact of the revision Price adjustments of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated income statement, such that the cumulative expense reflects the Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity are credits issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices of reserves.
Where the terms of a share-based payments award are the Groups products that customers have remaining in their modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms inventories at the time of the price reduction.
Decreases in selling had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for prices are discretionary decisions made by Group management to any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the reflect competitive market conditions.
Amounts recorded for modification, as measured at the modification date.
Where a estimated shelf stock adjustments are based upon specified terms share-based payments award is cancelled, it is treated as if it with direct customers, estimated declines in market prices and had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet estimates of inventory held by customers.
The Group regularly recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a monitors these and other factors and re-evaluates the reserve as new award is substituted for a cancelled award, and designated as additional information becomes available.
a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled Free goods and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the Free goods are issued to customers as sale incentives, original award, as described above.
The dilutive effect of reimbursement of agreed upon expenses incurred by the customer outstanding share-based payments is reflected as additional share or as compensation for expired or returned goods.
Free goods dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
are recognised at cost at the date at which one of the above Retirement benefit costs conditions is met.
The costs associated with free goods are Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are classified as cost of sales.
charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to stateShare-based payments managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations in the form of share-based payments, whereby employees render under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equitycontribution retirement benefit scheme.
Borrowing costs IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments requires an expense to be Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, recognised when the Group buys goods or services in exchange construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets for shares or rights over shares share-based payments or in that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for exchange for other equivalent assets.
their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their The cost of share-based payments transactions with employees intended use or sale.
is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which the share-based payments are granted.
The fair value of the equity Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific settled stock options scheme is determined using a binomial borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is model.
The fair value of the management incentive plan is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
determined based on the share price as at the date of grant All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated discounted by dividend yield.
The fair value of the long-term income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
incentive plan is determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model, for long-term incentive plan awards made from 2010, 50% of the Dividend income award is subject to a TSR performance condition which is valued by Income from investments is recognised when the shareholders applying the Monte Carlo simulation methodology, the remaining rights to receive payment have been established.
50% of the award is subject to financial metrics and valued by applying a Black-Scholes model.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations further details payable under operating leases are charged to income on a are given in Note 38.
In valuing share-based payments, no account straight-line basis over the term of the operating lease.
Benefits is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating linked to the market price of the shares of Hikma lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The cost of share-based payments is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
The Group revises its estimate of the Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 156 148 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements number of equity instruments expected to vest except for failure Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally 2.
Significant accounting policies continued to satisfy a market vesting condition and the impact of the revision enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Price adjustments of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the income statement, such that the cumulative expense reflects the taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity assets and liabilities on a net basis.
are credits issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in reserves.
Where the terms of a share-based payments award are the Groups products that customers have remaining in their the balance sheet as a capital lease obligation.
Lease payments are The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms inventories at the time of the price reduction.
Decreases in selling apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for prices are discretionary decisions made by Group management to obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the reflect competitive market conditions.
Amounts recorded for remaining balance of the liability.
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
modification, as measured at the modification date.
Where a estimated shelf stock adjustments are based upon specified terms share-based payments award is cancelled, it is treated as if it Government grants Deferred tax is booked on unrealised inter-company profits on with direct customers, estimated declines in market prices and had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet inventory sales, to the extent they are expected to unwind, at the estimates of inventory held by customers.
The Group regularly Government grants relating to property, plant and recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a rate applicable to the distribution company.
Where there is a monitors these and other factors and re-evaluates the reserve as equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the new award is substituted for a cancelled award, and designated as significant difference between the tax rates of the relevant additional information becomes available.
consolidated income statement over the expected useful lives of a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled companies, this creates deferred tax that can materially impact the the assets concerned.
Free goods and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the Groups effective tax rate.
In 2016, this had a 6.7% favourable Tax Free goods are issued to customers as sale incentives, original award, as described above.
The dilutive effect of impact on the effective tax rate.
reimbursement of agreed upon expenses incurred by the customer The Group provides for income tax according to the laws and outstanding share-based payments is reflected as additional share Exceptional items and other adjustments or as compensation for expired or returned goods.
Free goods regulations prevailing in the countries where the Group operates.
dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Exceptional items are recognised at cost at the date at which one of the above Furthermore, the Group computes and records deferred tax assets Retirement benefit costs conditions is met.
The costs associated with free goods are and liabilities according to IAS 12 Income Taxes.
The Group presents core earnings by making adjustments for Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are classified as cost of sales.
costs and profits which management believes to be exceptional in The tax expense represents the sum of the tax in the current period charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to statenature by virtue of their size or incidence or have a distortive effect and deferred tax.
Share-based payments managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments on current year earnings.
Such items include costs associated with Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations The current tax incurred in the period is based on taxable profit for business combinations, one-off gains and losses on disposal of in the form of share-based payments, whereby employees render under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the businesses assets, reorganisation cost, write-down and impairment services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equitycontribution retirement benefit scheme.
consolidated income statement because it excludes items of charges on assets and impairment of goodwill, net of any tax settled transactions.
income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and impact.
Borrowing costs it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments requires an expense to be Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, Other adjustments Groups tax incurred is calculated using tax rates that have been recognised when the Group buys goods or services in exchange construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets These include amortisation of intangibles excluding software and enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
for shares or rights over shares share-based payments or in that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for finance cost resulted from remeasurement of contingent liabilities, exchange for other equivalent assets.
their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on net of any tax impact.
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities The cost of share-based payments transactions with employees Intangible assets intended use or sale.
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which the the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the An intangible asset is recognised if: share-based payments are granted.
The fair value of the equity Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally settled stock options scheme is determined using a binomial borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is it is identifiable: recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax model.
it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable determined based on the share price as at the date of grant are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group: and All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated profits will be available against which deductible temporary discounted by dividend yield.
To the extent the temporary difference the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
incentive plan is determined using a Monte Carlo valuation model, arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a for long-term incentive plan awards made from 2010, 50% of the The probability of expected future economic benefits is assessed Dividend income business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction award is subject to a TSR performance condition which is valued by using reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent Income from investments is recognised when the shareholders that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit, no applying the Monte Carlo simulation methodology, the remaining managements best estimate of the set of economic conditions rights to receive payment have been established.
50% of the award is subject to financial metrics and valued by that will exist over the useful life of the asset.
Leasing Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Judgement is used to assess the degree of certainty attached to the Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on flow of future economic benefits that are attributable to the use of lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, the asset on the basis of the evidence available at the time of initial the lessee.
Rentals to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations further details recognition, giving greater weight to external evidence.
payable under operating leases are charged to income on a probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the are given in Note 38.
is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating linked to the market price of the shares of Hikma Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated The cost of share-based payments is recognised, together with a income statement, except when it relates to items charged or corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also vesting period based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments dealt with in equity.
The Group revises its estimate of the Annual Report 2016 157 148 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2016 149 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Property, plant and equipment 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment have been stated at cost on Expenditures on research and development activities are charged acquisition and are depreciated on a straight-line basis except for to the consolidated income statement, except only when the land at the following depreciation rates: criteria for recognising an internally generated intangible asset are met, which is usually when approval from the relevant regulatory Buildings 2% to 4% authority is considered probable.
Machinery 5% to 33% Also, the Group engages with third party research and Vehicles, Fixtures and equipment 6% to 33% development companies to develop products on its behalf.
A units of production method of depreciation is applied to Payments made to such third parties to fund research and operations in their start-up phase, as this reflects the expected development efforts are recognised as intangible assets if the pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied capitalisation criteria for recognising an intangible asset are in the assets.
When these assets are fully utilised, a straight-line met, all other payments are charged to the consolidated method of depreciation is applied.
Projects under construction are not depreciated until construction Principle intangible assets are: has been completed and assets are considered ready for use.
a Goodwill: arising in a business combination is recognised as an Any additional costs that extend the useful life of property, plant asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Property, plant and equipment Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the which are financed by leases giving Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are capitalised interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and of the acquisition-date fair value of the identifiable assets depreciated in the same manner as other property, plant and acquired and the liabilities assumed.
equipment over the shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the Whenever the recoverable amount of an asset is impaired, the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the carrying value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling impairment loss is taken to the consolidated income statement.
interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers Projects under construction are carried at cost, less any recognised previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess impairment loss.
is recognised immediately in the consolidated income Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other statement as a bargain purchase gain.
property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is intended use.
included in the determination of the consolidated income The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is statement on disposal.
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the b Customer relationships: represent the value attributed to the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the consolidated long-term relationships held with existing customers at the date income statement.
of acquisition and are amortised over their useful economic life.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment c Product related intangibles: and intangible assets i Product files and under-licenced products recognised At the same time each year the Group carries out an impairment through acquisitions, and from development activities are review for goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets.
At amortised over their useful economic lives once the asset is the year end the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its ready for use.
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that are subject to amortisation to determine whether there is any ii In process product files recognised on acquisition are indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If amortised over the useful economic life once the asset is any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is ready for use.
estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
d Trade name: some trade names are assigned indefinite useful In consideration of the impairment review, the Group compare the lives and others have finite useful lives over which they are carrying value of the asset to its recoverable amount.
amortised where applicable, in the period from acquisition.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell e Marketing rights: are amortised over their useful lives and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future commencing in the year in which the rights first generate sales.
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time f Purchased software: is amortised over the useful economic value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the life when the asset is ready for use.
estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 158 150 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements Property, plant and equipment Inventories 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment have been stated at cost on Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Expenditures on research and development activities are charged If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is acquisition and are depreciated on a straight-line basis except for Purchased products are stated at acquisition cost including all to the consolidated income statement, except only when the estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount land at the following depreciation rates: additional attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its criteria for recognising an internally generated intangible asset are of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable present location and condition.
The costs of own-manufactured met, which is usually when approval from the relevant regulatory amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Buildings 2% to 4% products comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct authority is considered probable.
consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried Machinery 5% to 33% labour costs and any overheads that have been incurred in bringing at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated Also, the Group engages with third party research and Vehicles, Fixtures and equipment 6% to 33% the inventories to their present location and condition.
In the as a revaluation decrease to the extent that it does not exceed the development companies to develop products on its behalf.
balance sheet, inventory is primarily valued at standard cost, which previous revaluation surplus, and any excess is recognised in the A units of production method of depreciation is applied to Payments made to such third parties to fund research and approximates to historical cost determined on a moving average consolidated income statement.
operations in their start-up phase, as this reflects the expected development efforts are recognised as intangible assets if the basis, and this value is used to determine the cost of sales in the pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied capitalisation criteria for recognising an intangible asset are Where an impairment loss for the asset, other than goodwill, consolidated income statement.
Net realisable value represents the in the assets.
When these assets are fully utilised, a straight-line met, all other payments are charged to the consolidated subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cashestimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less all method of depreciation is applied.
generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Inventory related recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount Projects under construction are not depreciated until construction provisions are made for net realisable value lower than cost, slow Principle intangible assets are: does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been has been completed and assets are considered ready for use.
moving and short dated inventory.
a Goodwill: arising in a business combination is recognised as an determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset Any additional costs that extend the useful life of property, plant asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment Cash and cash equivalents and equipment are capitalised.
Property, plant and equipment Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with which are financed by leases giving Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued original maturities of three months or less and are subject to an substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are capitalised interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is insignificant risk of changes in value.
at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net treated as a revaluation increase.
the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and Financial instruments of the acquisition-date fair value of the identifiable assets The Groups Goodwill and intangible assets are tested as follows: depreciated in the same manner as other property, plant and acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the equipment over the shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
a Goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the Whenever the recoverable amount of an asset is impaired, the units.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been contractual provisions of the instrument.
acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the carrying value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling Financial assets impairment loss is taken to the consolidated income statement.
frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers Projects under construction are carried at cost, less any recognised Financial assets are classified into four categories: financial assets impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess impairment loss.
at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, held-to-maturity is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income investments, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other statement as a bargain purchase gain.
The classification depends on the nature and allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in intended use.
included in the determination of the consolidated income the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is statement on disposal.
All financial assets are initially recognised and derecognised on a determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the trade date, where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under b Customer relationships: represent the value attributed to the b Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life or not yet carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the consolidated a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset and long-term relationships held with existing customers at the date ready for use are not subject to amortisation and are tested income statement.
are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs.
For those of acquisition and are amortised over their useful economic life.
annually for impairment or more frequently if events or financial assets classified as at fair value through profit and loss are Impairment of property, plant and equipment changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired.
c Product related intangibles: initially measured at fair value.
and intangible assets Other intangible assets tested for impairment whenever events i Product files and under-licenced products recognised or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount At the same time each year the Group carries out an impairment i Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss through acquisitions, and from development activities are may not be recoverable.
review for goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets.
At As part of West-Ward Columbus acquisition, the Group will be amortised over their useful economic lives once the asset is the year end the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its The assumptions used in the impairment tests are set out in note 14. reimbursed for certain contingent payments in respect of ready for use.
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that are milestones and other conditions based on future events.
Those subject to amortisation to determine whether there is any ii In process product files recognised on acquisition are financial assets are revalued at the end of each reporting period to indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If amortised over the useful economic life once the asset is represent the value of the expected cashflows and the difference is any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is ready for use.
presented as finance cost income.
These financial assets are estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
currently booked under other current and non-current assets in the d Trade name: some trade names are assigned indefinite useful In consideration of the impairment review, the Group compare the consolidated balance sheet.
lives and others have finite useful lives over which they are carrying value of the asset to its recoverable amount.
Annual Report 2016 159 150 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2016 151 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Contingent consideration arising from West-ward Columbus 2.
Significant accounting policies continued acquisition represent contractual liabilities to make payments to ii Available for sale financial assets third parties in the form of milestone payments that are Listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the Group that dependent on the achievement of certain US FDA approval are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are milestones: and royalty payments based on future sales of stated at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair certain products that are currently under development.
Further value are recognised in other comprehensive income, with the details can be seen in note 43. exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the Financial liabilities are revalued at the end of each reporting period effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on to represent the value of expected future cash outflows and the monetary assets, which are recognised directly in the consolidated difference is presented as finance cost income.
Where the investment is disposed of or is liabilities are currently booked under other current and non-current determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
The Groups investments in ii Other financial liabilities unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market and the fair Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially value of which cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, less measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
a provision for any impairment loss, which is taken to the consolidated income statement.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense iii Loans and receivables recognised on an effective yield basis.
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or The effective interest method is a method of calculating the determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the Derivative financial instruments amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the Groups income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
The principal rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including derivative instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the and foreign exchange forward and option contracts.
The Group effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or discounts through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, speculative purposes.
where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on Hedge accounting initial recognition.
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, in respect of Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt interest rate and foreign currency risk, as cash flow hedges.
Hedges instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified in two categories: financial liabilities At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
The classification depends the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged on the nature and purpose of the financial liabilities and is item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for determined at the time of initial recognition.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group tests i Financial liabilities at FVTPL whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
The Group currently has two financial liabilities at FVTPL as below: Note 31 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative Co-development and earn out payment agreements with instruments used for hedging purposes.
third parties where the Group earns milestone payments reflecting the achievement of R&D and commercialisation Cash flow hedge milestones.
Those payments are recognised as financial The effective portion of changes in the fair value of a derivative liabilities once received.
that is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 160 152 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc
