Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 2016 overview 2016 Highlights Membership and attendance Implemented our medium-term Independent Director The Nomination and Governance Committee consists of five succession plan Directors.
Four are Independent Non-Executive Directors: Robert Pickering, who is the Committee Chair, Michael Ashton, Pat Butler Undertook a non-executive search process leading to the and Nina Henderson.
The fifth is Mazen Darwazah, the Executive appointment of Nina Henderson Vice Chairman.
The Committee met four times during the year.
Inducted three new Non-Executive Directors Meeting Enhanced Board gender diversity Members Member since Attended Potential attendance Reviewed and upgraded the Board evaluation programme Robert Pickering Chair 1 Sep 2011 4 4 100% Initiated a transition process for the Compliance, Responsibility Michael Ashton 14 Oct 2005 3 4 75% and Ethics Committee Chair Pat Butler 1 Apr 2014 4 4 100% Enhanced the Companys internal governance and Nina Henderson 1 Oct 2016 1 1 100% MAR processes Mazen Darwazah 14 Oct 2005 4 4 100% Total meetings 4 95% 2017 Priorities Progressing any matters raised by the Board evaluation exercise Allocation of time Further developing the executive succession plan Calendar of events Skills and experience 9% Independence 9% Diversity 11% Succession 11% Corporate governance 60% Q1 Q2 Director search Director search Report to shareholders US NED appointment Board evaluation Governance processes enhancements Annual governance review Advisers Internal External Q3 Q4 Chairman and Chief Executive Odgers Berndtson VP Human Resources and Lintstock Board and Committee Board evaluation review MENA Operations structure review Training Company Secretary NED re-appointments and Director search Governance processes enhancements Annual Report 2016 93 Committee reports: Nomination and Governance continued Responsibilities The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible for corporate governance and succession planning, including the progressive refreshing of the Board and reviewing the appropriateness of the size, structure and composition of the Board.
The Nomination and Governance Committee also operates, monitors and reviews the conflicts of interest procedures, which have operated effectively during the year.
The Nomination and Governance Committee terms of reference include all matters prescribed by the Code and clearly set out its authority and duties.
They are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis and are available on the Hikma website, at the registered office at 13 Hanover Square, London, W1S 1HW and by contacting cosec@hikma.
Diversity Diversity policy Hikma is committed to employing and engaging the best people, irrespective of background, gender, orientation, race, age or disability.
Since its founding, Hikma continues to have excellent diversity in terms of culture, age, background, skills and experience.
Gender diversity Hikma has a long history of a significant number of women holding executive management positions, a number of whom have worked for the Company for the majority of their careers see pages 74 to 75 for the Executive Committee membership.
Hikma continues to promote gender diversity through the Women Entrepreneurs Day WED, a United Nations event aimed at celebrating, empowering and supporting women in business worldwide.
A number of senior Hikma women were speakers at a WED held in Jordan.
The Committee considered Board diversity at several stages through 2016 and appointed a second female Director during the year under review.
The Committee considers that it would be appropriate to improve further gender diversity and will seek to do so as succession opportunities arise.
The Committee only engages executive search firms who are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice.
Ethnic diversity Hikma grew from a Jordanian, to a regional and then global company.
Partly as a result of its heritage, Hikma has staff from all over the world at every level of seniority.
Hikma has used the Parker Reviews definitions in order to provide the graphical detail in the ethnicity charts below.
Board Executive Committee Hikma Group Gender Ethnicity Gender Ethnicity Gender Ethnicity Women 18% Non-white 27% Women 20% Non-white 70% Women 32% Non-white 65% Men 82% White 73% Men 80% White 30% Men 68% White 35% Estimated Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 94 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements The Senior Independent Director and other Committee Succession members met the shortlisted candidates, discussed their impressions at the Nomination and Governance Planning Committee and made recommendations As in previous years, the Committee continued A second round of meetings was undertaken with the its work on planning for executive succession.
The Chairman and Chief Executive and the Vice Chairman Committee reviewed the executives assessment of senior managements capabilities and development Following a full induction process and Nina Henderson needs to ensure that there is a sufficient pipeline for confirming her desire to join the Board, the Committee executive positions.
The Committee is pleased to report recommended the appointment of Nina Henderson to that the succession plans for executives are appropriate.
the Board The Company communicated its medium-term Odgers Berndtson, the search adviser, did not and does succession plan for Non-Executive Directors to investors on not have any further connection with the Company.
This plan provides for the retirement of Michael Ashton in May 2017 and Dr Ronald Goode Board review in May 2018, as well as the transfer of their respective Committee responsibilities.
The medium-term succession Skills and experience plan, which was implemented during 2016, allows for The broad range of skills and experience of Board the gradual rotation of Independent Non-Executives members has greatly assisted in the success of Hikma.
and for a full induction and the transfer of knowledge In view of the current succession plans, the Nomination and relationships.
and Governance Committee undertakes an in-depth Independent Non-Executive Directors are normally analysis of each role on the Board before considering new expected to serve for up to nine years.
The Committee aims to preserve the Boards invited to serve for longer, but additional service beyond broad spread of experience, which provides the necessary nine years is subject to particularly rigorous review.
checks and balances for safeguarding the interests of the Group.
While each Director possesses different skills, the The medium-term plan allows for the orderly transition Committee believes that all Directors at Hikma share the of Committee chairmanship roles, allowing time to following important characteristics: ensure that all parties on the Board from management are prepared for the change.
Challenging yet consensual style In terms of the process for identifying candidates, the Independence of mind and clarity of thought Committee has the necessary authority to advance the Significant experience at an executive search process to the point when a shortlist of candidates management level or a candidate is proposed to the Board.
International business exposure The Nomination and Governance Committee undertook Additionally, the Committee considers that across the a process to identify a candidate to join the Board as an Board as a whole and on the executive and non-executive additional Independent Non-Executive Director, which teams it is important to ensure at least two members have can be summarised as follows: significant experience in the following areas: The Senior Independent Director, in consultation Middle East and North Africa, particularly the business with the Chairman and Chief Executive with the and political environment assistance of the Company Secretary, established US pharmaceutical and regulatory environment a role and experience profile for the position of Non-Executive Director Pharmaceutical manufacturing, quality and sales processes A draft profile and the key characteristics and experience required were discussed by the Business ethics and business integrity programmes Nomination and Governance Committee Strategy and risk management Following an assessment of the executive search UK and international listed environment market, Odgers Berndtson was appointed to Human resources and remuneration governance identify candidates who met the role profile For further information on the diverse skills and An extensive list of candidates was identified by experience of our current Directors, please see Odgers Berndtson and a shortlist was created through the biographical details on pages 71 to 73. discussions with the Senior Independent Director and other committee members Annual Report 2016 95 Committee reports: Nomination and Governance continued Chairman and Chief Executive Governance The Committee and the Independent Non-Executive The Committee has full responsibility for governance Directors keep under review the position of Chairman matters for the Board.
This includes the annual process of and Chief Executive and the governance safeguards that reviewing the procedures in the Board Governance Manual, were implemented at the time of the combination of roles the compliance with the UK Code, and considering the in May 2014 a full rationale and process is included in governance agenda for the following year.
The Committee the 2013 Annual Report on pages 63 to 64, a summary also keeps abreast of governance developments throughout version is included in this report on pages 76 to 77.
The the year and makes adjustments in an orderly manner.
Independent Non-Executive Directors met regularly during During the year, the Committee strengthened the internal the year without management present and discussed, governance processes to take account of the Market amongst other issues, the safeguards and functioning of Abuse Regulation.
The Independent Directors considered that the For and on behalf of the Nomination and safeguards are effective and that the combined position Governance Committee continued to be appropriate.
The Committee noted the Independent Directors position and concluded that the combined position continues to be appropriate.
Election and re-election Each member of the Board will stand for election Robert Pickering or re-election at the 2017 AGM, with the exception Nomination and Governance Committee Chair of Michael Ashton who will step down at the close of the 2017 AGM.
The positions of each Board member 14 March 2017 were considered in detail during the year as part of the review of succession arrangements, consideration of independence issues, the Board and Committee evaluation processes and the ongoing dialogue between the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 96 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Case study Nina Henderson induction Nina joined the Board as part of the Independent Director Succession Plan.
This is her induction story Tailored The induction programme was tailored to Nina.
Nina holds and has held non-executive positions in other UK listed entities.
Therefore, the induction was focused on the Companys performance, structure, business operations, financial and board governance processes.
Strategy Nina met with the Chairman and Chief Executive in order to understand the structure and strategic direction of the Group.
Finance Prior to joining the Board Nina discussed the financial performance and procedures of the Company with the Chief Financial Officer.
Additionally, she met with the senior statutory auditor.
Briefing In order for a potential director to fully understand the duties and responsibilities that are being undertaken, all directors receive an induction briefing in advance of a formal proposal being made to the Board.
Ninas briefing was undertaken by the Company Secretary prior to joining the Board.
All briefing papers were made available in advance and requests for additional information were met immediately afterwards.
Structure The induction briefing was structured into four key areas: Board governance and procedures Director duties and the Listing Rules The internal Board Governance Procedures for the The legal framework of the UK is substantially different operation of the Board, Committees and administration of from that of the US.
Nina currently holds a non-executive Directors were explained, including formalities regarding position in another UK listed entity, and therefore a the appointment process, announcements and refresher of the concepts around duties of directors and associated documentation.
the nature of the legal entity legislation and regulation in the UK were explained.
Company overview Site visits A detailed overview of the Company was presented Nina developed a near-term plan to visit the major facilities to Nina covering matters such as the business and in addition to the Board calendar.
organisational structure, operational areas, activities, internal risk processes and shareholdings.
Additionally, an explanation of the markets in which the Company operates was also given, with a particular focus on those more established such as the US and MENA regions.
