Shareholder information 2017 financial calendar 6 April 2016 final dividend ex-dividend date 7 April 2016 final dividend record date 19 May Annual General Meeting 25 May 2016 final dividend paid to shareholders 17 August 2017 interim results and interim dividend announced 24 August 2017 interim dividend ex-dividend date 25 August 2017 interim dividend record date 22 September 2017 interim dividend paid to shareholders Provisional dates.
Shareholding enquiries Enquiries or information concerning existing shareholdings should be directed to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars either: in writing to Shareholder Services, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: by telephone from within the UK on 0871 664 0300: by telephone from outside the UK on 44 371 664 0300: or through the website www.
Dividend payments Currency The Company declares dividends in US Dollars.
Unless you have elected otherwise, you will receive your dividend in US Dollars.
Shareholders can opt to receive the dividend in Pounds Sterling or Jordanian Dinar.
The Registrar retains records of the dividend currency for each shareholder and only changes them at the shareholders request.
If you wish to change the currency in which you receive your dividend please contact the Registrars.
Dividend payments Bank Transfer Shareholders who currently receive their dividend by cheque can request a dividend mandate form from the Registrar and have their dividend paid direct into their bank account on the same day as the dividend is paid.
The tax voucher is sent direct to the shareholders registered address.
Dividend payments International Payment System If you are an overseas shareholder the Registrar is now able to pay dividends in several foreign currencies for an administrative charge of 5.00, which is deducted from the payment.
Contact the Registrar for further information.
Website Press releases, the share price and other information on the Group are available on the Companys website www.
Share listings London Stock Exchange The Companys Ordinary Shares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
They are listed under EPIC HIK, SEDOL B0LCW08 GB and ISIN GB00B0LCW083.
Further information on this market, its trading systems and current trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC shares can be found on the London Stock Exchange website www.
Global Depository Receipts The Company also has listed Global Depository Receipts GDRs on the Nasdaq Dubai.
They are listed under EPIC HIK and ISIN US4312882081.
Further information on the Nasdaq Dubai, its trading systems and current trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC GDRs can be found on the website www.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 210 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements American depository receipts ADRs Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC has an ADR programme for which BNY Mellon acts as Depositary.
One ADR equates to 2 Hikma Ordinary Shares.
ADRs are traded as a Level 1 OTC programme under the symbol HKMPY.
Enquiries should be made to: BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 358516 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516 Tel: 1 201 680 6825 Tel: 1 888 BNY ADRS toll-free within the US E-mail: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com Shareholder fraud The Financial Conduct Authority has issued a number of warnings to shareholders regarding boiler room scams.
Over the last year many companies have become aware that shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are advised to be very cautious of unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Obtain the correct name of the person and organisations: Check they are authorised by the FCA by looking the firm up on www.
uk register: Report the matter to the FCA either by calling 0800 111 6768 or visit www.
uk consumers scams: If the caller persists, hang up.
Details of the share dealing facilities sponsored by the Company are included in Company mailings and are on the Company website.
The Companys website is www.
com and the registered office is 13 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HW.
