Go Gov vernance R ernance Report eport 88 88 St Stat atemen ement of Dir t of Direc ectors R tors Responsibilities esponsibilities In respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, applicable law and regulations.
Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in the corporate and financial information included on the Companys accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Financial Report Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of the Financial statements, prepared in accordance with the their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation consistently: taken as a whole: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development prudent: and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: uncertainties that they face.
for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and Company Financial Statements: and performance, business model and strategy.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis By order of the Board unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys Alex Henderson transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Company Secretary the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 8 March 2017 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
com | Stock Code HILS 89 89 89 89 89 FF in in an an cc ia ia l l SS tt a a tt em em en en tt ss Financial Statements 90 Independent Auditors Report 92 Group Financial Statements 137 Company Financial Statements 150 Five Year Summary Image Above - Signatures installation of the Junction Master VAS Vehicle Activated Sign on the A4123 New Birmingham Road.
This sign, activated by a vehicle travelling at 40 mph, displays Slow Down 40 and Slow Down Staggered Junction.
See further information at hsholdings.
