Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements Contingent consideration arising from West-ward Columbus Accounts receivable and bad debts 2.
Significant accounting policies continued acquisition represent contractual liabilities to make payments to Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating ii Available for sale financial assets Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income third parties in the form of milestone payments that are units where they arise.
Credit limits are set as deemed appropriate and accumulated in equity are reclassified to the consolidated Listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the Group that dependent on the achievement of certain US FDA approval for the customer, based on a number of qualitative and income statement in the periods when the hedged item is are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are milestones: and royalty payments based on future sales of quantitative factors related to the credit worthiness of a particular recognised in the consolidated income statement, in the same stated at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair certain products that are currently under development.
The Group is exposed to a variety of customers ranging line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
value are recognised in other comprehensive income, with the details can be seen in note 43. from government-backed agencies and large private wholesalers exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the Financial liabilities are revalued at the end of each reporting period to privately owned pharmacies, and the underlying local economic effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, to represent the value of expected future cash outflows and the risks vary across the Group.
Typical credit terms in the US range monetary assets, which are recognised directly in the consolidated terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge difference is presented as finance cost income.
These financial from 30-90 days, in Europe 30-120 days, and in MENA 180-360 income statement.
Where the investment is disposed of or is accounting.
Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive liabilities are currently booked under other current and non-current days.
Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the and insurance.
The Groups investments in consolidated income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no ii Other financial liabilities unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market and the fair The Group estimates, based on its historical experience, the level of longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially value of which cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, less debts that it believes will not be collected.
Such estimates are made recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
a provision for any impairment loss, which is taken to the when collection of the full amount of the debt is no longer consolidated income statement.
These estimates are based on a number of factors Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation including specific customer issues and industry, economic and cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense iii Loans and receivables legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that political conditions.
Bad debts are written-off when identified.
recognised on an effective yield basis.
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations The effective interest method is a method of calculating the Goodwill and intangible assets determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are The critical areas of judgment in relation to the initial recognition obligation.
expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, and impairment tests of goodwill and intangible assets are rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through Equity instruments less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the as follows: the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the The revenue forecasts including market size, estimated shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
recognition of interest would be immaterial.
expected market share, number of competitors and net selling The effective interest method is a method of calculating the Derivative financial instruments prices.
Critical accounting judgements and key amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the Groups The raw and packaging materials costs.
income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
The principal sources of estimation uncertainty The economic useful lives of the product-related intangibles rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including derivative instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which The allocation of sales, marketing, R&D and other operating all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the and foreign exchange forward and option contracts.
The Group are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make costs to the individual product-related intangibles.
effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying discounts through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, speculative purposes.
The contributory asset charges on working capital, fixed assets amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on and workforce.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based Hedge accounting initial recognition.
on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be The discount rate and specific risk premiums used to determine The Group designates certain hedging instruments, in respect of relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
net present values and the terminal growth rate for goodwill.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt interest rate and foreign currency risk, as cash flow hedges.
Hedges instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an Also, for pipeline products the launch date and probability of a as cash flow hedges.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in successful product approval are also critical judgements.
Financial liabilities the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects Financial liabilities are classified in two categories: financial liabilities At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents Contingent Liabilities and receivables related only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
The classification depends the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged if the revision affects both current and future periods.
to acquisitions on the nature and purpose of the financial liabilities and is item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for The Group entered contractual liabilities in the form of milestone determined at the time of initial recognition.
Furthermore, at the The Groups Directors believe that the following accounting and royalty payments in addition to contingent receivables see inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group tests policies that involve Directors judgements and estimates are the note 43, where the critical areas of judgment to those liabilities i Financial liabilities at FVTPL whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting most critical to understanding and evaluating the Groups and receivables are the probability assigned to reaching the changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
The Group currently has two financial liabilities at FVTPL as below: financial results.
success-based milestones and the managements estimate of Note 31 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative Co-development and earn out payment agreements with future sales.
Revenue recognition instruments used for hedging purposes.
third parties where the Group earns milestone payments The Groups revenue recognition policies require Directors to make reflecting the achievement of R&D and commercialisation a number of estimates, with the most significant relating to Cash flow hedge milestones.
Those payments are recognised as financial chargebacks, product returns, rebates and price adjustments note The effective portion of changes in the fair value of a derivative liabilities once received.
2 which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
If the that is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge is recognised ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, revenue in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be made.
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated The deferred revenue in respect of this is included in other current income statement.
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Annual Report 2016 161 152 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2016 153 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group benefits from a tax exemption in Jordan arising partly 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key from the WTO approved Export Exemption that will be in force up sources of estimation uncertainty continued until 31 December 2018.
Hikma does not believe that the impact of the future withdrawal of this exemption will materially impact Taxation the Groups tax rate in light of the alternative options available In common with most international organisations, the Group may under existing Jordans domestic rules.
be subject to audit from revenue authorities from time to time.
Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a The Group makes substantial sales in the US market of products reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made, owned by a UK group company which also arranges for the management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
These product development and manufacture, both in the US and in estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each other territories in which the Group operates.
Whilst a reduction in dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgemental the US federal tax rate would beneficially impact the Groups and could change substantially over time as new facts emerge and effective tax rate, other aspects of potential US tax reforms that each dispute progresses.
Hikma continues to invest in its financial may be adopted, such as border adjustability and denial of interest systems to ensure the quality of the Groups financial data which deductions, could have a significant negative impact on the reduces the risk of an adverse revenue authority audit Groups effective tax rate.
Furthermore, Hikma continues to believe that it has made Continuing with the impact of changes in tax rules in the territories adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open in which we operate, the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS assessments and audits.
Where open issues exist, the ultimate initiative of the OECD is likely to result in increased taxation as the liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and actions from the BEPS initiative are adopted by fiscal authorities.
is dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant The Group is reviewing the impact of such changes as they tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
become clear and taking any action necessary to help mitigate any adverse consequences to the extent reasonably possible.
In addition to tax audits, the Group faces other potential tax risks that could affect the sustainability of the Groups effective tax rate.
As part of a reorganisation following West-Ward Columbus The main risks are transfer pricing, the withdrawal of tax acquisition, certain assets and liabilities were transferred intraexemptions, legislative interpretations or changes.
Specifically, at group with external valuations obtained.
If these valuations are this time there is uncertainty regarding potential future US tax successfully challenged by relevant tax authorities, it could reforms.
No reliable estimate of the potential impact of these adversely impact the tax recorded on the reorganisation.
proposals can be made at this time.
Other risks the Group faces As at the balance sheet date, the Group held an aggregate include a material change to the statutory tax rates, from the provision in the sum of $64 million in respect of liabilities likely to OECDs base erosion and profit shifting initiatives and adjustments arise from the above risks.
Hikma considers up to $21 million could arising out of a difference in interpretation of tax legislation.
Hikma be released in 2017 due to statute of limitations but this could be regularly takes professional advice to ensure the risks mentioned offset by new provisions needed in 2017. above are appropriately analysed and managed with any ultimate potential liability being adequately provided.
Contingent liabilities The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products The transfer pricing risk can arise from a difference in view over the and medical devices is highly regulated and the operations of pricing of cross-border, inter-company product sales and services market participants, such as Hikma, are closely supervised by and of sales of assets.
The standard by which most authorities, and regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the the Group, assess the transfer price is whether it is set at arms FDA and the US Department of Justice.
As a result, the Group is length.
An upward adjustment by the tax authority of one territory subject to certain investigations by governmental agencies, as well will not necessary result in the downward adjustment by the other as other various legal proceedings considered typical to its business territory, leading to a potentially increased tax cost through a relating to employment, product liability and commercial disputes.
mismatch of tax deductions and taxable income, as well as a potential increase arising out of a rate arbitrage.
The Group has For current matters see note 37. considered the risk in detail and has provided for potential tax adjustments so does not believe that any adjustment will materially impact the rate going forward.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 162 154 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc
