Directors meet with major shareholders and potential investors Access trading graphs.
following interim and final results, and at other times if requested.
Add additional shareholdings to your portfolio.
Presentations for analysts are also held on the day of these Share dealing announcements and we keep in regular contact with analysts Share dealing services are available through Computershare Investor throughout the year.
com sharedealingcentre Corporate information for internet share dealing and for telephone dealing ring The Annual and Interim Reports are the main forms of 0370 703 0084. communication with our shareholders.
We have updated our website Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Latest date for election is to supplement these reports with additional information.
The 12 June 2017 website address is www.
com and includes share price The Company offers shareholders the facility to reinvest their cash information, investor relations information and contact details.
dividends to buy more shares in the Company.
Annual General Meeting AGM The service allows you to increase your shareholding in an easy The AGM will be held on Thursday 11 May 2017 at 11.00 a. m. at and convenient way.
The Village Hotel, The Green Business Park, Shirley, Solihull, B90 4GW.
Online application process enables you to participate easily and Full details are contained within the Notice of AGM.
A proxy card is securely: www.
also enclosed with this statement for voting.
Alternatively you can vote electronically as explained below.
- Click on Register to sign up to the Investor Centre.
This will allow you to carry out a number of share related transactions Electronic proxy voting online, including opting for the DRIP.
To lodge your proxy vote via the internet, log on to - You will be required to fill in your SRN and your postcode, www.
You will need the Control number, together with your email address.
You will also be asked to Shareholder Reference number SRN and PIN number printed on select a user name ID and password of your choice.
your Form of Proxy where you will find the full instructions.
- Once registered select Dividend Plans from the left hand Shareholding online menu and amend your current cash dividend instruction, Computershare Investor Centre gives access to view your holdings confirming acceptance of the DRIP terms and conditions.
To register click on Investor Centre on the Computershare New shares will be purchased as soon as possible on or after the home page www.
com and follow the instructions.
You will be able to: Shareholder helpline number View all your holding details for companies registered with There is a helpline for shareholders who have enquiries about their Computershare.
The dedicated helpline number is 0370 707 1058.
View the market value of your portfolio.
Update your contact address and personal details online.
