Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Exceptional items and other adjustments Exceptional items and other adjustments are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement to assist in the understanding of the Groups core performance.
2016 2015 Exceptional items $m $m Acquisition, integration and other costs 41 14 Gain from sale of assets, net 18 6 Inventory related adjustments 27 Release of contingent liability 4 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 10 Impairment of product related intangible assets 6 Write-down of products related intangible assets 18 Severance costs 6 Proceeds from legal claims 2 Exceptional items included in operating profit 80 12 Impairment of investment in associates 7 Exceptional items included in profit 80 19 Other adjustments Intangible amortisation other than software 37 16 Remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial liability and asset, net 32 2 Exceptional items and other adjustments 149 37 Exceptional items: Acquisition, integration and other related costs are incurred in relation to the acquisition of West-Ward Columbus which was completed on 29 February 2016.
Acquisition related expenses are included in the unallocated corporate expenses, while integration and other expenses are included in the general and administrative expense and cost of sales respectively.
Acquisition related expenses mainly comprise third party consulting services, legal and professional fees, other costs represent severance and retention payments paid.
Gain from sale of assets relates to the divestiture of certain products, and is included in other operating income.
Inventory related adjustments reflect the amortisation of the fair value uplift of the inventory acquired as part of West-Ward Columbus acquisition, and are included in cost of sales.
Release of contingent liability is due to not achieving certain performance-related milestones in respect of a previous acquisition, and is included in other operating income.
Impairment loss of property, plant and equipment relates to the write-off of machinery and equipment as a result of previous acquisition, and is included in other operating expenses.
Impairment of product related intangible assets has been included in the research and development expenses.
Write-down of product related intangible assets relates to the write-down of certain R&D elements associated with the co-development agreements entered into with third parties since 2011 and has been included in the research and development expenses.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 166 158 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc
