Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 2016 2015 1.
Adoption of new and revised standards Basis of preparation Note $m $m The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLCs consolidated financial statements are Net cash from operating activities 36 293 366 been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any prepared in accordance with: significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial i EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Investing activities statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Purchases of property, plant and equipment 122 82 and arrangements.
Standards Interpretations Committee and those parts of the Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 31 IFRS 11 Amendments Accounting for Acquisitions of Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies using IFRS.
Purchase of intangible assets 68 55 Interests in Joint Operations Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 24 ii International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the Amendments IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Investment in financial and other non-current assets 11 IAS 19 Amendments Defined Benefit Plans: Employees Investment in available for sale investments 6 1 Contributions The financial statements have been prepared under the historical Investments designated at fair value 20 cost convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods Acquisition of business undertakings net of cash acquired 515 Amendments of Depreciation and Amortisation financial assets and liabilities.
Finance income 2 3 IAS 27 Amendments Equity Method in Separate Financial The Groups previously published financial statements were also Statements Acquisition related amounts held in escrow account 38 prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB and also in IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets Net cash used in investing activities 695 162 accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union.
Amendments between an Investor and it Associate Financing activities or Joint venture The presentational and functional currency of Hikma Decrease increase in collateralised and restricted cash 4 6 IAS 1 Amendments Disclosure Initiative Pharmaceuticals PLC is the US dollar as the majority of the Proceeds from issue of long-term financial debts 471 529 Companys business is conducted in US dollars.
Annual improvements Repayment of long-term financial debts 326 91 2010-2012 Going concern Proceeds from short-term borrowings 345 325 Annual improvements The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial Repayment of short-term borrowings 337 595 2012-2014 statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Dividends paid 77 64 The following Standards and Interpretations have not been applied Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries 1 2 in these financial statements because while in issue, are not yet existence and therefore considered the going concern basis as Interest paid 54 49 effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : appropriate.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis Proceeds from issue of new shares 1 of accounting in preparing the financial statements see page 61.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Proceeds from co-development and earnout payment agreement, net 2 17 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Net cash generated by financing activities 19 77 Basis of consolidation Customers The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 383 281 IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS Investment Entities: Applying the Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC the Company and entities controlled Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 553 280 28 Amendments Consolidation Exemption by the Company together the Group.
Foreign exchange translation movements 15 8 IFRS 16 Leases Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 155 553 The consolidated financial statements include: IAS 12 Amendments Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses The assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the Company and its subsidiaries, IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosure of financial instruments, IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue The Groups share of the results and net assets of associates recognition and related disclosure, and IFRS 16 will impact leased and joint ventures assets and financial liabilities and related disclosures.
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to Until a detailed review is completed: the Directors do not find it 31 December each year.
practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the effects of the Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant above listed IFRS on the financials statements of the Group in activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through future periods.
control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for as subsidiaries.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint 2.
Significant accounting policies control over, and rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are General Information accounted for as joint ventures.
Where the Group has the ability to Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is a company incorporated in the exercise significant influence over entities, they are accounted for United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the as associates.
registered office is given on page 212.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Annual Report 2016 153 144 Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2016 145
