Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes to financial statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Own shares reserve Shares of the parent Company that are purchased by the HomeServe plc Employee Benefit Trust are held at cost and shown as a deduction in equity.
Cost comprises consideration paid, including directly attributable costs.
The shares are held to satisfy obligations under the Groups equity settled share based payment schemes.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence and which the Directors consider should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Revenue recognition An appropriate proportion of revenue, sufficient to cover future costs and margin of handling claims is deferred to future periods when the Group has obligations extending to future periods.
As a result, judgement is required in assessing the extent and associated costs of fulfilling those future obligations.
The Group uses historical experience of claims volumes and forecast activity levels in determining the appropriate amount of revenue to recognise in the current period and how much to defer to future periods.
An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to materially affect the economic benefits which will flow to the Group such as policy cancellations.
To the extent that economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, the value of that revenue is not recognised.
The Group uses historical experience in determining the appropriate amount of revenue to recognise.
