Shareholder information Company website Currency option and dividend mandate Hochschild Mining plc Interim and Annual Reports and results Shareholders wishing to receive their dividend in US dollars should announcements are available via the internet on our website at contact the Companys registrars to request a currency election form.
Shareholders can also access the latest This form should be completed and returned to the registrars by information about the Company and press announcements as they 28 April 2017 in respect of the 2016 final dividend.
are released, together with details of future events and how to obtain The Companys registrars can also arrange for the dividend to be paid further information.
directly into a shareholders UK bank account.
To take advantage of this facility in respect of the 2016 final dividend, a dividend mandate form, Registrars also available from the Companys registrars, should be completed and The Registrars can be contacted as follows for information about returned to the registrars by 28 April 2017.
This arrangement is only the AGM, shareholdings, and dividends and to report changes in available in respect of dividends paid in UK pounds sterling.
personal details: Shareholders who have already completed one or both of these forms need take no further action.
By post Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Financial Calendar Kent BR3 4TU.
Dividend dates 2017 Ex-dividend date 20 April By telephone Record date 21 April If calling from the UK: 0371 664 0300 Calls charged at the Deadline for return of currency election forms 28 April standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Lines are open 8.30am-5.30pm Mon to Fri. Payment date 17 May If calling from overseas: 44 371 664 0300 Calls charged at the 17 Cavendish Square applicable international rate.
London W1G 0PH United Kingdom 142 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Forward looking statements The constituent parts of this Annual Report, including those that make up the Directors Report, contain certain forward-looking statement, including such statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In particular, such forward looking statements may relate to matters such as the business, strategy, investments, production, major projects and their contribution to expected production and other plans of Hochschild Mining plc and its current goals, assumptions and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements typically containing words such as intends, expects, anticipates, targets, plans, estimates and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Actual results, performance or achievements of Hochschild Mining plc may be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to differences between the actual results, performance or achievements of Hochschild Mining plc and current expectations include, but are not limited to, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, competitive conditions, technological developments, exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions.
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report.
Except as required by the Listing Rules and applicable law, Hochschild Mining plc does not undertake any obligation to update or change any forward looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this announcement.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Printed on iprint, a paper independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
The pulp used is elemental chlorine free ECF.
Printed at Pureprint Group, registered to EMAS, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral HOCHSCHILD MINING PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 HOCHSCHILD MINING PLC Tel: 44 0 203 709 3260 17 Cavendish Square Fax: 44 0 203 709 3261 London W1G 0PH info@hocplc.
