Argos has become a materially improved business with a strong complement of new strategic digital capabilities.
There is more work to do, but many of the building blocks are now in place.
John Walden Chief Executive our online reporting suite Were always looking to make life easy.
All our corporate Corporate website reports are available online, which helps us to minimise our Find our latest news, reports and images quickly environmental impact and save cost.
The websites below contain and easily, along with information about our a wealth of information about Home Retail Group and our latest corporate responsibility activities.
corporate website is updated throughout the year, so this, www.
com especially, is a good way of keeping up to date.
Annual report Download a full PDF version of this annual report at: www.
com investor-centre  Corporate responsibility Youll find a summary of our corporate responsibility activities on pages 20 and 21 of this report, but youll find much more information and be able to download Design Print Paper a summary PDF version at: mslgroup.
com Printed by CPI Colour This has been printed on Cocoon Offset paper.
The paper has been awarded the NAPM 100% Recycled Mark.
Produced at a mill that is www.
com cr Board photography certified with the ISO14001 environmental management standard.
Iain Crockart FSC Recycled Product supporting responsible use of forest If youre a shareholder, you can receive information James Johnson resources.
The fibre source is 100% fide inked post consumer waste.
more quickly and help us save paper and money by Ben Normington The pulp is bleached using a totally chlorine free TCF process and Lucy Cheveralls the inks used are all vegetable oil based.
registering for all future shareholder communications online at www.
indd 4-6 20 05 2016 17:56 Home ReTAIL GRoUP PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Visit our 2016 annual report and corporate responsibility report at www.
com Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Home ReTAIL GRoUP PLC Avebury 489499 Avebury Boulevard Milton Keynes MK9 2NW Tel: 0845 603 6677 www.
