Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 69 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 1. general inFOrmatiOn Home Retail Group plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of Home Retail Group the Group, is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is a home and general merchandise retailer.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 April 2016.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 27 February 2016 prior financial year represents the 52 weeks to 28 February 2015.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the European Union.
They also comply with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
BaSiS OF PreParatiOn The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historic cost basis modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share-based payments and post-employment benefits.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in note 3.
Unless otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented.
On 27 February 2016 the Group sold 100% of the Homebase business to Wesfarmers Limited.
As a result, Homebase has met the recognition criteria of a discontinued operation under IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations and is therefore presented as such throughout this report.
In order to comply with this presentation, FY15 income statement disclosures have been re-presented separating continuing and discontinued operations.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate parent company Home Retail Group plc, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in associates.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and financing policies are controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control was transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Home Retail Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of business acquisitions is the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the acquirer.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised if they meet the definition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
changes in accounting standards There are no new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations which are effective for the first time during the year ended 27 February 2016 that have a material impact on the Group.
At the balance sheet date there are a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards in issue but not yet effective, including IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which are both effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 16 Leases was published during the year and will come into effect on periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group has not early-adopted any of these new standards or amendments to existing standards and the Group will assess their full impact in due course.
There are no other new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
critical accounting estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and future periods where appropriate.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 69 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 70 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 2.
BaSiS OF PreParatiOn CONTINUED Impairment of goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any impairment loss on an annual basis, based on the recoverable amount, being the higher of the CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The calculations of recoverable amounts require the use of estimates as disclosed in note 15.
Impairment of assets Assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
In the case of store assets, a CGU may represent a single store or a group of stores.
Assets or CGUs are written down to their recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the expected cash flows from the asset at an appropriate discount rate for the risks associated with that asset.
This includes the expected future cash flows based on managements assumptions and estimates of the future performance of the asset and an appropriate discount rate.
Differences between expectations and the actual cash flows will result in differences in the level of impairment required.
The calculations of impairment charges are disclosed in notes 16 and 17.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if there has been a significant change in the underlying assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount, however not to an amount higher than the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of amortisation or depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised in prior years.
Impairment of trade receivables A trade receivable is impaired when there is objective evidence that events since the receivable was established have affected the expected cash flows from the receivable.
The Groups impairment provision against trade receivables is established on a portfolio basis, taking into account the level of arrears, past loss experience and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The future credit quality of the trade receivable portfolio is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from the reported impairment provision against trade receivables.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, notably the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
Post-employment benefits The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The main assumption used in determining the defined benefit obligations and net pension costs is the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact the amounts disclosed in the Groups balance sheet and income statement.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant year-ends and additional information is disclosed in note 25.
Provisions Provisions have been estimated for property, insurance, restructuring, customer redress principally in respect of Payment Protection Insurance and other liabilities.
These provisions represent the best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date, the actual liability being dependent on future events such as trading conditions at a particular store, including expected costs or income associated with store closures, the incidence of insurance claims against the Group or the anticipated costs of related customer contact and redress.
Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability arises, with any difference accounted for in the period in which the revision is made.
The calculations of the provisions and additional information are disclosed in note 24.
Inventory provisions Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to customers in the future as disclosed in note 20.
Cost includes the impact of discounts received from suppliers which is directly linked to the purchase of stock.
Net realisable value takes into account slow moving, obsolete and defective inventory.
Any difference between the expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted for in the period in which the sale is made.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 70 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 71 3.
SUmmarY OF PrinciPal accOUnting POlicieS revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, discounts and expected returns.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue on goods to be delivered is recognised when the customer receives delivery of the goods.
The Group operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods being sold at a discount to the standard retail price.
Commissions receivable on the sale of services for which the Group acts as agent are included within revenue.
Interest income Interest income on customer store card accounts is recognised as revenue using the effective interest method.
commercial income Commercial income is recognised such that income which relates to product costs is recognised within cost of sales and income related to activities where the costs are recognised within net operating expenses, such as catalogue and other advertising costs, are recognised within net operating expenses.
Commercial income is recognised based on the expected entitlement that has been earned up to the balance sheet date.
The Group only recognises commercial income where there is documented evidence of an agreement with a supplier.
The types of commercial income recognised by the Group are: type of commercial income description accounting policy Marketing and advertising income Examples include contributions to Income which is directly linked to the cost of producing the catalogue is the cost of the catalogue, funding recognised once agreed with the supplier and when the catalogue is made for other advertising and shortavailable to the Group which is the point at which the catalogue costs are term product promotions.
Other marketing and advertising income is recognised once agreed with a supplier and over the period as set out in the specific supplier agreement.
Volume-based rebates Income earned by achieving specific Income is recognised through the year based on forecasts for expected volume targets agreed with the sales or purchase volumes, informed by current performance, trends, and supplier for specific products.
the terms of the supplier agreement.
Income is invoiced throughout the year in accordance with the specific supplier terms.
The majority of these arrangements run for one calendar year.
Commercial income related to inventory held on the balance sheet is deferred within inventory as a cost price reduction.
Commercial income earned but not collected at the balance sheet date is recognised within trade and other receivables.
There are no significant amounts of collected and deferred commercial income within trade and other payables at the 27 February 2016 balance sheet date.
There are certain other types of funding which are collected from suppliers, for example discounts received on settlement of creditor balances and cost recoveries from suppliers for product quality issues which have been excluded from commercial income disclosure principally because they are not judgemental.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial information is presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in either equity or the income statement as appropriate.
Group companies The results and financial position of overseas Home Retail Group entities are translated into sterling as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 71 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 72 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 3.
SUmmarY OF PrinciPal accOUnting POlicieS CONTINUED On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors and Group Executive Board.
goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested at least annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash flow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the specific risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are separable and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of other intangible assets with finite useful economic lives is amortised over that period.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, they are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Brands Acquired brands have a finite useful life and are initially recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated to spread the cost of the brands over their estimated useful lives of 10 years on a straight-line basis.
This amortisation method reflects the pattern in which the assets future economic benefits are expected to be consumed.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to ten years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are held at cost, being the purchase price and other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of the asset or CGU to which the asset belongs exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash flow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the specific risks inherent within the Groups businesses.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: leasehold premises are depreciated over the period of the lease: plant and equipment are depreciated over 2 to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset: land is not depreciated: and assets under the course of construction are not depreciated.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 72 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 73 non-current assets classified as held for sale Where the carrying value of a non-current asset is expected to be principally recovered through its sale, the asset is classified as held for sale if it also meets the following: The asset is available for sale in its current condition: The sale is highly probable: and The sale is expected to occur within one year.
Once classified as held for sale, the asset is held at the lower of its carrying value and the fair value less cost to sell and is no longer depreciated.
discontinued operations Operations are classified as discontinued when they are either disposed of or are part of a single coordinated plan to dispose, and represent a major line of business or geographical area of operation.
trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the balance sheet, with the cost of unrecoverable trade receivables recognised in the income statement immediately.
inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost base in use within the Group are general retail goods valued on a standard cost basis which approximates to actual cost.
Commercial income received in respect of specific inventory is treated as a reduction in the cost of this inventory.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventory include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to their purchase.
cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost.
corporation tax Corporation tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Corporation tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax expense is recognised in the consolidated income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in the consolidated statement of changes in equity, in which case it is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in the consolidated statement of changes in equity, respectively.
deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 73 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 74 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 3.
SUmmarY OF PrinciPal accOUnting POlicieS CONTINUED Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Provisions are made for property provisions, including onerous lease contracts for stores that have closed or where a decision to close has been announced, and for those stores where the projected future trading income is insufficient to cover the lower of exit cost or cost of continuing to trade the store.
Provisions for other costs and income on store closures are recognised where such an outflow or inflow is probable.
Provisions are made for Financial Services to cover claims made by customers, including estimated redress payments, and specific costs incurred in remediation.
Provisions are also made for legal claims, the estimated cost of insurance claims incurred by the Group but not settled at the balance sheet date, restructuring costs and other liabilities.
insurance The Group self-insures some risks and the liabilities associated with these risks are retained within the Group.
The Group accounts for all insurance costs as part of operating costs in these financial statements.
Insurance premiums in respect of insurance placed with third parties are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the life of the lease.
Post-employment benefits The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit obligations are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected-unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
For defined contribution pension plans the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
catalogue costs Costs incurred during the production of the Groups catalogues are deferred on the balance sheet net of any associated advertising revenue and marketing support until the catalogue is made available to the Group, at which point the net deferred cost is charged to the income statement.
dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year-end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid.
Financial instruments The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Other financial assets Other financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
Other financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The movements in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income until the financial asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 74 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 75 accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates its derivatives as cash flow hedges.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Cash flow hedges The cash flow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would be recognised immediately in the income statement.
The hedged cash flow is expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement via inventory carrying value as applicable.
Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in organised active financial markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no quoted market price is determined by a variety of methods incorporating assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares granted is recognised as an expense after taking into account the best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revisits the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimate.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo models, or closing market price that is most appropriate to the award.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revisited for actual performance.
non-gaaP financial information Home Retail Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist the understanding of the performance of the business.
The measures are not defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but Home Retail Group has included them as it considers them to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
The following are the key non-GAAP measures identified by Home Retail Group: Exceptional items Items which are both non-recurring and material in either size or nature are presented as exceptional items within their relevant income statement line.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better indication of underlying performance of the Group.
Examples of items which may be recorded as exceptional items are restructuring costs and the profits and or losses on the disposal of businesses.
Benchmark measures The Group uses the following terms as measures which are not formally recognised under IFRS: Benchmark operating profit is defined as operating profit from all operations both continuing and discontinued before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, post-employment benefit scheme administration costs, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases and costs or income associated with store closures and exceptional items.
Benchmark profit before tax benchmark PBT is defined as profit from all operations both continuing and discontinued before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, post-employment benefit scheme administration costs, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases and costs or income associated with store closures, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements, financing impact on post-employment benefit obligations, the discount unwind on non-benchmark items and taxation.
Basic benchmark earnings per share benchmark EPS is defined as benchmark PBT less taxation attributable to benchmark PBT, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue excluding shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts net of vested but unexercised share awards.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 75 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 76 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 3.
SUmmarY OF PrinciPal accOUnting POlicieS CONTINUED These measures are considered useful in that they provide investors with an alternative means to evaluate the underlying performance of the Groups operations.
Total net debt The Group uses the term total net debt which is considered useful in that it highlights the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other financial institutions together with debt-like liabilities, notably operating leases.
Financial riSK management Financial risk factors There are a number of financial risks and uncertainties which could impact the performance of the Group, being market risk foreign exchange and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group operates a structured risk management process which identifies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties.
Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance, and the Groups mitigating activities, are set out in the principal risks and uncertainties section of the review of the business on pages 22 and 23.
The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
Policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors.
Market risk foreign exchange risk The Group is subject to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
To manage the foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with external banks.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts.
The key objective of the Groups foreign exchange transaction exposure management is to minimise potential volatility in profits which could arise as a result of exchange rate fluctuations whilst maintaining an appropriate relative position versus the Groups retail peers.
To achieve the above objectives, the Group will initially seek to hedge up to 90% of any foreign exchange transaction risks expected to arise as a result of uncertain, but probable, foreign currency cash flows up to 14 months forward.
This subsequently increases to 100% as cash flows become certain.
Each subsidiary designates contracts as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges, as appropriate.
External foreign exchange contracts are designated as hedges of foreign exchange risk on specific assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis.
The cash flow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposure of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash flows are expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement or inventory carrying value as applicable.
The Group has foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is not hedged.
If on 27 February 2016, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 3% 2015: approximately 3%, weaker stronger against the US dollar, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would have been 0.2m lower higher 2015: 0.3m lower higher mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains arising on retranslation of US dollar denominated balances in subsidiary companies with a sterling functional currency.
Equity would have been 12.9m higher lower 2015: 10.3m higher lower, arising mainly from the revaluation of US dollar forward currency contracts.
If on 27 February 2016, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 4% 2015: approximately 4%, weaker stronger against the euro, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would have been 0.3m lower higher 2015: 0.4m lower higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains on retranslation of sterling denominated cash balances in subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Equity would have been 1.2m lower higher 2015: 1.0m lower higher, arising mainly from the revaluation of euro forward currency contracts net of foreign exchange gains or losses on retranslation of euro-denominated net assets held by subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Market risk cash flow and fair value interest rate risk Whilst the Groups Financial Services business has gross instalment receivable balances Financial Services loan book on fixed interest rates and floating rates, the Groups income and operating cash flows are still considered to be substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group currently holds a net cash position and has undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from the variance in market rate when deposits are made.
This risk is managed by combining overnight deposits with term deposits.
The principal objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage the trade-off between obtaining the most beneficial effective rates of interest whilst minimising the impact of interest rate volatility on profits before tax.
The Group had no borrowings at any point during the year.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 76 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 77 Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk within its Financial Services loan book.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of financial services products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Customers are credit scored using data from an external credit agency and a credit risk provision is held which is based on historic default experience note 21.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash, via major debit and credit cards or via in-house or third party operated financial products.
The Groups exposure to credit risk with regard to treasury transactions is managed by dealing only with major banks and financial institutions.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored on a regular basis.
Foreign exchange counterparty limits are set for each organisation on a scale based on credit rating and maturity period.
The Groups cash management policy, which was updated and approved by the Board of Directors during the year, requires: for a term deposit of up to 50m for up to 3 months a bank must have a minimum long-term rating of Aor better: for an additional 3 month term deposit of up to 50m a bank must have a minimum long-term rating of A, or a minimum long-term rating of A if the UK Government holds a minimum shareholding of 25%: for a term deposit of up to 50m for a period of up to 12 months, a bank must have a minimum long-term rating of A, or a minimum long-term rating of A if the UK Government holds a minimum shareholding of 25%: for instant access on demand accounts of up to 75m a bank must have a minimum short-term rating of B: for instant access on demand accounts of up to 150m a bank must have a minimum short-term rating of A-1: and for a deposit of up to 150m in a money market fund, the fund must have a long-term rating of AAA.
Each deposit made by the Group during the year was compliant with the policy that was effective at the date the deposit was made.
Where a term deposit has been made and the counterparty ratings have subsequently reduced, each relevant position has been reviewed and any decision to maintain a position until the normal maturity date has been approved by the Board of Directors.
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings as follows: cash and term deposits cash and Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term long-term rating at long-term rating at cash deposits transaction date 27 February 2016 m A A 519.4 AA- 42.3 BBBBBB- 61.2 622.9 Cash and Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term cash long-term rating at long-term rating at deposits transaction date 28 February 2015 m AAA AAA 207.8 A A 50.0 AA- 25.4 BB BB 26.1 309.3 marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts 2016 2015 Bank and institution rating at year-end m m AA- 7.9 - A 22.2 19.0 A- 9.4 6.2 BBB 11.1 - BBB- 1.9 BB 0.8 1.9 49.5 27.1 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 77 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 78 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 4.
Financial riSK management CONTINUED Liquidity risk Home Retail Group manages its cash and committed borrowing facilities to maintain liquidity and funding flexibility.
Liquidity is achieved through arranging funding ahead of requirements and maintaining sufficient undrawn committed facilities to meet short-term needs, and facilities are in place for this purpose.
At 27 February 2016, the Group had an undrawn committed borrowing facility available of 250m.
This facility, which was unsecured, included a covenant related to adjusted benchmark earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent and also included a covenant related to net balance sheet debt.
The Group has not drawn down on its borrowing facilities and has been in compliance with the requirements of the covenants throughout the year.
Trade and other payables of 828.6m 2015: 828.6m all have contractual maturity dates of less than three months at the balance sheet date.
When a forward foreign exchange contract matures, this requires an outflow of the currency being sold and an inflow of the currency being bought.
The table below analyses the Groups outflow and inflow from derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
at 27 February 2016 less than 3 36 69 912 months months months months total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 251.8 141.5 160.9 98.7 652.9 outflow inflow 272.5 154.4 172.1 103.4 702.4 At 28 February 2015 Less than 3 36 69 912 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts outflow 237.1 191.9 203.6 87.9 720.5 inflow 252.0 202.4 205.9 87.3 747.6 capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal and efficient capital structure.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group finances its operations through a combination of cash, property leases and borrowing facilities where necessary.
The Group has significant commitments through its obligations to pay rents under property leases.
The Group, in common with the credit rating agencies, treats its lease liabilities as debt when evaluating financial risk and investment returns.
In addition, the Groups Financial Services business holds a net loan book balance of 614m 2015: 580m as at 27 February 2016.
The Groups net debt varies throughout the year due to trading seasonality, and the position as at 27 February 2016 is set out in the analysis of net cash debt on page 68.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Closing 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 2016 2015 US dollar 1.51 1.63 1.39 1.54 Euro 1.37 1.26 1.27 1.38 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 78 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 79 Fair value estimation IFRS 13 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following measurement hierarchy: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices : and Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
level 1 level 2 level 3 total m m m m assets Other Financial Assets Forward foreign exchange contracts 52.1 52.1 Other Financial Assets 10.2 0.1 10.3 total assets 10.2 52.1 0.1 62.4 liabilities Other Financial Liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.6 2.6 total liabilities 2.6 2.6 The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
These instruments are included in level 1 and comprise investments in quoted managed indexed funds.
As at 27 February 2016, these instruments, which are classified as other financial assets, had a carrying value of 10.2m 2015: 10.5m.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
As at 27 February 2016, the fair value of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes was a net asset of 49.5m 2015: 27.1m.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
The available-for-sale financial asset within the level 3 hierarchy is measured at cost less impairment.
The impairment has been calculated to write down the asset to its recoverable value based on the actual financial position of the Groups associate.
The fair value measurement is therefore not sensitive to changes in inputs.
There have been no movements in level 3 financial assets during the period and there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 79 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 80 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 5.
Segmental inFOrmatiOn The Board of Directors and Group Executive Board review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports, which reflect the distinct retail brands and different risks associated with the different businesses.
On 27 February 2016 the Group disposed of 100% of the Homebase segment and therefore it has been disclosed as a discontinued operation.
The Retained Group is organised into two main business segments: Argos and Financial Services together with Central Activities.
The Board of Directors and Group Executive Board assess the performance of the operating segments based on a combination of revenue and benchmark operating profit.
Benchmark operating profit is defined within note 3.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 m m revenue Argos 4,095.3 4,096.0 Financial Services 139.4 135.1 revenue from continuing operations 4,234.7 4,231.1 Discontinued operations 1,433.1 1,479.3 total revenue 5,667.8 5,710.4 Benchmark operating profit Argos 83.1 129.2 Financial Services 7.0 7.0 Central Activities 22.5 26.5 Benchmark operating profit from continuing operations 67.6 109.7 Benchmark operating profit from discontinued operations 23.5 19.8 total benchmark operating profit 91.1 129.5 Benchmark net financing income 3.6 2.6 total Benchmark profit before tax 94.7 132.1 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.8 1.8 Post-employment benefit scheme administration costs 1.9 1.9 Adjustments in respect of store impairment and property provisions 4.7 0.1 Exceptional items continuing operations 891.5 29.3 Exceptional items discontinued operations 13.0 6.2 Financing fair value remeasurements 2.4 1.0 Financing impact on post-employment benefit obligations 3.2 3.0 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 6.2 6.7 Balance sheet review 11.5 total profit before tax 804.0 93.8 Total taxation 3.8 22.2 total profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the company 807.8 71.6 Of which: Profit for the year from continuing operations 848.6 65.3 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 40.8 6.3 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 80 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 81 2016 2015 m m Segment assets Argos 1,631.1 2,395.9 Financial Services 645.2 622.8 Central Activities 161.6 71.5 2,437.9 3,090.2 total segment assets continuing operations 30.9 57.8 Tax assets Cash and cash equivalents 622.9 309.3 total assets continuing operations 3,091.7 3,457.3 Total assets discontinued operations 915.4 total assets per balance sheet 3,091.7 4,372.7 Segment assets include goodwill and other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables and other financial assets.
Tax assets and cash and cash equivalents are not allocated to segments.
2016 2015 m m Segment liabilities Argos 952.4 841.4 Financial Services 41.1 56.3 146.6 108.5 Central Activities total segment liabilities continuing operations 1,140.1 1,006.2 Tax liabilities 19.5 31.1 Post-employment benefit obligations 94.5 114.4 total liabilities continuing operations 1,254.1 1,151.7 Total liabilities discontinued operations 548.1 total liabilities per balance sheet 1,254.1 1,699.8 Segment liabilities include trade and other payables, provisions and other financial liabilities.
Tax liabilities and post-employment benefit obligations are not allocated to segments.
52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 Financial central continuing discontinued argos Services activities operations operations total Other segment items Notes m m m m m m Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 17 65.1 65.1 24.4 89.5 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 16 48.0 0.4 11.4 59.8 12.2 72.0 Goodwill impairment 15 851.7 - 2.9 854.6 - 854.6 Additions to property, plant and equipment 17 43.8 0.1 43.9 21.6 65.5 Additions to other intangible assets 16 92.8 0.1 92.9 14.4 107.3 52 weeks ended 28 February 2015 Financial Central Continuing Discontinued Argos Services Activities operations operations Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m m Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 17 53.4 3.5 56.9 44.5 101.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 16 37.0 0.4 2.2 39.6 10.8 50.4 Additions to property, plant and equipment 17 42.3 2.1 44.4 36.8 81.2 Additions to other intangible assets 16 70.5 70.5 22.8 93.3 geographical segments The Group trades predominantly in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and consequently the majority of revenues, capital expenditure and segment net assets arise there.
The profits, turnover and assets of the businesses in the Republic of Ireland are not significant to the Group.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 81 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 82 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 6. analYSiS OF revenUe BY categOrY 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 m m continuing operations Sale of goods 4,095.3 4,096.0 Provision of services by Financial Services 139.4 135.1 total continuing operations 4,234.7 4,231.1 1,433.1 1,479.3 Discontinued operations total 5,667.8 5,710.4 All revenue from discontinued operations in FY16 and FY15 relate to the sale of goods.
7. net OPerating eXPenSeS 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 52 weeks ended 28 February 2015 continuing discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations expenses by function m m m m 778.1 519.9 739.1 578.4 Selling costs 1,142.0 67.9 271.7 81.9 Administrative costs 1,920.1 587.8 1,010.8 660.3 total net operating expenses Included within administrative expenses for continuing operations is 891.5m FY15: 29.3m of exceptional costs.
Included within administrative expenses for discontinued operations is 13.0m of exceptional income FY15: 6.2m of exceptional costs.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 continuing operations Notes m m Loss profit before tax is stated after charging crediting: Operating lease rental expense 167.1 161.5 Cost of inventories and other direct expenses recognised in cost of sales 3,042.5 3,030.5 Write down of inventories 108.9 100.1 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 1.1 1.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 53.8 59.6 Impairment charges - Goodwill 15 854.6 Impairment charges - Other assets 16,17 20.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 16 50.2 42.8 Employee benefit costs 8 455.3 431.8 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 auditors remuneration m m Audit services: Fees payable for the audit of the Company and the consolidated financial statements 0.9 1.1 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 1.0 1.2 Other services: Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services 1.2 other assurance services services relating to taxation 0.2 0.1 total fees payable to  llP 2.4 1.3 Other assurance services relate to services provided in respect of the sale of Homebase.
Further details of these fees are included on page 40 within the Group Audit and Risk Committee report.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 82 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 83 8. emPlOYee BeneFit cOStS and emPlOYee nUmBerS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 employee costs Notes m m continuing operations Wages and salaries 420.4 387.0 24.8 26.7 Social security costs 25 11.2 10.7 Other pension costs Share-based payments 29 1.1 7.4 455.3 431.8 discontinued operations Wages and salaries 173.2 194.2 Social security costs 11.5 12.4 25 3.1 3.6 Other pension costs 29 1.9 1.2 Share-based payments 189.7 211.4 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 52 weeks ended 28 February 2015 number of Full time Number of Full time average number of employees employees equivalent employees equivalent continuing operations 29,565 15,627 28,791 14,726 Argos 865 786 734 665 Financial Services Central Activities 59 58 58 58 total continuing operations 30,489 16,471 29,583 15,449 14,885 8,057 17,006 8,944 discontinued operations 45,374 24,528 46,589 24,393 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 Key management compensation m m Short-term employee benefits 3.6 4.1 0.3 1.8 Share-based payments 3.3 5.9 Key management consists of the members of the Home Retail Group plc Board of Directors and the managing director of Homebase.
The directors remuneration is set out on pages 41 to 52.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 83 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 84 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 9. eXcePtiOnal itemS FrOm cOntinUing OPeratiOnS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 m m Argos goodwill impairment 851.7 - Habitat goodwill and brand intangible impairment 12.5 - 10.3 12.2 Argos transformation charges 17.0 4.1 Financial Services customer redress - 13.0 Other restructuring charges exceptional items in operating loss profit 891.5 29.3 Tax on exceptional items in profit before tax 8.0 5.8 exceptional loss after tax for the year 883.5 23.5 The carrying amount of Argos goodwill has been reviewed in light of the recommended offer received from J Sainsbury plc on 1 April 2016 for the purchase of Home Retail Group plc.
An impairment charge of 851.7m has been recognised to write the carrying value of goodwill down to its recoverable amount.
This charge has been calculated to align Group net assets, adjusted for certain items, to the offer value.
A charge of 12.5m has been incurred in relation to the impairment of Habitat brand intangibles and goodwill which occurs directly as a result of the sale of Homebase and subsequent closure of Habitat concessions in Homebase over approximately the next 6 months.
Exceptional restructuring charges totalling 10.3m FY15: 12.2m were incurred during the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016.
These charges were incurred in Argos in respect of the ongoing project to transform Argos into a digital retail leader.
A total charge of 41.5m has been recognised across the three-year period versus the original estimate of c. 50m which was announced at the start of the Transformation Plan in October 2012.
The Financial Services customer redress charge principally relates to customer redress in respect of PPI which was historically provided by Financial Services.
This includes a charge relating to a potential exposure resulting from the Supreme Court ruling on Plevin vs Paragon in November 2014 and the subsequent FCA consultation paper issued in November 2015.
For exceptional items from discontinued operations refer to note 14.
10. net Financing incOme eXPenSe 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 52 weeks ended 28 February 2015 continuing discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations total operations operations Total m m m m m m Finance income: 1.9 1.9 0.7 0.7 Bank deposits 2.7 2.7 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange gains total finance income 1.9 1.9 3.4 3.4 Finance expense: Unwinding of discounts 6.5 6.5 7.5 7.5 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange losses 1.7 0.7 2.4 2.4 1.3 3.7 3.2 3.2 3.0 3.0 Net finance expense on post-employment benefit obligations Other finance expense 2.1 2.1 1.2 1.2 7.0 7.2 14.2 6.6 8.8 15.4 total finance expense Less: finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 4.1 4.1 3.9 3.9 total net finance expense 2.9 7.2 10.1 2.7 8.8 11.5 net financing expense income 1.0 7.2 8.2 0.7 8.8 8.1 Included within unwinding of discounts is a 6.2m charge FY15: 6.7m relating to the non-benchmark discount unwind on property provisions.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 84 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 85 11. taXatiOn 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 analysis of charge in year m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 2.2 17.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.9 8.7 3.1 8.9 Total current UK tax charge 1.1 1.0 Overseas tax Total current tax charge 4.2 9.9 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7.1 3.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.0 8.7 8.3 22.5 total tax charge in income statement continuing operations total tax charge in income statement discontinued operations 4.5 0.3 total tax charge in income statement 3.8 22.2 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 tax included in other comprehensive income m m items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss: Cash flow hedges 5.5 9.1 Rate change impact 0.4 5.1 9.1 items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss: Post-employment benefit obligations 4.8 11.8 Rate change impact 0.9 0.7 3.9 11.1 total tax charge credit in other comprehensive income 1.2 2.0 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 85 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 86 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 11. taXatiOn CONTINUED Factors affecting the tax charge The effective tax rate for the year of 0.5% FY15: 23.7%, is lower than FY15: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.0% FY15: 21.0%.
This is analysed below: 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 52 weeks ended 28 February 2015 continuing discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations total operations operations Total m m m m m m Profit before tax 840.3 36.3 804.0 87.8 6.0 93.8 Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 168.1 7.3 160.8 18.4 1.3 19.7 Effects of: Benchmark income expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7.1 3.8 3.3 5.5 0.3 5.8 Non-benchmark income expenses not deductible for tax purposes 171.4 3.2 168.2 0.9 1.1 0.2 Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings 0.5 0.5 Tax charge on non-benchmark items 11.1 0.5 11.6 5.5 2.3 7.8 Benchmark tax expense 21.5 0.8 22.3 28.0 5.0 33.0 Non-benchmark: Tax credit on exceptional items 8.0 0.3 8.3 5.8 1.3 7.1 Tax credit charge on non-benchmark items 3.1 3.1 0.3 1.0 0.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.1 4.8 6.9 3.0 3.0 Corporation tax on chargeable gain 6.7 6.7 Utilisation of unprovided capital losses 6.7 6.7 Rate change impact 0.2 0.2 total tax charge credit in income statement 8.3 4.5 3.8 22.5 0.3 22.2 Factors that may affect future tax charges The income tax expense for the year is based on the UK statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 20.0% FY15: 21.0%.
Overseas tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The impact of the changes in statutory rates relates to the reduction of the UK corporation tax rate from 20.0% to 19.0% from 1 April 2017 the substantively enacted rate, and has a 0.2m impact to the income statement and 0.5m impact to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The 2016 Budget announced that corporation tax would be reduced further from 1 April 2020 to 17.0%, this differs from the substantively enacted rate of 18.0%.
The estimated impact of this is a 1.2m deferred tax credit, of which 0.2m would be credited to the income statement and 1.0m to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income at the balance sheet date.
12. dividendS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 m m amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders Final dividend of 2.8p per share 2015: 2.3p for the prior year 21.2 17.8 Interim dividend of 1.0p per share 2015: 1.0p for the current year 7.8 7.5 Ordinary dividends on equity shares 29.0 25.3 On 1 April 2016, the Board recommended an offer from J Sainsbury plc for the purchase of Home Retail Group plc, the details of which are set out in note 36.
As a result of the 2.8p element of the proposed capital return component of the offer, which reflects a payment in lieu of the FY16 final dividend, no final dividend is proposed for FY16.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 86 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 87 13.
BaSic and dilUted earningS Per SHare ePS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts, net of vested but unexercised share awards.
Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potential dilutive ordinary shares.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 earnings Notes m m Loss profit after tax for continuing operations 848.6 65.3 Profit after tax for discontinued operations 40.8 6.3 total loss profit after tax for the financial year 807.8 71.6 Adjusted for: Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.8 1.8 Post-employment benefit scheme administration costs 1.9 1.9 Adjustments in respect of store impairment and property provisions 4.7 0.1 Exceptional items continuing operations 9 891.5 29.3 Exceptional items discontinued operations 14 13.0 6.2 Financing fair value remeasurements 10 2.4 1.0 Financing impact on post-employment benefit obligations 10 3.2 3.0 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 10 6.2 6.7 Balance sheet review 11.5 Attributable taxation credit 11.4 7.8 Non-benchmark tax credit in respect of prior years 6.9 3.0 Tax rate change 0.2 Benchmark profit after tax for the financial year 72.4 99.1 Continuing operations 50.0 85.1 Discontinued operations 22.4 14.0 Weighted average number of shares millions millions Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 775.5 764.3 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 25.0 36.0 number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted ePS 800.5 800.3 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 ePS pence pence EPS from continuing operations: Basic 109.4 8.6 Diluted 109.4 8.1 EPS from discontinued operations: Basic 5.3 0.8 Diluted 5.1 0.8 EPS for total Group Basic 104.2 9.4 Diluted 104.2 8.9 Total Basic benchmark EPS 9.3 13.0 Continuing operations 6.4 11.2 Discontinued operations 2.9 1.8 Diluted benchmark EPS 9.0 12.4 Continuing operations 6.2 10.6 Discontinued operations 2.8 1.8 EPS from continuing operations and EPS for total Group are losses per share for FY16.
As such, in line with the requirements of IAS 33 Earnings per share these diluted EPS calculations are based on the basic number of shares.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 87 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 88 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 14. diScOntinUed OPeratiOnS On 27 February 2016 the Group sold 100% of the Homebase business to Wesfarmers Limited.
A summary of the consolidated income statement, exceptional items and the loss on disposal, with respect to discontinued operations are set out below.
i consolidated income statement 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 Notes m m revenue 1,433.1 1,479.3 Cost of sales 801.8 804.2 gross profit 631.3 675.1 Net operating expenses 14 iii 600.8 654.1 Operating profit before exceptional items 30.5 21.0 Exceptional items 14 iv 13.0 6.2 Operating profit 43.5 14.8 Finance expense 7.2 8.8 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 36.3 6.0 Taxation 4.5 0.3 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 40.8 6.3 ii Benchmark PBt reconciliation 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 NonGAAP measures Notes m m Reconciliation of PBT to benchmark PBT PBT from discontinued operations 36.3 6.0 Adjusted for: Adjustments in respect of store impairment and property provisions 17, 24 7.0 1.2 Exceptional items 14 iv 13.0 6.2 Financing fair value remeasurements 10 0.7 1.3 Discount unwind on nonbenchmark items 10 6.2 6.7 Benchmark PBT from discontinued operations 23.2 19.0 Benchmark net financing expense 0.3 0.8 Benchmark operating profit from discontinued operations 23.5 19.8 iii net operating expenses 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 Notes m m Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting: Operating lease rental expense 153.1 171.9 Cost of inventories and other direct expenses recognised in cost of sales 787.7 790.1 Write down of inventories 14.1 14.1 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 0.4 0.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 24.4 26.0 Impairment charges 17 15.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 16 12.2 7.6 Employee benefit costs 8 189.7 211.4 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 88 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 89 iv exceptional items 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 Notes m m Loss on disposal 14 v 18.5 Sale related transaction, separation and restructuring costs 7.8 Gain on sale of freehold property 39.3 Other restructuring costs 6.2 exceptional items in operating profit 13.0 6.2 Tax on exceptional items in profit before tax 0.3 1.3 exceptional gain loss after tax for the year 13.3 4.9 Transaction, separation and restructuring costs of 7.8m relate to the costs incurred as a result of the Homebase sale, and which form part of the previously announced total cost of c. 75m.
The gain on sale of freehold property represents the gain following the sale of the Groups freehold located in Battersea, London.
The gain represents cash proceeds of 57.7m 2016: 27.7m, 2015: 30.0m less net book value and costs of sale of 18.4m.
v loss on disposal 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 m m FY16 gross cash proceeds 362.1 Less: Homebase cash 24.8 FY16 net cash proceeds 337.3 FY17 gross cash proceeds 2.7 340.0 total net cash proceeds Net assets disposed of 371.6 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on disposal 13.1 loss on disposal 18.5 Exchange differences recognised in the income statement on disposal principally comprises a hedging reserve gain.
vi cash flows 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 m m Net cash flows from operating activities 14.0 81.1 Net cash flows from investing activities 16.5 52.5 Net cash flows from financing activities Net cash inflow 30.5 28.6 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 89 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 90 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 15. gOOdWill central argos Homebase activities total m m m m Cost At 1 March 2015 1,152.3 770.4 2.9 1,925.6 Disposal 770.4 770.4 at 27 February 2016 1,152.3 2.9 1,155.2 Accumulated impairment At 1 March 2015 381.7 381.7 Impairment 851.7 2.9 854.6 Disposal 381.7 381.7 at 27 February 2016 851.7 2.9 854.6 net book value at 27 February 2016 300.6 300.6 central argos Homebase activities total m m m m Cost At March 2014 and 28 February 2015 1,152.3 770.4 2.9 1,925.6 Accumulated impairment At 3 March 2014 and 28 February 2015 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 28 February 2015 1,152.3 388.7 2.9 1,543.9 Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to two individual cash-generating units CGUs being the business segments of Argos and Habitat which is included within Central Activities.
The goodwill in respect of Homebase has been incorporated in the disposal of the business note 14.
The carrying amount of Argos goodwill has been reviewed in light of the recommended offer received from J Sainsbury plc on 1 April 2016 for the purchase of Home Retail Group plc.
An impairment charge of 851.7m has been recognised, such that after this charge the carrying amount of Argos goodwill is 300.6m.
The carrying value of Habitat goodwill was reviewed in light of the sale of Homebase.
An impairment charge of 2.9m has been recognised, which fully writes down the Habitat goodwill.
This has arisen directly as a result of the sale of Homebase and subsequent closure of Habitat concessions in Homebase over approximately the next 6 months.
In the prior year the recoverable amount of goodwill was determined based on the value-in-use calculation.
The key assumptions used for the Argos business were: compound annual increase in sales of 3.4%, long term growth beyond five years of 2.0% and a post tax discount rate of 8.5%.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 90 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 91 16.
OtHer intangiBle aSSetS computer software Brands total m m m Cost At 1 March 2015 458.3 40.5 498.8 Additions 107.3 107.3 Disposals 9.2 9.2 Disposal of business 80.0 80.0 at 27 February 2016 476.4 40.5 516.9 Accumulated amortisation At 1 March 2015 243.1 20.2 263.3 Charge for the year 58.3 4.1 62.4 Impairment 9.6 9.6 Disposals 9.3 9.3 Disposal of business 38.0 38.0 at 27 February 2016 254.1 33.9 288.0 net book value at 27 February 2016 222.3 6.6 228.9 Assets in the course of construction included above at 27 February 2016 19.0 19.0 computer software Brands total m m m Cost At 2 March 2014 368.8 40.5 409.3 Additions 93.3 93.3 Disposals 3.8 3.8 At 28 February 2015 458.3 40.5 498.8 Accumulated amortisation At 2 March 2014 199.5 16.2 215.7 Charge for the year 46.4 4.0 50.4 Disposals 2.8 2.8 At 28 February 2015 243.1 20.2 263.3 Net book value at 28 February 2015 215.2 20.3 235.5 Net book value at 1 March 2014 169.3 24.3 193.6 Assets in the course of construction included above at 28 February 2015 25.2 25.2 Amortisation of 2.5m 2015: 2.6m is included in cost of sales in the income statement and 59.9m 2015: 47.8m in net operating expenses.
The impairment of Habitat brand intangibles has arisen directly as a result of the sale of Homebase and subsequent closure of Habitat concessions in Homebase over approximately the next 6 months.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 91 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 92 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 17.
PrOPertY, Plant and eQUiPment leasehold properties Freehold long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment total m m m m m Cost At 1 March 2015 111.0 1.7 354.0 1,079.8 1,546.5 Exchange differences 0.7 4.7 5.4 Additions 4.0 61.5 65.5 Disposals 30.9 67.1 98.0 Disposal of business 33.4 161.9 441.8 637.1 at 27 February 2016 77.6 1.7 165.9 637.1 882.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 1 March 2015 26.3 0.5 287.4 819.4 1,133.6 Exchange differences 0.4 4.5 4.9 Charge for the year 1.5 14.0 62.7 78.2 Impairment charge 11.3 11.3 Disposals 30.1 64.2 94.3 Disposal of business 10.7 152.7 347.9 511.3 at 27 February 2016 17.1 0.5 119.0 485.8 622.4 net book value at 27 February 2016 60.5 1.2 46.9 151.3 259.9 Assets in the course of construction included above at 27 February 2016 9.1 9.1 Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 2 March 2014 129.8 1.7 357.3 1,040.3 1,529.1 Exchange differences 2.1 5.8 7.9 Additions 6.2 75.0 81.2 Disposals 7.2 27.0 34.2 Assets transferred to held for sale 18.8 0.2 2.7 21.7 At 28 February 2015 111.0 1.7 354.0 1,079.8 1,546.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 2 March 2014 26.5 0.5 277.4 768.0 1,072.4 Exchange differences 1.6 5.2 6.8 Charge for the year 1.6 14.5 69.5 85.6 Impairment charge 3.2 12.6 15.8 Disposals 6.1 23.9 30.0 Assets transferred to held for sale 1.8 1.6 3.4 At 28 February 2015 26.3 0.5 287.4 819.4 1,133.6 Net book value at 28 February 2015 84.7 1.2 66.6 260.4 412.9 Net book value at 1 March 2014 103.3 1.2 79.9 272.3 456.7 Assets in the course of construction included above at 28 February 2015 15.3 15.3 Store assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
Store assets or the CGU to which the assets belong are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are the same as those detailed for the goodwill impairment model in note 15.
This years impairment charge is principally due to the impairment of plant & equipment associated with the Argos digital concessions in Homebase.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 92 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 93 18. inveStmentS in aSSOciateS The Group has a 49% holding in HH Retail Limited, the Groups associate in China which is closed and no longer trades.
No liability has been recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of HH Retail Limited, but the Groups share of its accumulated losses has been taken initially against the carrying value of the investment, then subsequently against the carrying value of loans granted by the Group to HH Retail Limited, which are reported within other financial assets in note 19.
OtHer Financial aSSetS and liaBilitieS current non-current Current Non-current 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Other financial assets Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 52.1 30.0 Other financial assets 10.3 10.6 total other financial assets 52.1 10.3 30.0 10.6 Other financial liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 2.6 2.9 total other financial liabilities 2.6 2.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts The forward foreign exchange contracts are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash flows are expected to occur up to 14 months into the future.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in shareholders equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at the year-end will be released within one year from the balance sheet date.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 27 February 2016 were 652.9m 2015: 720.5m.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Other financial assets Other financial assets are classified as available-for-sale and are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
During the year, the Group disposed of no other financial assets 2015: nil.
20. inventOrieS 2016 2015 m m Goods for resale 755.8 963.0 Included in goods for resale is a reduction in the unit cost of inventory for commercial income earned on stock which has not yet been sold.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 93 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 94 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 21. trade and OtHer receivaBleS current non-current Current Non-current 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Trade receivables: Financial Services loan book 677.0 644.1 Other trade receivables 58.9 62.8 735.9 706.9 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 65.3 68.4 670.6 638.5 Other receivables 120.3 98.8 1.4 Prepayments and accrued income 39.4 52.7 830.3 790.0 1.4 The carrying values of current trade and other receivables are a reasonable approximation of their fair values due to their short-term nature.
Long-term receivables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
All receivables due after more than one year are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a broad customer base.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Included in other receivables is 13.0m 2015: 23.0m of commercial income balances which have been earned during FY16 and principally relate to contractually agreed volume-based rebates which are expected to be collected in Q1 FY17.
As at 27 February 2016, trade receivables of 66.8m 2015: 62.1m were individually determined to be impaired.
The impaired receivables mainly relate to store cardholder balances on customer accounts on which indications of possible default have been identified.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables is also made on a portfolio basis against trade receivables which are not individually determined to be impaired.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 28 February 2015 68.4 73.1 Charge for the year 17.3 16.2 Utilised 20.4 20.9 at 27 February 2016 65.3 68.4 As at 27 February 2016, trade receivables of 10.2m 2015: 8.0m were past due but not impaired.
These mainly relate to other trade receivable balances.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Less than 3 months 9.0 4.1 3 to 6 months 1.2 3.7 6 to 9 months 0.2 10.2 8.0 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
22. caSH and caSH eQUivalentS 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 622.9 309.3 The effective interest rate during the year ended 27 February 2016 for cash and cash equivalents was 0.6% 2015: 0.6%.
The Group has provided letters of credit totalling 12.5m 2015: 12.5m to AIG Europe Limited as part of their re-insurance agreement.
These letters are secured by cash deposits.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 94 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 95 23. trade and OtHer PaYaBleS current non-current Current Non-current 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Trade payables 678.1 687.8 Social security costs and other taxes 48.6 80.4 Accruals 114.9 193.3 Deferred income 69.6 16.8 180.8 46.4 Other payables 150.5 140.8 1,061.7 16.8 1,283.1 46.4 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and the fair values are not considered to differ materially from the recognised book values.
Long-term payables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
PrOviSiOnS FS customer Property insurance restructuring redress Other total m m m m m m At 1 March 2015 130.7 35.5 20.8 29.0 5.9 221.9 Charged to the income statement 8.0 4.3 19.0 17.0 5.7 54.0 Released to the income statement 14.6 3.2 17.8 Utilised during the year cash 18.3 4.9 25.8 34.5 5.8 89.3 Utilised during the year non cash 0.7 1.2 1.9 Transfer from accruals 1.3 0.2 1.5 Exchange differences 1.6 1.6 Discount unwind 6.7 - - - - 6.7 Impact of business disposal 112.9 2.3 0.2 2.3 117.7 at 27 February 2016 1.8 29.4 12.8 11.5 3.5 59.0 analysed as: 2016 2015 m m Current 38.1 95.7 Non-current 20.9 126.2 59.0 221.9 Property provisions comprise obligations in respect of onerous leases together with other costs or income associated with store closures.
In respect of onerous leases, provision is made for onerous lease contracts on stores that have either closed, or where projected future trading income is insufficient to cover the lower of exit cost or cost of continuing to trade the store.
Where the cost of continuing to trade the store is lower, the provision is based on the present value of expected future cash flows relating to rents, rates and other property costs to the end of the lease terms net of expected trading or sublet income.
Provision is made for the estimated costs of insurance claims incurred by the Group which have not been settled at the balance sheet date, including the costs of claims that have arisen but have not yet been reported to the Group.
The estimated cost of claims includes operational costs to be incurred in administering future claims.
The restructuring provision principally relates to the restructuring charges incurred following the sale of Homebase.
The Financial Services customer redress provision principally relates to customer redress in respect of PPI and includes a charge relating to a potential exposure resulting from the Supreme Court ruling on Plevin vs Paragon in November 2014 and the subsequent FCA consultation paper issued in November 2015.
The customer redress provision comprises the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers in respect of past sales of PPI policies, including the related operational costs of administering these claims.
The eventual cost is dependent upon response rates, uphold rates, redress costs, claim handling costs and costs associated with claims that are subsequently referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The provision represents managements best estimate of future costs and will remain under review.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 95 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 96 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 25.
POSt-emPlOYment BeneFitS During the year, the Group operated both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension scheme that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which both the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
The defined benefit scheme is closed to future accrual.
The cost of providing the benefits under the defined contribution schemes, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
Pension arrangements for UK employees were provided principally through a defined benefit scheme the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme, until it was closed to future accrual during FY13, and a defined contribution scheme the Home Retail Group Personal Pension Plan, which continues to be operated.
In other countries, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
defined benefit schemes The Home Retail Group Pension Scheme The scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly with assets being held in independently administered funds.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The last full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2012 by independent, qualified actuaries, Towers Watson, using the projected unit method and resulted in a deficit of 158m.
The deficit recovery plan agreed with the Trustee provides for payments of 22m per annum paid in quarterly instalments until 31 December 2019.
As part of the sale of Homebase it was agreed with the Trustee that an additional cash contribution of 26m would be made to the scheme at the time that the sale process was completed, which was 27 February 2016.
In addition, following any return of capital associated with the sale, an additional cash contribution of 24m will be made to the scheme.
The Group will also provide security in the form of a first fixed charge over certain freehold property of the Group with a value of 37.5m on an open market vacant possession basis.
The full actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2015 is well advanced and agreement has been reached in principal with the Trustee which would result in: A deficit as at 31 March 2015 of 250m, before the payments associated with the sale of Homebase noted above: and Annual deficit recovery payments to the scheme increasing from 22m to 30m.
Final agreement of the valuation is awaiting the outcome of the potential acquisition of the Group by J Sainsbury plc.
Should the acquisition not proceed, the agreement in principal as set out above will be put into effect.
Should the acquisition proceed, then separate arrangements agreed between J Sainsbury plc and the Trustee will be put into effect.
Unfunded defined benefit scheme The Group has in place arrangements which secure unfunded pension benefit arrangements for certain directors and senior managers by granting charges to an independent Trustee over an independently managed portfolio of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets charged in this way is adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured in this way as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme.
The total value of the assets charged in this way at 27 February 2016 was 10.2m 2015: 10.5m.
The Groups unfunded defined benefit arrangement closed to future accrual with effect from 30 April 2013.
Further details of the pension arrangements for directors appear in the audited part of the directors remuneration report.
IAS 19 valuations The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial funding valuations and have been updated by KPMG to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes at the year-end.
As required by IAS 19, the value of the defined benefit obligations at the year-end has been measured using the projected unit method.
The movements during the year in the net deficit recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: 2016 2015 m m at 1 march 2015 114.4 76.6 Total net charge recognised in the consolidated income statement 5.1 4.9 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 24.7 55.6 Impact of business disposal 1.0 Contributions paid by the Group annual deficit recovery payment 22.0 22.0 Homebase sale related payment 26.0 other 0.7 0.7 at 27 February 2016 94.5 114.4 During the year, the Group has paid contributions totalling 48.7m 2015: 22.7m to the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme including 22.0m 2015: 22.0m as part of the deficit recovery plan agreed with the scheme Trustee following the completion of the 31 March 2012 actuarial valuation and 26.0m of additional contributions following the sale of Homebase.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 96 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 97 The defined benefit obligations consist of a combination of both insured liabilities whereby the Trustee has entered an insurance contract with a regulated insurer, to take over the financial responsibility for meeting the cost of the pension promise made by the Group to those members covered by the premium and non-insured liabilities where the Group has responsibility for meeting the costs of the pension promise.
The risks associated with defined benefit funding for the insured liabilities have therefore been passed to the insurance company although the Group retains ultimate responsibility for the insured liabilities if the insurance company should fail.
Recognising this transfer of risk, the sensitivities described below relate to the non-insured defined benefit obligations only.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows: 2016 2015 m m Fair value of scheme assets 1,009.4 989.3 Present value of insured funded obligations 323.0 315.4 Present value of non-insured funded liabilities 769.0 776.2 Deficit in the funded scheme 82.6 102.3 Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 11.9 12.1 Post-employment benefits recognised in the balance sheet 94.5 114.4 The weighted average duration to payment of the schemes expected non-insured cash flows is 28 years 2015: 27 years.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement were as follows: 2016 2015 Notes m m Post-employment benefit scheme administration costs 1.9 1.9 Net finance expense on post-employment benefit obligations 10 3.2 3.0 total net charge recognised in the consolidated income statement 5.1 4.9 Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension arrangements are in addition to those set out in this note and are charged directly to the income statement.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2016 2015 % % Rate of inflation 3.1 3.0 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.9 2.9 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 2.9 2.9 Discount rate 3.8 3.5 Life expectancy: at age 65 for a male currently aged 65 23.1 years 22.4 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 65 25.5 years 24.8 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 50 24.6 years 24.0 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 50 27.2 years 26.6 years The discount rate is based on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of equivalent currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligations to changes in the material assumptions is detailed below.
Changes in the insured defined obligations are matched by changes in the fair value of the insurance contract and therefore the sensitivities below relate to the non-insured defined benefit obligations only.
The impact of changing material assumptions is as follows: 2016 2015 indicative effect Indicative effect Increase on non-insured on non-insured decrease in defined benefit defined benefit assumptions obligations obligations m m Rate of inflation 0.5% - 89 - 103 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 0.5% - 45 - 47 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 0.5% - 50 - 53 Discount rate 0.5% - 95 - 96 Life expectancy 1 year - 27 - 22 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 97 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 98 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 25.
POSt-emPlOYment BeneFitS CONTINUED Following closure of the scheme to future accrual during FY13, the present value of the defined benefit obligations is no longer impacted by increases in salaries.
The calculations in this section have been carried out using the same method and data as the Groups pensions and accounting figures with each assumption adjusted as shown above.
Each assumption has been varied individually and a combination of changes in assumptions could produce a different result.
The assets of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme are summarised as follows: 2016 2015 Fair value Fair value of Percentage Fair value Fair value Percentage of quoted unquoted of scheme of quoted of unquoted of scheme assets assets assets assets assets assets m m % m m % Insurance policy 323.0 32 315.4 32 Equities 153.2 15 260.8 26 1 Fund of hedge funds 91.9 9 99.7 10 2 Diversified growth fund 128.6 13 139.8 14 Property funds 55.7 58.3 11 49.4 58.2 11 Corporate bonds 104.5 53.2 16 Index linked government bonds 5.2 1 6.2 1 Cash and cash equivalents 8.4 1 8.6 1 Other 44.2 4 51.2 5 Fair value of scheme assets 438.8 570.6 100 464.8 524.5 100 1 The fund of hedge funds holds a portfolio of other hedge funds and is designed to achieve greater diversification of assets whilst maximising return and minimising risk to the scheme.
There are many different types of hedge fund, however they typically aim to produce absolute returns rather than relative returns, they use short as well as long-term investments and are typically traded more actively than traditional assets.
2 A diversified growth fund DGF invests in a broad range of asset classes and is designed to produce less volatile returns than equities, which, if achieved, should help pension schemes to better maintain their funding level in volatile markets.
DGFs generally aim to achieve positive return or a real return ahead of inflation, have a wide exposure to a range of asset classes and are a low governance solution to the problem of diversifying a schemes assets.
The DGF, Standard Life Global Absolute Return Strategies, aims to provide positive investment returns in all market conditions over the medium and long term and invests mainly in derivatives, fixed income assets and equities.
Investment strategy Investment risk is managed by diversifying the assets across asset classes whose return patterns are not highly correlated.
The assets include an insurance contract which matches approximately one-third of the schemes pension benefits and therefore helps to significantly reduce the Groups defined benefit pension risks.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liabilities are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Opening defined benefit liabilities 1,103.7 968.4 Finance expense 38.2 42.2 Remeasurements due to: Changes in financial assumptions 44.9 134.5 Experience on benefit liabilities 43.4 20.6 1.5 113.9 Liabilities disposed through the sale of Homebase 15.1 Benefits paid 24.4 20.8 closing defined benefit liabilities 1,103.9 1,103.7 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 98 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 99 Changes in the market value of the scheme assets are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Opening fair value of scheme assets 989.3 891.8 Finance income 35.0 39.2 Remeasurement of the assets recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 23.2 58.3 Post-employment benefit scheme administration costs 1.9 1.9 Contributions paid by the Group deficit recovery payment 22.0 22.0 Homebase sale related payment 26.0 other 0.7 0.7 Assets disposed through the sale of Homebase 14.1 Benefits paid 24.4 20.8 closing fair value of scheme assets 1,009.4 989.3 The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 11.8m 2015: 97.5m.
Risks The Group is exposed to a number of risks in relation to its defined benefit scheme, the most significant of which are detailed below: Investment strategy Changes in asset values are not matched by changes in the non-insured schemes defined benefit obligations.
For example, if equity values fall with no changes in corporate bond yields, the net deficit on the scheme would increase.
Investment returns Future investment returns are lower than anticipated and so additional contributions are required from the Group to pay all the non-insured benefits promised.
Improvements in life Scheme members live longer and so benefits are payable for longer than anticipated.
expectancy Inflation Actual inflation is higher and so benefit payments are higher than anticipated.
Regulatory In future the Scheme may have backdated claims or liabilities arising from future legislation, emerging practice or court judgements.
defined contribution schemes The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group to the defined contribution schemes and amounted to 14.3m 2015: 14.3m.
Contributions totalling 1.5m 2015: 1.5m were payable to the schemes at 27 February 2016 and are included within trade and other payables.
26. deFerred taX 2016 2015 Notes m m The movements on the net deferred tax account are as follows: At 1 March 2015 20.3 28.4 Income statement charge 11 4.9 12.0 Rate change impact 11 0.2 Impact of business disposal 14 5.2 Tax credited to other comprehensive income and equity 8.8 3.9 at 27 February 2016 12.0 20.3 The deferred tax amounts recognised are as follows: deferred tax assets: Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year 26.0 44.6 deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liability to be settled after more than one year 14.0 24.3 net deferred tax assets 12.0 20.3 Closing deferred tax has been calculated at the substantively enacted UK corporation tax rate of 19.0% 2015: 20.0%, which is effective from 1 April 2017, which differs from the UK corporation tax rate applied to the current year adjusted profits of 20.0%.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 99 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 100 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 26. deFerred taX CONTINUED The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Postasset employment provisions benefit Other total deferred tax assets Notes m m m m At 1 March 2015 21.8 22.8 44.6 Income statement charge 4.2 8.5 12.7 Impact of disposal Homebase 14 1.7 1.7 Tax credited to other comprehensive income and equity 7.6 3.9 - 3.7 Rate change 0.5 0.5 at 27 February 2016 7.8 18.2 26.0 PostAsset employment provisions benefit Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 2 March 2014 19.6 15.5 6.2 41.3 Income statement credit charge 0.3 3.8 3.5 Tax credited to other comprehensive income and equity 1.9 11.1 13.0 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 6.2 6.2 At 28 February 2015 21.8 22.8 44.6 accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other total deferred tax liabilities Notes m m m m At 1 March 2015 9.1 12.3 2.9 24.3 Income statement credit 1.2 6.6 7.8 Impact of disposal Homebase 14 5.3 0.4 2.0 6.9 Tax credited to other comprehensive income and equity 5.1 5.1 Rate change 0.4 0.3 0.7 at 27 February 2016 2.2 5.8 6.0 14.0 Accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m At 2 March 2014 9.8 3.1 12.9 Income statement credit charge 0.7 9.2 8.5 Tax credited to other comprehensive income and equity 9.1 9.1 Transfer from deferred tax assets 6.2 6.2 At 28 February 2015 9.1 12.3 2.9 24.3 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 12.7m 2015: 12.9m in respect of capital losses, which total 66.9m 2015: 64.7m that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 100 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 101 27.
SHare caPital 2016 2015 number 2016 Number 2015 of shares m of shares m allotted, called-up and fully paid Ordinary share capital of 10p each 813,445,001 81.3 813,445,001 81.3 28. nOteS tO tHe cOnSOlidated Statement OF cHangeS in eQUitY capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose as a result of the share buy-back programme that was undertaken during the year ended 26 February 2011. merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the demerger of the Group from GUS plc during 2006.
Other reserves treasury Hedging translation total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 1 March 2015 103.1 13.3 28.3 61.5 Other comprehensive income 22.5 2.7 25.2 Net movement in own shares 59.4 59.4 Discontinued operations 8.5 4.6 13.1 Balance at 27 February 2016 43.7 27.3 26.4 10.0 Treasury Hedging Translation Total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 2 March 2014 58.3 23.3 29.3 52.3 Other comprehensive income 36.6 1.0 35.6 Net movement in own shares 44.8 44.8 Balance at 28 February 2015 103.1 13.3 28.3 61.5 The net credit arising on the movement in own shares of 59.4m 2015: debit of 44.8m represents the purchase, and subsequent utilisation, of shares held for the purpose of satisfying obligations arising from the Groups share-based compensation schemes.
Shares in Home Retail Group plc are held in the following trusts: Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST The EST provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under share option and share grant schemes with the exception of the Share Incentive Plan.
The shares in the EST are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 41.6m 2015: 100.8m.
No additional shares were purchased during the year 2015: 50.0m.
Dividends on these shares are waived.
Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust The Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under the Share Incentive Plan.
These shares are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 2.1m 2015: 2.3m.
No additional shares were purchased during the year 2015: nil.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 101 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 102 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 29.
SHare-BaSed PaYment arrangementS Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation in respect of ordinary shares in the company 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 m m Share option awards 1.4 1.9 Share grant awards 0.6 6.7 Total expense recognised all equity-settled 0.8 8.6 Summary of share option and share award arrangements During the year ended 27 February 2016, Home Retail Group plc had a number of share option and share award arrangements for its employees, all of which are equity-settled.
Details of these arrangements are as follows: Share options the Home retail group plc save-as-you-earn SaYe plan permits the grant to employees of options over the Companys shares linked to a building society save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of between 5 and 250 per month.
Options are normally capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five-year period at an exercise price calculated at a 10% or 20% discount dependent upon the date of grant to market price over the three dealing days preceding invitation to participants.
Options must be exercised within six months of the end of the three or five-year SAYE contract.
the Home retail group approved option plan.
Options are granted at an exercise price equal to the market price of the shares over the ten dealing days preceding grant.
For those awards with performance conditions, the percentage of the options exercisable by participants is determined either by ranking TSR relative to a comparator group or by reference to performance against other specific targets, such as EPS growth, or cumulative adjusted cash flow.
The TSR target is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2, and the options with this performance condition have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
The other targets are non marketbased performance conditions, and the options with these performance conditions have been valued by reference to the share price at the date of grant.
Share awards the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of grant for nil consideration.
For all awards under this plan, vesting is conditional on participants continued service.
For those awards with performance conditions, the percentage of the award distributed to participants is determined either by ranking TSR relative to a comparator group or by reference to performance against other specific targets, such as EPS growth, or cumulative adjusted cash flow.
The TSR target is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2, and the awards with this performance condition have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
The other targets are non market-based performance conditions, and the awards with these performance conditions have been valued by reference to the share price at the date of grant.
The plan was amended in 2010 to add an HM Revenue & Customs approved option to the share awards at no additional cost.
The approved option is over the same number of shares as awarded under the normal PSP award, up to a maximum share value of 30,000.
The value of the award delivered under the approved share option is deducted from the PSP award, such that the two awards together give participants the same gross value as the normal PSP award.
the share incentive plan was a one-off free share grant to all employees at the time of the demerger.
The shares were acquired by a trust on behalf of participants and were normally forfeited if a participants employment with the Group ceased within three years of the grant date.
All awards under this plan vested after this initial three-year period in November 2009, at which point participants were able to withdraw their shares, and since November 2011 shares can be withdrawn free of tax.
The shares continue to be held by the trust until they are either withdrawn by participants or the awards lapse.
information relating to share option valuation techniques The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year over the Companys shares under the Groups option plans, determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, was 0.19 2015: 0.31 per option.
The significant inputs into the option pricing model were as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February Weighted average: 2016 2015 Share price on grant date 1.57 1.89 Exercise price 1.42 1.71 Expected volatility 33.9% 45.3% Expected dividend yield 2.6% 1.9% Risk free interest rate 1.4% 1.5% Expected option life to exercise 3.2 years 3.3 years MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 102 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 103 Expected volatility is a measure of expected fluctuations in the share price over the expected life of an option.
The measure of volatility used by the Group in its pricing model during the year ended 27 February 2016 has been set after considering the historical volatility of the Groups share price returns and the average of the volatilities of share price returns for other similar companies.
reconciliation of movement in the number of share options 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 27 February 2016 28 February 2015 Weighted Weighted average average number of exercise price Number of exercise price options options Outstanding at beginning of year 39,887,458 0.89 41,624,955 0.89 Granted 9,105,789 1.42 4,029,634 1.71 Forfeited 4,390,439 1.34 3,336,647 1.02 Exercised 21,439,068 0.59 1,318,491 1.03 Expired 1,469,672 3.24 1,111,993 3.39 Outstanding at year-end 21,694,068 1.16 39,887,458 0.89 Exercisable at year-end 389,551 1.48 2,324,980 2.65 The weighted average share price for share options exercised during the year was 1.46 2015: 1.90.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year Share options at the end of the year had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual lives: as at 27 February 2016 Weighted Weighted average average remaining lives exercise range of exercise prices number of price expected contractual options years years Up to 0.99 7,405,295 0.59 1.5 2.0 1.001.99 14,254,070 1.44 2.1 2.8 2.002.99 190,143 2.01 0.0 0.1 As at 28 February 2015 Weighted Weighted average average remaining lives exercise Range of exercise prices Number of price Expected Contractual options years years Up to 0.99 29,729,242 0.59 1.0 1.6 1.001.99 8,456,841 1.49 2.1 2.8 2.002.99 439,241 2.00 0.3 0.6 3.003.99 1,262,134 3.61 0.3 information relating to share award valuation techniques The value of the awards is determined as the observed market closing share price on the date awarded grants are issued to participants.
The performance share plans market-based performance condition is included in the fair value measurement on grant date and is not revised for actual performance.
All of the share awards are equity-settled.
Under the share awards, the participants have an entitlement to either dividend equivalents or dividend distributions from issue date until point of vesting.
The observed market share price on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of future dividend distributions.
There were 8,686,531 ordinary share awards 2015: 7,125,927 granted during the year with a weighted average fair value of 0.50 2015: 1.69.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 103 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 104 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 30.
OPerating leaSeS 2016 2015 m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Less than one year 145.6 313.5 Between one and five years 403.0 1,032.6 More than five years 250.3 996.1 total operating leases 798.9 2,342.2 The Group leases various retail stores, offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms and renewal rights.
Included within 2015 is 1,424.8m of total operating leases relating to discontinued operations.
31. cOmmitmentS 2016 2015 m m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment - 3.7 Intangible assets 6.4 4.1 total commitments 6.4 7.8 32. cOntingent liaBilitieS There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business, which if realised, are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
33. nOteS tO tHe cOnSOlidated Statement OF caSH FlOWS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 27 February 28 February 2016 2015 cash generated from operations Notes m m Loss profit before tax from continuing operations 840.3 87.8 Net financing expense income 1.0 0.7 Operating loss profit from continuing operations 839.3 87.1 Operating profit from discontinued operations 14 i 43.5 14.8 total operating loss profit 795.8 101.9 Adjusted for loss on disposal within exceptional items 14 iv 18.5 Adjusted for profit on disposal of freehold property 39.3 - Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 0.7 1.5 Depreciation and amortisation 140.6 136.0 Impairment charge 875.5 15.8 Finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 4.1 3.9 Increase in inventories 27.7 60.6 Increase in trade and other receivables 13.5 23.0 Increase in payables 94.1 120.2 Movement in trade working capital 52.9 36.6 Increase in Financial Services loan book 34.6 55.4 Movement in total working capital 18.3 18.8 Decrease in provisions 39.5 13.0 Movement in post-employment benefit obligations annual deficit recovery payment 22.0 22.0 Movement in post-employment benefit obligations Homebase sale related payment 26.0 Movement in post-employment benefit obligations other 1.2 1.2 Share-based payment expense net of dividend equivalent payments 0.3 8.3 cash generated from operations 134.6 211.8 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 104 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 105 34. related PartieS The ultimate parent company of the Group is Home Retail Group plc.
The principal subsidiary and associated undertakings at 27 February 2016 are shown in note 35.
Transactions between Home Retail Group plc and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below: associates At 27 February 2016, the amounts owed by its associates to the Group totalled 0.1m 2015: 0.1m, net of accumulated impairment losses totalling 3.9m 2015: 3.9m following the decision to close HH Retail Limited, the Groups associate in China.
Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 8.
During the year, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families.
SUBSidiarY and aSSOciated UndertaKingS Subsidiary and associated undertakings as at 27 February 2016 are listed below.
All continuing subsidiaries and associated undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements.
No Companies Act exemptions have been taken for the preparing or filing of UK statutory accounts.
continuing operations country of direct indirect % of class % of total Undertaking incorporation holding class name held capital held Home Retail Group UK Limited England and Wales Direct Ordinary 100 100 Argos Asia Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Distributors Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Retail Group Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Avebury Group Asia Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 100 ARG Personal Loans Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Extra Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Holdings Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos SURBS Investment Limited England and Wales Indirect Cumulative 100 35 redeemable preference Ordinary 100 65 Argos Card Transactions Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Best Sellers Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Business Solutions Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Superstores Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 ARG Services Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Direct Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Retail Group Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Brand Leaders Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Bed Store & More Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Clearance Bargains Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Chad Valley Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Cliffrange Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Financial Recovery Services Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 First Stop Stores Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Global Guernsey Limited Guernsey Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Habitat Retail Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group Nominees Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group UK Service Company Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group Finance LLP England and Wales Indirect Partnership 100 100 interest Home Retail Group Card Services Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group Holdings Overseas Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group Pension Scheme Nominees Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Store & More Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 105 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 106 Annual Report 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2016 35.
SUBSidiarY and aSSOciated UndertaKingS CONTINUED country of direct indirect % of class % of total Undertaking incorporation holding class name held capital held Home Retail Group Procurement Consultancy Shanghai China Indirect Registered 100 100 capital Limited Home Retail Group Cyprus Limited Cyprus Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group Guernsey LP Guernsey Indirect Partnership 100 100 interest HH Retail Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 49 Unit 3513, 35 F, The Centre, 99 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong Home Retail Group Asia Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Argos Retail Group Asia Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Asia Limited Hong Kong Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group Private India Limited India Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Retail Group Jersey Limited Jersey Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Jungle.
com Holdings Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Jungle.
com Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Jungle Online England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 50 50 Premier Incentives Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Stanhope Finance Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Software Warehouse Holdings Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Shanghai HH Retail Co Limited China Indirect Ordinary 100 49 Room 1402, No 2 Building, 14th Floor, No 355 Guoding Road, Yangpu District, Shanghai, China The below subsidiaries and associated undertakings were disposed of as part of the Homebase sale on 27 February 2016 and therefore have been consolidated in the income statement up to the point of disposal but excluded from the balance sheet as at 27 February 2016. discontinued operations address of the direct indirect % of class Undertaking undertaking holding class name held % of capital Beddington House No.
4 Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Beddington House Holdings Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Fifthgrange Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Focal Point Lighting Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Hampden Group Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Homebase Card Handling Services Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Homebase Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Homebase House & Garden Centre Limited Republic of Ireland Indirect Deferred 100 7 Ordinary 100 93 Iconford Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Index Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Homebase Spend & Save Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Homebase NI Limited Northern Ireland Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Homebase Group Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary-A 7.5 7 Ordinary-B 71.2 71 Ordinary-C 17.8 18 Ordinary-D 3.0 3 Ordinary-E 0.5 1 Homebase Group 2000 Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Homebase Holdings Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Preference 100 0 Home Charm Group Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Home Charm Group Trustees Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Homebase Direct Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 106 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 107 address of the direct indirect % of class Undertaking undertaking holding class name held % of capital MI Home Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Modern Interiors Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Sandfords Limited England and Wales Indirect Founder 100 37 Ordinary 100 63 Trend Decor Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Texas Homecare NI Limited Northern Ireland Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Texas Homecare Installation Services Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Texas Installations Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Texas Homecare Limited England and Wales Indirect Non-cumulative Preference 100 50 Ordinary 100 50 Texas Services Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Texas NI Limited Northern Ireland Indirect Ordinary 100 100 Quickinstant Limited England and Wales Indirect Ordinary 100 100 registered addresses Unless stated otherwise, the registered address for related undertakings within each country of incorporation is outlined below.
country of incorporation registered address England and Wales Avebury, 489-499 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, MK9 2NW China Room 10-13, 13th Floor, Bank of China Tower, No.
200 Yin Cheng M Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai, China Cyprus 8 Michalaki Karaoli Street, Anemomylos Building, 4th Floor, Office 401, 1504, Nicosia, Cyprus Guernsey Maison Trinity, Trinity Square, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4AT Hong Kong Suite 1608-1613, Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Hong Kong India B-7, Om Parswanath Apartments, Desai & Sheth Nagar, Sai Baba Nagar, Borivali W, Mumbai, 400092, India Jersey Ogier House, The Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG Northern Ireland 21 Arthur Street, Belfast, BT1 4GA Republic of Ireland Unit C1, Gullivers Retail Park, Ballymun Road, Santry, Dublin, Ireland 36.
POSt Balance SHeet eventS On 1 April 2016, the Board recommended an offer from J Sainsbury plc for the acquisition of Home Retail Group plc.
Under the terms of the offer, Home Retail Group shareholders will be entitled to receive the following for each Home Retail Group share: 0.321 new Sainsburys shares: and 55.0 pence in cash In addition, Home Retail Group shareholders will also be entitled to the following payments, which together form the proposed capital return: 25.0 pence per share, reflecting the 200m return to shareholders in respect of the Homebase sale: and 2.8 pence per share in lieu of a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 27 February 2016.
As a result, a final dividend will not be paid.
