Financial statements Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Notes to financial statements The analysis of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date was as follows: Fair value of assets 2016 2015 m m Equity instruments 11.8 12.6 Diversified growth funds 3.2 3.4 Debt instruments 8.4 Liability driven investment funds 10.1 Other 3.6 3.7 28.7 28.1 The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the scheme during the forthcoming financial year is 2.0m FY16: actual 1.7m plus any Pension Protection Fund levy payable.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements note 48.
Trading transactions Group companies purchased services of 0.1m FY15: 0.3m from Harpin Limited and 0.3m FY15: nil from Harpin Parkin Ltd.
Both companies are not members of the Group, however they are both related parties because they are controlled and jointly controlled respectively by Richard Harpin, Chief Executive Officer of the Group and Director of the parent company of the Group.
There was 0.3m outstanding to Harpin Parkin Limited on 31 March 2016 FY15: nil.
Provision of services to and the purchase of services from related parties were made at arms length prices.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors and members of the Executive Committee, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration report.
