Financial statements Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Notes to financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2016 1.
General information HomeServe plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is Cable Drive, Walsall, WS2 7BN.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments that are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period as explained in note 38.
Adoption of new or revised standards and accounting policies The following accounting standards have been adopted in the year: Amendments to IAS19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Amendments to IAS27 Equity method in Separate Financial Statements IFRIC21 Levies Amendments to IAS16 & IAS41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS16 & IAS38 C larification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IFRS11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interest in Joint Operations Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle All accounting standards listed above have been adopted but their adoption has not had any material impact on the amounts reported in this consolidated set of financial statements.
HomeServe plc | 109 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes to financial statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Standards in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective not all of which have been endorsed by the EU : IFRS9 Financial Instruments IFRS14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS16 Leases Amendments to IFRS10, IFRS12 I nvestment Entities and IAS28 Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to IAS12 R ecognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS7 Disclosure Initiative The implementation of IFRS9 may impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial Instruments.
The implementation of IFRS15 will have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures, IFRS16 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of leases.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS9, IFRS15 and IFRS16 until a detailed review has been completed.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in the future years.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the strategic report.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups budget, forecast and cash flows for 2017 and concluded that they are in line with expectations.
In addition the Directors have reviewed the Groups position in respect of material uncertainties and have concluded that there are no items that would affect going concern or that should be separately disclosed.
The Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out on the page opposite: 110 | HomeServe plc Financial statements Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Notes to financial statements Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company made up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity, is exposed or has rights to variable return from its involvement with the investee, and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred in operating costs.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period see below adjustments.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Any adjustments to contingent consideration for acquisitions made prior to 31 March 2010 which result in an adjustment to goodwill continue to be accounted for under IFRS3 2004 and IAS27 2005.
HomeServe plc | 111 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes to financial statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised at cost as an asset at the date control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if there is an indication that it may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash generating unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT, Insurance Premium Tax and other sales related taxes.
Revenue recorded by the Group includes commissions receivable in the Groups role as an intermediary in the policy sale and administration process.
Any third-party costs incurred on behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement, or where the Groups role is only as an intermediary in the cash collection process, are not included in revenue.
Consequently, on the sale of a policy, gross revenue consists of only a component of the overall policy price, representing the commission receivable for the marketing and sale of the policy, stated net of sales related taxes.
112 | HomeServe plc Financial statements Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Notes to financial statements Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate arrangements that can be provided to customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an optional extra, revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual contract.
Accordingly, revenue is recognised on the sale of a policy except where an obligation exists to provide future services, typically claims handling and policy administration services.
In these situations, a proportion of revenue, sufficient to cover future claims handling costs and margin, is deferred over the life of the policy, as deferred income.
The assessment of future claims handling takes account of the expected numbers of claims and the estimated cost of handling those claims, which are validated through experience of historical actual costs.
The deferred revenue is released over the expected profile of anticipated claims over the policy period.
The deferral also includes a profit element to recognise the performance of these services in the future.
Revenue on sales of franchises is recognised when the obligations to the franchisee are complete.
Revenue on the sale of new franchise licences is recognised upon the signing of the related franchise agreement.
These franchise fees are non-refundable and primarily relate to initial set-up services.
Repair revenue relates to repairs undertaken on behalf of underwriters subject to separate contractual arrangements.
Such revenue is recognised on completion of the repair.
Annual service revenue is recognised on completion of the annual service.
Ongoing service revenue is recognised in equal instalments over the life of the policy.
Marketing expenses Costs incurred in respect of marketing activity, including for example, direct mail and inbound outbound telephone costs, which is undertaken to acquire or renew a policy, are charged to the income statement in the period in which the related marketing campaign is performed.
Marketing expenses also include payments made to Affinity Partners in recognition of their support for the Groups selling and policy renewal activities.
The terms of their support and related payments are included in contractual agreements with each Affinity Partner.
Amounts incurred upon the sale and renewal of an individual policy by the Group, referred to as Affinity Partner Commissions, are recognised as an operating expense when individual policies incept or renew.
Commissions are payable to Affinity Partners only when the Group has collected the premium due on behalf of the third party underwriter from the policy holder.
HomeServe plc | 113 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes to financial statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies except for those that are designated as long term equity investments, are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date with changes taken to the income statement.
Foreign exchange translation movements on monetary assets that are designated as long-term equity investments are transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Borrowings in foreign currencies are treated as monetary liabilities and are translated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange rate movements on foreign currency borrowings are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Foreign currency borrowings are not treated as hedges of net investments.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
Exchange movements, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such cumulative exchange movements are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
114 | HomeServe plc Financial statements Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Notes to financial statements Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging all operating costs, but before investment income and finance costs.
Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses and the return on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Re-measurement recorded in the statement of comprehensive income is not recycled.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and is otherwise amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Any retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Any tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
HomeServe plc | 115 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes to financial statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Taxation continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Buildings 25 50 years Furniture, fixtures and equipment 5 7 years Computer equipment 3 7 years Motor vehicles 3 years with 25% residual value Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Intangible assets Acquisition intangible assets Acquired access rights relate to the contractual agreements entered into with the former owners of businesses acquired as part of business combinations.
These agreements set out the contractual terms of the Affinity Partnership and provide the contractual framework within which the Group markets, sells and renews policies with the individual customers of the Affinity Partner.
Acquired access rights are recorded at fair value by using the estimated and discounted incremental future cash flows resulting from the relationship.
Acquired access rights are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are in the range of 3 15 years.
116 | HomeServe plc Financial statements Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Notes to financial statements Acquired customer databases represent the value attributable to the portfolios of renewable customer policies that exist at the date of acquisition and are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination.
Acquired customer databases are recorded at fair value using the estimated and discounted incremental future cash flows resulting from the future renewal of the portfolio of acquired policies over their estimated residual life.
Acquired customer databases are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are in the range of 3 15 years.
Other intangible assets Access rights arise from the contractual agreements with Affinity Partners which provide the contractual framework within which the Group markets, sells and renews policies with the individual customers of the Affinity Partner.
Access rights are valued at the discounted present value of the contractually committed payments, where such payments are not related to the success or otherwise of activity under the contractual agreements and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the length of the contractual agreement, up to a maximum of 20 years.
Trademarks represent costs incurred to legally protect the established brand names of the Group.
Trademarks are stated at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives, up to a maximum of 20 years.
Customer databases represent the value attributable to the portfolios of renewable customer policies that have been created by our Affinity Partners through their own sales and marketing activity and subsequently purchased by the Group.
Such customer databases are recorded at their fair value based on the amount paid to the Affinity Partner.
These customer databases are amortised on a straight line basis over the remaining term of the Affinity Partner marketing agreement, which are in the range of 3 10 years.
Computer software and the related licences are stated at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives of 3 7 years.
Investments At each balance sheet date the Group conducts a fair value assessment of its investments, the difference between the fair value and carrying value is charged or credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income accordingly.
HomeServe plc | 117 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes to financial statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is measured on a first-in, first-out FIFO basis.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified either at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL or loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
118 | HomeServe plc Financial statements Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Notes to financial statements Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Borrowings Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are stated at amortised cost and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equitysettled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Groups ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value through Save As You Earn schemes.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes model or Monte Carlo simulation models depending on the type of scheme.
