Supplementary information Introduction Additional share capital information This section provides additional information as at 31 December 2016.
References in this section to the Articles are to the Companys Articles of Association as at the date of this report, copies of which are available a Structure of share capital from the Registrar of Companies or on request from the Company The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into Secretary.
ordinary shares of 25 pence each, which are in registered form.
References in this section to the Companies Act are to the Companies Further information on the Companys share capital is provided in note Act 2006.
27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Share capital b Rights and obligations attaching to shares Issued share capital The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are described in full in the The issued share capital of the Company as at 1 January 2016 was Articles.
505,571,505 ordinary shares of 25 pence each shares.
During the year In summary, on a show of hands and on a poll at a general meeting or a total of 1,660,805 shares were issued following the vesting of the first class meeting, every member present in person or, subject to the below, tranche of awards granted under the Companys Restricted Share Plan by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
However, in the case taking the issued share capital, as at 31 December 2016, to 507,232,310 of a vote on a show of hands, where a proxy has been appointed by shares.
more than one member, the proxy has one vote for and one vote against The Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust the Trust is an employee if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the share trust established to hold shares on trust for the benefit of resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their The Trustee of the Trust has absolute discretion to vote or abstain from rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general voting in relation to the shares held by it from time to time and in doing meeting or class meeting.
A member that is a corporation is entitled to so may take into account the interests of current and future appoint more than one individual to act on its behalf at a general beneficiaries and other considerations.
meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
Substantial shareholdings c Transfer of shares As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified of the The relevant provisions of the Articles state that: following interests in the Companys shares in accordance with Chapter registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and the circumstances set out in the CREST Regulations and where, in the Transparency Rules: case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to Percentage of Percentage of whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four: Number of voting rights voting rights ordinary shares indirect direct the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, decline to register any 1 Eduardo Hochschild 274,065,373 54.03% transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Directors may Vanguard Precious Metals also decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to a and Mining Fund 29,550,423 5.83% certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: 1 The shareholding of Mr Eduardo Hochschild is held through Pelham Investment i is duly stamped if required and is accompanied by the relevant Corporation.
share certificate s and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Directors may reasonably require: and ii is in respect of only The Company has been notified of the following additional interest as at one class of share.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, 7 March 2017. refuse to register a transfer if it is in favour of more than four persons Number of Percentage of Percentage of jointly: and ordinary shares voting rights voting rights indirect direct the Directors may decline to register a transfer of any of the Van Eck Associates Corporation 25,505,678 5.03% Companys shares by a person with a 0.25% interest, if such a person has been served with a notice under the Companies Act after failure Current share repurchase authority to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
The Company obtained shareholder approval at the AGM held in May 2016 for the repurchase of up to 50,557,150 shares which represented, d Restrictions on voting at that time, 10% of the Companys issued share capital the 2016 No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class Authority.
Whilst no purchases have been made by the Company meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her, if any call or other pursuant to the 2016 Authority, it is intended that shareholder consent sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
will be sought on similar terms at this years AGM when the 2016 Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he or she failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
e Deadlines for voting rights Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
Under the Articles, the deadline for delivering proxy forms cannot be earlier than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the meeting for which the proxy is being appointed.
54 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 54 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Shareholder agreements b Long-Term Incentive Plans The Relationship Agreement entered into prior to the IPO between, Awards made under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan, Enhanced amongst others, the Major Shareholder as defined in the Relationship Long-Term Incentive Plan and Restricted Share Plan shall, upon a change Agreement and Eduardo Hochschild collectively the Controlling of control of the Company, vest early unless a replacement award is Shareholders and the Company: made.
Vesting will be prorated to take account of the proportion of the period from the award date to the normal vesting date falling prior to contains provisions restricting the Controlling Shareholders rights to the change of control and the extent to which performance conditions exercise their voting rights to procure an amendment to the Articles and any other conditions applying to the award have been met.
that would be inconsistent with the Relationship Agreement: and Additional disclosures contains an undertaking by the Controlling Shareholders that they will, and will procure that their Associates will, abstain from voting on Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4C R any resolution to approve a transaction with a related party as For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed defined in the FCA Listing Rules involving the Controlling by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following parts of this Annual Report: Shareholders or their Associates.
Section Matter Location Significant agreements 1 Interest capitalised Note 16 to the consolidated A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause financial statements a number of agreements to which the Company, or any of its trading 2 Publication of unaudited financial Not applicable information subsidiaries, is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
Such agreements include commercial trading contracts, joint venture agreements and 4 Details of specified long-term None incentive scheme financing arrangements.
Further details are given below of those arrangements where the impact may be considered to be significant in 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Directors Remuneration Report the context of the Group.
6 Waiver of future emoluments by a As 5 above a $350m 7.75% Senior Notes director Under the terms and conditions of the $350 million 7.75% Senior Notes 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for None due 2021, upon the occurrence of a change of control followed by a cash ratings downgrade which results in a change of control repurchase 8 Item 7 in relation to major None event as defined in the indenture, the Company may be required by subsidiary undertakings each holder of the notes to offer to purchase the notes at a price equal to 9 Parent participation in a placing by a None 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid listed subsidiary interest and additional amounts, if any, to the purchase date.
10 a Contract of significance in which a None director is interested In summary, a Change of Control means the occurrence of one or more 10 b Contract of significance with None of the following events: 1 the disposition other than by way of merger controlling shareholder or consolidation of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company 11 Provision of services by a controlling Directors Report and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person other than i to the shareholder Company or one of its subsidiaries or ii to a Permitted Holder being 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors Report Eduardo Hochschild or a permitted transferee : 2 the consummation of 13 Shareholder waivers of future Directors Report any transaction including any merger or consolidation the result of dividends which is that i any person other than a Permitted Holder becomes the 14 Agreement with controlling Directors Report beneficial owner of more than 50% of the Companys outstanding shareholder Voting Stock as defined or ii the Permitted Holders cease to be the beneficial owners, directly or indirectly, of at least a majority of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company: 3 the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction: 4 the first day on which the majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company cease to be Continuing Directors as defined : 5 the Company shall for any reason cease to be the beneficial owner as defined of 100% of the Voting Stock of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. : or 6 the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. www.
com 55 Supplementary information continued Summary of constitutional and other provisions Relationship Agreement In addition, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement: Appointment of Directors Under the terms of the Articles for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 30% or more in the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to two Non-Executive Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by Directors and to remove such Directors so appointed: and the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 15% or more next following AGM and is then eligible for election by shareholders but of the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to one NonExecutive is not taken into account in determining the Directors or the number of Director and to remove such Director so appointed.
Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of their body to be the holder of any executive office for such period subject to the Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the Companies Act and on such terms as they may determine and may provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Powers of the Directors Each Director is subject to periodic re-election by shareholders at Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by intervals of no more than every three years.
Each Director other than special resolution, the business and affairs of the Company shall be the Chairman and any Director holding executive office shall retire at managed by the Directors who may exercise all such powers of the each AGM following the ninth anniversary of the date on which he was Company.
Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may Approach to appointment adopted by the Board be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by Under law, the Company is entitled to adopt such practices which are no ordinary resolution decide or, in the absence of any such resolution, as less stringent than those set out in the Articles.
Accordingly, the Directors may decide.
Subject to applicable statutes and any notwithstanding the above, the Board has adopted the ordinary resolution of the Company, all unissued shares of the Company recommendation of the UK Corporate Governance Code that all are at the disposal of the Directors.
At each AGM, the Company puts in Directors should seek annual re-election by shareholders.
place annual shareholder authority seeking shareholder consent to allot unissued shares, in certain circumstances for cash, in accordance with 2014 Listing Rules the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committee.
Following the implementation, in 2014, of new Listing Rules by the Repurchase of shares Financial Conduct Authority in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority, as a company with a controlling shareholder, the election or re-election Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may of any independent director must be approved by: i all shareholders of purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Any the Company: and ii the independent shareholders of the Company shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, i. e. any person entitled to vote on the election of directors of the if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the Company that is not a controlling shareholder.
purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is If either shareholder resolution to elect or re-elect the independent specified in the relevant shareholder resolution.
director is defeated, the Company may propose a further resolution to elect or re-elect the proposed independent director provided that the Dividends and distributions further resolution must not be voted on within 90 days from the date of Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by the original vote but it must then be voted on within a period of 30 days ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding from the end of the 90 day period.
It may then be passed by a simple the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may pay majority of the shareholders of the Company voting as a single class.
interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in Removal of Directors the opinion of the Directors, justifies their payment.
If the Directors act in good faith, they are not liable to holders of shares with preferred or The Company may, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of paripassu rights for losses arising from the payment of interim dividends the Companies Act by ordinary resolution of which special notice has on other shares.
been given, remove any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he is prohibited by law from acting as a Director: ii he resigns or offers to resign and the Directors resolve to accept such offer: iii he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: iv a relevant order has been made by any court on the grounds of mental disorder: v he is absent without permission of the Directors from meetings of the Board for six months and the Directors resolve that his office be vacated: vi his resignation is requested in writing by not less than three quarters of the Directors for the time being: or vii in the case of a Director other than the Chairman and any Director holding an executive office, if the Directors shall resolve to require him to resign and within 30 days of being given notice of such notice he so fails to do.
56 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 56 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016
