Financial statements Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Notes to financial statements 35.
Share-based payments During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group had four FY15: five share-based payment schemes, which are described below: i Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP provides for the grant of performance, matching and restricted awards.
The vesting period is three years for all awards.
For the performance and matching awards granted in FY14 and FY15, vesting is dependent upon the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Group over the relevant performance period.
The restricted awards granted in FY14 and FY15 are subject to the continued employment of the participant at the date of vesting.
For the performance and matching awards granted in FY16, 75% of the awards are subject to an Earnings Per Share performance condition over the three year vesting period.
The remaining 25% of awards are subject to Total Shareholder Return conditions measured over the same three year period.
There were no restricted awards in FY16.
ii Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE The SAYE is open to all UK employees and provides for an exercise price equal to the closing quoted market price on the day before the date of grant, less a discretionary discount.
The options can be exercised during a six month period following the completion of either a three or five year savings period.
iii Executive Share Option Plan ESOP The ESOP provided for a grant price equal to the closing quoted market price of the Companys shares on the day before the date of grant.
The vesting period was three years and was dependent upon the real increase in Earnings per Share over the vesting period.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire.
The plan is no longer used and all remaining share options were exercised in the current year.
iv Deferred Bonus Plan DBP The DBP enabled the individual to defer receipt of their annual cash bonus up to a maximum of 100% and to invest an equivalent amount in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The deferred bonus may be matched by the Company dependent upon the Companys relative Total Shareholder Return over a three year period.
The shares lapse if not exercised within 10 years from the date of grant.
HomeServe plc | 147 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes to financial statements continued Year ended 31 March 2016 35.
Share-based payments continued v 2005 Key Executive Incentive Plan KEIP The KEIP provided for a grant price equal to the closing quoted market price of the Companys shares on the day before the date of grant.
The awards vested in two tranches, the first being between three and four years from the date of grant and the second being on the second anniversary of the vesting of the first tranche.
The number of awards vesting was dependent upon the Profit before Tax of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2008 and was subject to a minimum share price criteria during the year ending 31 March 2009.
The plan is no longer used and all remaining share options were exercised during the prior year.
