Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 115 3 Fair value of options granted The fair value of all options granted is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial option valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the model were: 52 weeks to 52 weeks to 24 December 2016 26 December 2015 Dividend yield % 2.0 1.8 Expected life of options yrs 3.0 3.0 25 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Companies which are related parties Transactions between Group companies, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
All transactions between the Group and the Groups pension schemes have been disclosed in note 19.
Remuneration of key management personnel Key management personnel comprise the Board of Directors including Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Committee.
Details of the aggregate remuneration to these personnel are set out below.
The figure disclosed for share-based payments represents the gain realised on the exercise of share options in the year, albeit that those options will have been granted in previous periods.
All figures include any related employers National Insurance.
52 weeks to 52 weeks to 24 December 2016 26 December 2015 m m Short-term employment benefits 6.8 6.2 Share-based payments 9.3 17.8 16.1 24.0 Other transactions with key management personnel There were no other transactions with key management personnel.
26 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT a Capital risk management The Group manages its capital structure to maximise shareholder returns through its debt and equity balance, trading off the benefits of financial leverage with the expected future costs of financial distress.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and short-term investments, the committed borrowing facility discussed further in note 18 - if needed - and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent including issued share capital and reserves as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and in note 21.
The Board of Directors reviews the capital structure regularly, including at the time of preparing annual budgets, preparing three-year corporate plans, and considering corporate transactions.
As part of this review, the Board reviews the costs and the risks associated with each class of capital.
The Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of dividends, new share issues and share buybacks, taking on or issuing new debt or repaying any existing debt.
b Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are in note 2 to the financial statements.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued c Categories of financial instruments 24 December 2016 26 December 2015 m m Financial assets current and non-current Trade receivables 99.2 97.1 Cash and cash equivalents 139.3 166.1 Current asset investments 87.3 60.0 Financial liabilities current and non-current Trade payables 93.9 85.7 d Financial risk management General The Group is exposed in varying degrees to a variety of financial instrument related risks.
The Board has approved and monitors the risk management processes, including documented treasury policies, counterparty limits, controlling and reporting structures.
The types of risk exposure, the way in which these exposures is managed, and the quantification of the level of exposure in the balance sheet is shown below subcategorised into credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
The Group is actively engaged in the management of all of these financial risks in order to minimise their potential adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
The principles, practices and procedures governing the Group-wide financial risk management process have been approved by the Board and are overseen by the Executive Committee.
In turn, the Executive Committee delegates authority to a central treasury function Group Treasury for the practical implementation of the financial risk management process across the Group and for ensuring that the Groups entities adhere to specified financial risk management policies.
Group Treasury regularly reassesses and reports on the financial risk environment, identifying and evaluating financial risks.
The Group does not take positions on derivative contracts and only enters into contractual bank deposit or lending arrangements with counterparties that have appropriate credit ratings, as detailed in section e below.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand, which is the term used in the balance sheet, comprises cash on hand together with demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents, which is the term used in the cash flow statement, comprises cash at bank and in hand, as defined immediately above, together with any current asset investments.
Arrangements are in place to ensure that cash is utilised most efficiently for the ongoing working capital needs of the Groups operating units and to ensure that the Group earns the most advantageous rates of interest available.
The prime consideration in the investment of cash balances is the security of the asset, followed by liquidity and then yield.
Current asset investments consist of UK Government Treasury Bills with an initial term to maturity of up to three months.
These investments are held to maturity and, whilst of lower liquidity than cash, will ensure that the primary Group policy objective of asset security is met.
Management of trade receivables is discussed in note 16.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 117 e Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash, investments, and trade and other receivables.
Our main credit risk is the risk of trade customers defaulting their debts.
We have a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties in order to mitigate the risk of defaults.
We describe our policy on dealing with trade customers in note 16 and note 2.
Trade receivables are spread over a large number of customers, and we do not have a significant exposure to any single counterparty.
We limit our exposure to credit risk on liquid funds and investments through adherence to a policy of minimum short-term counterparty credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies Standard & Poors A-1 and Moodys P-1.
However, when accounts are opened in new territories there may be instances where there is no appropriate partner which meets the Groups credit rating conditions.
In such circumstances, arrangements with a counterparty which does not meet the Groups credit rating criteria can be made only at the specific approval of the Board and is subject to a maximum cash holding limit.
In addition, the Group Treasury function monitors counterparty risk through regular assessments which take account of counterparties key financial ratios, corporate bond and equity prices together with agency credit ratings.
Our maximum exposure to credit risk is presented in the following table: 24 December 2016 26 December 2015 m m Trade receivables net of allowance 99.2 97.1 Cash 139.3 166.1 Current asset investments 87.3 60.0 Total credit risk exposure 325.8 323.2 f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the we could experience difficulties in meeting our commitments to creditors as financial liabilities fall due for payment.
We manage our liquidity risk by using reasonable and  assumptions to forecast the future cashgeneration and working capital requirements of our business and by maintaining sufficient cash and investment reserves, committed borrowing facilities and other credit lines as appropriate.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has agreed an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
We manage liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities as far as is possible.
Included in note 18 is a description of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
In addition, the Strategic Review contains a section describing the interaction of liquidity risk and the going concern review.
Maturity profile of outstanding financial liabilities Our only outstanding financial liabilities are our trade creditors.
These are capital liabilities, with no associated interest, and are payable within one year.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued g Market risk This is the risk that financial instrument fair values will fluctuate owing to changes in market prices.
The significant market risks to which we are exposed are foreign exchange risk, and interest rate risk.
These are discussed further below: Foreign exchange risk We are exposed to foreign exchange risk, principally as a result of operating costs incurred in foreign currencies, and to a lesser extent, from non-Sterling revenues.
Our policy is generally not to hedge such exposures.
The exposure of the our financial assets and liabilities to currency risk is as follows: 24 December 2016 26 December 2015 m m Euro Trade receivables 2.6 1.8 Other receivables 1.9 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 6.9 4.2 Trade payables 18.2 13.2 Other payables 2.1 0.8 8.9 6.6 US Dollar Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.1 Trade payables 0.5 0.7 0.3 0.6 TOTAL 9.2 7.2 Interest rate risk The Group does not have any significant exposure to interest rate risk.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 119 h Financial instrument sensitivities Financial instruments affected by market risk include deposits, trade receivables and trade payables.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments as at its year end to changes in market variables, being exchange rates and interest rates.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the components of net cash and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming that the amount of liability outstanding at the year end date was outstanding for the whole year.
As a consequence, this sensitivity analysis relates to the position as at the balance sheet date.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: Deposits are carried at amortised cost and therefore carrying value does not change as interest rates move.
No sensitivity is provided for accrued interest as accruals are based on pre-agreed interest rates and therefore are not susceptible to further rate movements.
Finance lease interest payments are fixed at the inception of the contract and are not subject to repricing.
They have therefore been excluded from this analysis.
Translation of foreign subsidiaries and operations into the Groups presentation currency have been excluded from the sensitivity.
Using the above assumptions, the following analyses show the illustrative effect on the income statement and equity that would result from reasonably possible changes in the relevant foreign currency or interest rates: Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for floating rate non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
The Group holds no derivative financial instruments.
Fixed rate liabilities are not susceptible to changes in interest rates, and are omitted from the analysis below.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of the liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 50 basis points increase is used as this represents managements assessment of the possible change in interest rates.
At the reporting date, if interest rates had been 50 basis points higher and all other variables were held constant, the Groups net profit and profit and loss reserve would remain the same 2015: remain the same.
For a decrease of 50 basis points, the current year figures would remain the same 2015: remain the same.
Foreign exchange sensitivity As noted above, the Group is mainly exposed to movements in Euro and US dollar exchange rates.
The following information details our sensitivity to a 10% weakening or strengthening in Sterling against the Euro and the US Dollar.
These percentages are the rates used by management when assessing sensitivities internally and represent managements assessment of the possible change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis of our exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date has been determined based on the change taking place at the end of the financial period, and based on the outstanding foreign currency balances at the period end.
24 December 2016 26 December 2015 10% weakening of Sterling to Euro 1.0 0.8 10% strengthening of Sterling to Euro 0.8 0.6 10% weakening of Sterling to US dollar 0.1 10% strengthening of Sterling to US dollar 0.1 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
