128 Notes to the Company financial statements 1 SIGNIFICANT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Howden Joinery Group plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of presentation The Companys accounting period covers the 52 weeks to 24 December 2016.
The comparative period covered the 52 weeks to 26 December 2015.
Basis of accounting These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the UK Companies Act.
The prior period financial statements did not require restatement for material adjustments on adoption of FRS 101 in the current year.
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement or statement of comprehensive income.
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: Statement of Cash Flows and related notes: disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries: comparative period reconciliations for tangible fixed assets and intangible assets: an additional statement of financial position for the beginning of the earliest comparative period as required by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: disclosures in respect of capital management: the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs: and disclosures in respect of Key Management Personnel.
As the Group Financial Statements include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken advantage of the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments.
Investments in subsidiaries These investments are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
2 Explanation of transition to FRS 101 This is the first time that the Company has presented its financial statements under FRS 101.
The following disclosures are required in the year of transition.
The last financial statements under a previous GAAP were for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2015 and the date of transition to FRS 101 was therefore 27 December 2015.
There have been no adjustments on transition to FRS 101.
