Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Howden Joinery Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The registered office Advance Consideration address is 40 Portman Square, London, W1H 6LT.
The nature of the Groups operations are set out in the Strategic Report, and Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property the Groups principal activity is the sale of kitchens and joinery Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 20142016 Cycle products, along with the associated manufacture, sourcing, and IFRS 9: Financial Instruments distribution of these products.
IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts These financial statements are presented in UK pounds sterling, IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers being the currency of the primary economic environment in which IFRS 16: Leases the Group operates.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the other standards Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies and interpretations mentioned above will have no material impact set out in note 2. on the Groups financial statements when the relevant standards come into effect, other than in the case of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES which are discussed below.
Accounting period The Groups accounting period covers the 52 weeks to IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers 24December 2016.
The comparative period covered the We will adopt IFRS 15 in the year to December 2019.
IFRS 15 52weeks to 26 December 2015. has two main effects: it may change the way in which companies recognise revenue, and it may also change the amount of revenue Statement of compliance and basis of recognised.
We do not expect any change to the way we recognise preparation revenue, and we expect a small reduction to the amount of The Groups financial statements have been prepared in revenue that we recognise.
accordance with the IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee The effect of IFRS 15 on the way companies will IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies recognise revenue.
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
They IFRS 15 requires companies to look at their contracts with therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
customers and, where relevant, to break these contracts down into separate performance obligations.
The total revenue under The financial statements have been prepared on the historical each contract has to be allocated between each separate cost basis, and on the going concern basis, as described in the obligation.
Each part of the revenue can only be recognised going concern statement in the Strategic Report.
The principal at a point in time, or over a period of time, which reflects the accounting policies are set out below.
completion of each separate obligation.
Standards in issue but not yet effective The effect of IFRS 15 is expected to be most significant for At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, companies which, for example, sell combined bundles of the following standards, amendments to standards, and both goods and services, and companies who have long-term interpretations, were in issue but not yet effective for the contracts.
The Groups business model does not include any such Group in these financial statements: transactions.
We are an in-stock business, we currently recognise revenue on despatch from our depots, and we do not expect that Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative to change under IFRS 15.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 20122014 Cycle The effect of IFRS 15 on the amount of revenue Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer Plants recognised.
Amendments to IFRS 11: Joint Operations IFRS 15 will require companies to adjust the amount of revenue Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Acceptable Methods of they recognise.
They will have to deduct an amount from each Depreciation and Amortisation periods turnover representing any sales that they estimate the Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate customer wont pay for, and any goods or services which they Financial Statements estimate may be faulty at the point of sale.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities At present, any bad debt costs are deducted from operating costs applying the consolidation exemption in the period in which they are incurred, whereas IFRS 15 requires Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets on that an estimate of these costs is deducted from revenue in the unrealised losses same period as the related sales are recognised.
If any items are Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative found to be faulty at the point of sale, they are typically returned to the selling depot within a few days and the sale is reversed, so it is Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of not anticipated that we will have to adjust turnover materially for Share-Based Payment Transactions these items as a result of adopting IFRS 15.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
