Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Howden Joinery Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The registered office Advance Consideration address is 40 Portman Square, London, W1H 6LT.
The nature of the Groups operations are set out in the Strategic Report, and Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property the Groups principal activity is the sale of kitchens and joinery Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 20142016 Cycle products, along with the associated manufacture, sourcing, and IFRS 9: Financial Instruments distribution of these products.
IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts These financial statements are presented in UK pounds sterling, IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers being the currency of the primary economic environment in which IFRS 16: Leases the Group operates.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the other standards Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies and interpretations mentioned above will have no material impact set out in note 2. on the Groups financial statements when the relevant standards come into effect, other than in the case of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES which are discussed below.
Accounting period The Groups accounting period covers the 52 weeks to IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers 24December 2016.
The comparative period covered the We will adopt IFRS 15 in the year to December 2019.
IFRS 15 52weeks to 26 December 2015. has two main effects: it may change the way in which companies recognise revenue, and it may also change the amount of revenue Statement of compliance and basis of recognised.
We do not expect any change to the way we recognise preparation revenue, and we expect a small reduction to the amount of The Groups financial statements have been prepared in revenue that we recognise.
accordance with the IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee The effect of IFRS 15 on the way companies will IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies recognise revenue.
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
They IFRS 15 requires companies to look at their contracts with therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
customers and, where relevant, to break these contracts down into separate performance obligations.
The total revenue under The financial statements have been prepared on the historical each contract has to be allocated between each separate cost basis, and on the going concern basis, as described in the obligation.
Each part of the revenue can only be recognised going concern statement in the Strategic Report.
The principal at a point in time, or over a period of time, which reflects the accounting policies are set out below.
completion of each separate obligation.
Standards in issue but not yet effective The effect of IFRS 15 is expected to be most significant for At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, companies which, for example, sell combined bundles of the following standards, amendments to standards, and both goods and services, and companies who have long-term interpretations, were in issue but not yet effective for the contracts.
The Groups business model does not include any such Group in these financial statements: transactions.
We are an in-stock business, we currently recognise revenue on despatch from our depots, and we do not expect that Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative to change under IFRS 15.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 20122014 Cycle The effect of IFRS 15 on the amount of revenue Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer Plants recognised.
Amendments to IFRS 11: Joint Operations IFRS 15 will require companies to adjust the amount of revenue Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Acceptable Methods of they recognise.
They will have to deduct an amount from each Depreciation and Amortisation periods turnover representing any sales that they estimate the Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate customer wont pay for, and any goods or services which they Financial Statements estimate may be faulty at the point of sale.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities At present, any bad debt costs are deducted from operating costs applying the consolidation exemption in the period in which they are incurred, whereas IFRS 15 requires Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets on that an estimate of these costs is deducted from revenue in the unrealised losses same period as the related sales are recognised.
If any items are Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative found to be faulty at the point of sale, they are typically returned to the selling depot within a few days and the sale is reversed, so it is Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of not anticipated that we will have to adjust turnover materially for Share-Based Payment Transactions these items as a result of adopting IFRS 15.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Although the Group does not have a history of incurring significant Basis of consolidation bad debt costs, or significant costs related to goods which are Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
faulty at the point of sale, we anticipate that the introduction of Control is defined in this case as the power to govern financial the new IFRS will result in a small amount of costs being deducted and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from the from revenue at the time of sale rather than being charged as subsidiaries activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from costs when incurred.
the date on which control is established until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to IFRS 16: Leases govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity We will adopt IFRS 16 in the year to December 2020.
It will so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
increase both our assets and liabilities by a material amount.
It will also have a timing effect on how we recognise the cost of Revenue recognition leases in our income statement.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for We lease our depot, warehouse, factory and office properties, goods and services, based on despatch of goods or services as well as other assets such as fork lift trucks, lorries, vans provided to customers outside the Group, excluding sales taxes and cars.
Under the current leasing standard, these leases are and discounts.
Interest income is recognised in the income operating leases.
This means that they are not represented on statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
the balance sheet, and that rent payments are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the course of the lease.
When IFRS Inventories 16 comes into effect, we will have to bring these leases onto our Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable balance sheet.
Also, our annual lease expense will no longer be value.
Cost includes an attributable proportion of manufacturing equal to the rent paid for that year.
overheads based on budgeted levels of activity.
Cost is calculated using a standard cost which is regularly updated to reflect average When we bring these leases onto the balance sheet, our gross actual costs.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving, or assets and gross liabilities will each increase by a broadly equal defective items where appropriate.
The addition to gross assets will represent our right to use the leased asset, and the addition to gross Property, plant and equipment liabilities will reflect our obligation to make future lease payments.
On adopting IFRS, the Group adopted the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 to use previous revaluations of freehold properties as the IFRS 16 will also have a timing effect on the annual lease expense, new deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRSs.
which will no longer be equal to the rent paid for that year.
We will have to treat the leases in a similar way to borrowings, and will All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed have to calculate a notional interest charge on them.
This notional cost, as applicable less accumulated depreciation, and less any interest will be calculated in a similar way to that in which interest provision for impairment.
More interest will be charged in the early periods of each lease and less interest will be charged on the Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided to write later periods.
off the difference between their cost and their residual value over their estimated lives on a straight-line basis.
The current range of This means that the annual income statement charge for a lease useful lives is as follows: will not be the same each year.
It will be more than the annual rental payment in the earlier years of a lease, and less than Freehold property 50 years the annual rental payment in the later years of a lease.
Over the course of a lease, the total amounts of interest and capital Leasehold property the period of the lease, or the repayments charged to the income statement will still be equal to individual assets life if shorter the total rental payments under the lease, as they are at present.
Plant, machinery & vehicles 320 years However, there will inevitably be some timing effect which will Fixtures & fittings 215 years depend on the maturity profile and the length of leases which wehave at any one time.
Capital work in progress and freehold land are not depreciated.
The Group has not yet carried out a detailed assessment of the possible range of effects on its balance sheet and income Residual values, remaining useful economic lives and statement at the date of approval of these financial statements.
depreciation periods and methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.
These are included in the income statement.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 89 Intangible assets Deferred tax Our intangible assets represent computer software.
Where Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability computer software is not an integral part of a related item of method.
It is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on the computer hardware, the software is classified as an intangible temporary difference between the carrying amounts of assets asset.
The capitalised costs of software for internal use include and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts external direct costs of materials and services consumed in used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences developing or obtaining the software and payroll and payrollare not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the related costs for employees who are directly associated with initial recognition of assets and liabilities other than in a business and who devote substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of combination that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and these costs ceases no later than the point at which the software differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, to the extent is substantially complete and ready for its intended internal use.
that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount These costs are amortised over their expected useful lives, which of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of are reviewed annually.
The expected useful lives range between realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and three and seven years, depending on the nature of the software.
liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Impairment of assets A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is The carrying amount of the Groups assets is reviewed at probable that future taxable profits will be available against which each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any the asset can be utilised.
The carrying amounts of deferred tax indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, the assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to assets recoverable amount is estimated.
the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit Apart from in the case of trade and other receivables, will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
and inventories, an impairment loss is recognised for the Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
For trade and other receivables and inventories which are Foreign currencies considered to be impaired, the carrying amount is reduced Foreign currency transactions through the use of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable Transactions in foreign currency are translated at the foreign amounts.
Changes in the carrying value of this allowance are exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary recognised in the income statement.
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at Current tax the date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable the income statement.
Foreign operations The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill financial period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, where in the income statement because it excludes items of income or applicable, are translated into sterling at foreign exchange expense that are taxable or deductible in other financial years rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
flows of overseas subsidiaries and the results of joint ventures The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates are translated into sterling on an average exchange rate basis, that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance weighted by the actual results of each month.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the results Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of and net assets of overseas subsidiaries are taken to equity via the dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay statement of comprehensive income.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Leases with predetermined fixed rental increases Provisions The Group has some leases with predetermined fixed rental Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present increases.
These rental increases are accounted for on a straightobligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group line basis over the period of the lease term.
will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount required to settle the obligation.
Borrowing costs Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, period in which they are incurred.
In the case of prepaid loan taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the facility fees, they are capitalised and set against the related obligation, and are discounted to present value where the effect borrowings, and then amortised over the life of the related is material.
Pensions Other payables Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are Other payables are stated at their fair value.
charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Share-based payments The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme.
The The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Groups net obligation in respect of the defined benefit pension payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 that employees have earned in return for their service in the November 2002 that were unvested at the date of the Groups current and prior periods.
That benefit is then discounted to transition to IFRS.
determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate used is selected so as to The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain closely approximate the yield at the balance sheet date on AAemployees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at of the Groups obligations.
Because there are no AA-rated bonds the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is with maturity dates which are as long as those of the Groups expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based retirement benefit obligations, the discount rate is derived using on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
the rate of return of zero-coupon Gilts which have the same maturity as the Groups obligations, to which is added a premium Financial instruments which is calculated to account for the difference in risk between Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Gilts and AA-rated bonds.
The calculation is performed by a Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
Scheme assets contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Current and past service costs are recognised in operating profit Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at and net financing costs include interest on pension scheme their nominal value, as reduced by appropriate allowances for liabilities and assets.
Such allowances are raised based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past experience, or Leased assets known customer circumstances.
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Cash at bank and in hand and Cash and cash equivalents to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Cash at bank and in hand, which is the term used in the balance For property leases, the land and building elements are treated sheet, comprises cash on hand together with demand deposits, separately to determine the appropriate lease classification.
and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an Operating leases insignificant risk of changes in value.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the Cash and cash equivalents, which is the term used in the cash balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the flow statement, comprises cash at bank and in hand, as defined income statement.
immediately above, together with any overdrafts repayable on Lease incentives demand, and any current asset investments with a maturity date Lease incentives primarily include up-front cash payments or rentof less than three months from the balance sheet date.
Lease incentives are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
