Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 115 3 Fair value of options granted The fair value of all options granted is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial option valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the model were: 52 weeks to 52 weeks to 24 December 2016 26 December 2015 Dividend yield % 2.0 1.8 Expected life of options yrs 3.0 3.0 25 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Companies which are related parties Transactions between Group companies, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
All transactions between the Group and the Groups pension schemes have been disclosed in note 19.
Remuneration of key management personnel Key management personnel comprise the Board of Directors including Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Committee.
Details of the aggregate remuneration to these personnel are set out below.
The figure disclosed for share-based payments represents the gain realised on the exercise of share options in the year, albeit that those options will have been granted in previous periods.
All figures include any related employers National Insurance.
52 weeks to 52 weeks to 24 December 2016 26 December 2015 m m Short-term employment benefits 6.8 6.2 Share-based payments 9.3 17.8 16.1 24.0 Other transactions with key management personnel There were no other transactions with key management personnel.
26 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT a Capital risk management The Group manages its capital structure to maximise shareholder returns through its debt and equity balance, trading off the benefits of financial leverage with the expected future costs of financial distress.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and short-term investments, the committed borrowing facility discussed further in note 18 - if needed - and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent including issued share capital and reserves as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and in note 21.
The Board of Directors reviews the capital structure regularly, including at the time of preparing annual budgets, preparing three-year corporate plans, and considering corporate transactions.
As part of this review, the Board reviews the costs and the risks associated with each class of capital.
The Group will balance its overall capital structure through the payment of dividends, new share issues and share buybacks, taking on or issuing new debt or repaying any existing debt.
b Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are in note 2 to the financial statements.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
