Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 91 Net cash Post-employment benefits Net cash, as shown in note 22, comprises cash and cash The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees.
equivalents plus any bank borrowings prepaid loan fees, and any The present value of the schemes liabilities recognised at the finance leases.
balance sheet date is dependent on interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
The net financing charge recognised in the Current asset investments income statement is dependent on the interest rate of high quality From time to time, the Group uses short-term investments in corporate bonds.
Other key assumptions within this calculation UK Gilts as part of its cash management activities.
The Group are based on market conditions or estimates of future events, reviews these investments before entering into them, and, after including mortality rates, as set out in the relevant note to these establishing that the Group has both the intention and the ability financial statements.
to hold these investments to maturity, they are classified as held-to-maturity and are initially recognised at cost, including any Allowances against the carrying value of transaction fees.
inventories The Group reviews the market value of and demand for its Subsequent to initial recognition, these investments are carried at inventories on a periodic basis to ensure that recorded inventory amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Income from is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In assessing these investments is recognised in the income statement on an the ultimate realisation of inventories, the Group is required to effective yield basis.
make judgements as to future demand requirements and to compare these with the current or committed inventory levels.
Financial liabilities and equity Factors that could impact estimated demand and selling prices Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified are the product lifecycles of different ranges, and the extent to according to the substance of the contractual arrangements which they meet builders and end-users requirements.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the income statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS The Group makes judgements and assumptions concerning the future that impact the application of policies and reported amounts.
The resulting accounting estimates calculated using these judgements and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results but are based on historical experience and expectations of future events.
The judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that may have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are discussed below.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
