64 Audit Committee Report continued During the year, the Committee considered the effectiveness AR AR ARE E EAS AS AS O O OF F F SIG SIG SIGN N NIF IF IFI I IC C CANT ANT ANT F F FIN IN INAN AN ANC C CI I IAL AL AL JU JU JUD D DG G GE E EM M ME E ENT NT NT of the Internal Audit function and the Internal Audit plan.
The C C CO O ON N NSIDE SIDE SIDER R RE E ED D D B B BY Y Y TH TH THE E E A A AU U UDI DI DIT T T C C CO O OM M MM M MI I IT T TTE TE TEE E E Committee concluded that the function remained effective, wellD D DU U UR R RIN IN ING G G TH TH THE E E Y Y YE E EAR AR AR led and had a well-defined remit.
An independent review of the The Committee recognises that some areas of accounting require Internal Audit function was last undertaken by PwC in 2012.
In line judgement to be exercised.
In relation to the Groups accounts with the Committees policy to perform an external review of the this year, the principal areas of judgement relate to inventory function every five years, an external review of the Internal Audit obsolescence and actuarial assumptions.
function will be undertaken during 2017.
Valuation of inventory WH WH WHI I IS S STL TL TLE E EBL BL BLO O OWIN WIN WING G G The Groups in stock model necessitates tight management The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for of inventory to ensure comprehensive local availability while employees to have access to a confidential outsourced service, minimising obsolescence and wastage.
The Committee reviewed which allows calls and emails to be received in multiple languages, the results of stock counts and processes to value inventory 24 hours a day.
Complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal including the assumptions behind obsolescence provisions.
controls, auditing issues and related matters are reported to the They also received reports from the external auditor on inventory Audit Committee as appropriate.
The Whistleblowing policy and in considering the appropriateness of provisions held against issues raised and investigated under this policy were formally the carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age of reviewed during the year.
discontinued lines and volumes of continuing lines relative to the expected usage.
E E EX X XTE TE TER R RN N final AL AL A A AU U UDI DI DIT T TO O OR R R The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation Actuarial assumptions and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit in line with The net deficit of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme relevant legislation, ethical standards and guidance.
has increased substantially over the year reflecting the impact of market conditions on key valuation assumptions.
The Committee A A Au u ud d di i it t tor or or e e ef f ff f fe e ec c ct t ti i iv v five e ene ne fines s ss s s considered carefully the appropriateness of these assumptions, To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the the recommendations of external actuaries and the views of the Committee reviewed: external auditors.
In previous years, the Audit Committee considered recoverability The arrangements for ensuring the external auditors of trade debtors to be an area of significant financial judgement.
independence and objectivity: Whilst managements assumptions underlying the bad debt The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and provision continues to be challenged as an area of audit focus, any variations from the plan: the Audit Committee no longer consider these assumptions to be significant to the overall results.
This reflects the effectiveness of The perceptions of the auditor and audit process from key tight credit controls over many years and the consistent record of management personnel in the finance function: predicting recovery rates.
The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their All of the matters considered above were discussed with the handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance The content of the external auditors report on Director and the external auditor.
The Committee is satisfied that internal control.
each of the matters set out above have been fully and adequately addressed by the Executive Committee, appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and the disclosures made in the A A Aud ud udi i it t to o or r r i i in n ndep dep depen en enden den denc c ce e e a a an n nd d d f f fe e ee e es s s Annual Report and Accounts are appropriate.
The Committee recognises that auditor independence is an essential part of the audit framework and the assurance it INTE INTE INTER R RN N final AL AL A A AU U UDI DI DIT T T provides.
To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Committee undertook a comprehensive During the year, the Committee reviewed: review during 2016 encompassing the following: Internal Audits programme of work and resources: A review of the independence of the external auditor and the Results of key audits and other significant findings including arrangements which they have in place to identify, report and the adequacy and timeliness of managements response: manage conflicts of interest: Consideration of the effectiveness of the external auditor The level and nature of assurance activity performed by through a review of their plan of work and the outputs arising Internal Audit: and from the audit: Staffing, reporting and effectiveness of divisional audits.
A review of the changes in key external audit staff for the current year and the arrangements for the day-to-day management of the audit relationship: Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 65 Non-audit services comprise the review of the Interim Report and Consideration of the overall extent of non-audit services provided tax compliance and tax advisory services for which Deloitte have by the external auditor, in addition to case-by-case approval of been the most appropriate provider.
Following regulatory changes, the provision of non-audit services as appropriate: and steps have been taken during the year for tax compliance to be Deliberation of the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor conducted internally and an alternative supplier is being sought for from the market and note taken of the fact that there are no tax advisory services.
contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditor.
The Audit Committee also has a policy in relation to the All relevant fees proposed by the external auditor must be employment of former members of the external audit team.
reported to and approved by the Audit Committee.
At the year end, the external auditor formally confirmed that their independence Le Le Lea a ad d d a a aud ud udi i it t t p p pa a ar r rt t tn n ner er er a a an n nd d d a a aud ud udi i it t t t t ten en ender der der and objectivity had been maintained.
The external audit was last tendered in 2002 which resulted in a change to the Groups external auditor, with Deloitte LLP being P P Po o ol l li i ic c cy f y f y fo o or n r n r no o on n n- - -a a au u ud d di i it s t s t se e er r rvi vi vic c ce e es s s appointed.
In February 2016, following completion of the 2015 The main aims of this policy are to ensure the independence of the external audit, the Audit Committee considered whether it was in auditor in performing the statutory audit and to avoid any conflict the best interests of the Company to re-tender the external audit of interest by clearly detailing the types of work that the auditor at the end of the current lead audit partner rotation cycle.
At that can and cannot undertake.
time, the current lead audit partner, Ed Hanson, had completed four years of a five year cycle.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and updated the policy for non-audit services to bring it into line with the amended As reported in last years Annual Report, the Audit Committee FRC ethical standards and UK Corporate Governance Code determined that the Company would re-tender the external audit application from 25 December 2016.
The regulation substantially and change auditor no later than the conclusion of the subsequent curtails those non-audit services which can be provided by auditor.
five-year lead audit partner cycle in 2021.
However, the Committee Key changes included: agreed to keep the need to re-tender and change auditor under The introduction of a 70% cap of the value of the audit fee for all review during this cycle and this remains its recommendation.
non-audit services calculated on a rolling three-year basis.
In reaching its conclusion, the Committee considered the The inclusion of tax calculation services as one of the category transitional arrangements for mandatory audit tendering and of services upon which is prohibited.
auditor rotation published by the Department for Business, The inclusion of actuarial valuation services in the category of Innovation and Skills in March 2015 which provided that the services which are prohibited.
Company could not enter into or renew its engagement for audit services with Deloitte LLP beyond June 2023, having been engaged The policy specifies the type of non-audit work for which the as external auditor for over eleven but for less than twenty years.
auditor can be engaged without referral to the Audit Committee The Committee was also mindful of the provisions relating to audit for which a case-by-case decision is necessary or from which the tendering in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRCs auditor is excluded.
Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external audit contract The policy aims to ensure that in providing non-audit services the out to tender at least every ten years and that audit tendering auditor does not audit its own work or make management decisions should normally fit the five-year cycle of lead audit partner rotation.
for the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The policy also clarifies The Committee considered a shortlist to succeed Ed Hanson as responsibilities for the agreement of fees payable for non-audit work.
lead audit partner on completion of his five year cycle with the Details of the total fees, including non-audit fees of 344,000, 2016 audit and are pleased to recommend Claire Faulkner to paid during the year to the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, are this role.
Claire has substantial relevant experience as lead audit set out in the chart below and in Note 6 to the consolidated partner of premium listed companies and has been shadowing Ed financialstatements.
through the 2016 year end audit.
The Committee has therefore unanimously recommended to the Board that a proposal be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting that Deloitte LLP be reappointed as external auditor in 2017 and that the Directors be authorised to fix their remuneration.
224k 344k 383k 436k 222010101555 222010101666 Audit Fees Non-Audit Fees Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
