Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB, including interpretations IFRICS issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, and as endorsed by the European Union EU.
At 31 December 2016, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2016 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and HSBCs application of IFRSs results in no differences between IFRSs as issued by the IASB and IFRSs as endorsed by the EU.
Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2016 There were no new standards applied during the year ended 31 December 2016 by HSBC.
The requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value were adopted in the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
As a result, the effects of changes in those liabilities credit risk is presented in other comprehensive income with the remaining effect presented in profit or loss.
In accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRS 9, comparatives have not been restated.
Adoption increased profit before tax by $896m with the opposite effect on other comprehensive income, with no effect on net assets.
During 2016, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Future accounting developments Minor amendments to IFRSs The IASB has published a number of minor amendments to IFRSs in the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 and in a series of stand-alone amendments, one of which has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
HSBC has not early adopted any of the amendments effective after 31 December 2016 and it expects they will have an insignificant effect, when adopted, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
Major new IFRSs The IASB has published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
IFRS9 and IFRS 15 have been endorsed for use in the EU and IFRS 16 has not yet been endorsed.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is the comprehensive standard to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and includes requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets andliabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
Classification and measurement The classification and measurement of financial assets will depend on how these are managed the entitys business model and their contractual cash flow characteristics.
These factors determine whether the financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fairvalue through other comprehensive income FVOCI or fair value through profit or loss FVPL.
The combined effect of the application of the business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics tests may result in some differences in the population of financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair value compared with IAS 39.
However, based on an assessment of financial assets performed to date and expectations around changes to balance sheet composition, HSBC expects that the overall impact of any change will not be significant.
For financial liabilities designated to be measured at fair value, gains or losses relating to changes in the entitys own credit risk are to be included in other comprehensive income.
Impairment The impairment requirements apply to financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI, and lease receivables and certain loancommitments and financial guarantee contracts.
At initial recognition, an impairment allowance or provision in the case of commitments and guarantees is required for expected credit losses ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months 12-month ECL.
In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, an allowance or provision is required for ECL resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial instrument lifetime ECL.
Financial assets where ECL is recognised are in stage 1: financial assets that are considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk are in stage 2: and financial assets for which there is objective evidence of impairment, so are considered to be in default or otherwise credit impaired, are in stage 3.
The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are required to be unbiased and probability-weighted, and should incorporate all available information relevant to the assessment, including information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of economic conditions at the reporting date.
In addition, the estimation of ECL should take into account the time value of money.
As a result, the recognition and measurement of impairment is intended to be more forwardlooking than under IAS 39, and the resulting impairment charge will tend to be more volatile.
IFRS 9 will also tend to result in an increase in the total level of impairment allowances, since all financial assets will be assessed for at least 12-month ECL and the population of financial assets to which lifetime ECL applies is likely to be larger than the population for which there is objective evidence of impairment in accordance with IAS 39.
194 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Hedge accounting The general hedge accounting requirements aim to simplify hedge accounting, creating a stronger link with risk management strategy and permitting hedge accounting to be applied to a greater variety of hedging instruments and risks.
However they do not explicitly address macro hedge accounting strategies, which are particularly important for banks.
As a result, IFRS 9 includes an accounting policy choice to remain with IAS 39 hedge accounting.
Based on the analysis performed to date, HSBC expects to exercise the accounting policy choice to continue IAS 39 hedge accounting and therefore is not currently planning to change hedge accounting, although it will implement the revised hedge accounting disclosures required by the related amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Transition The classification and measurement and impairment requirements are applied retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at the date of initial application, with no requirement to restate comparative periods.
HSBC does not intend to restate comparatives.
The mandatory application date for the standard as a whole is 1 January 2018, but it is possible to apply the revised presentation for certain liabilities measured at fair value from an earlier date.
HSBC has early adopted the revised presentation of fair value gains and losses relating to an entitys own credit risk on certain liabilities in the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings from 1January 2016, and since interim financial statements have been issued during 2016 without adoption, will adopt new requirements in the consolidated financial statements from 1 January 2017.
If this presentation was applied in the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016, the effect would be to increase profit before tax with the opposite effect on other comprehensive income based on the change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBCs credit risk for the year, with no effect on net assets.
Further information on the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk, including HSBCs credit risk, is disclosed in Note 24.
HSBC is assessing the impact that the impairment requirements will have on the financial statements.
The joint Global Risk and Global Finance IFRS 9 Implementation Programme continues to progress with the documentation of Group accounting policy, the development of operating and system target operating models and the development, build and testing of risk modelling methodologies for the calculation of impairment nearing completion.
HSBC intends to perform a parallel run during the second half of 2017 to gain a better understanding of the potential effect of the new standard and for the governance framework to gain experience.
HSBC intends to quantify the potential impact of IFRS 9 once it is practicable to provide reliable estimates, which will be no later than in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017.
Until reliable estimates of the impact are available, particularly on the interaction with the regulatory capital requirements, further information on the expected impact on the financial position and on capital planning cannot be provided.
Further information about the application of IFRS 9 by HSBC is available on pages 347 to 352 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The original effective date of IFRS 15 has been delayed by one year and the standard is now effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early application permitted.
IFRS 15 provides a principles-based approach for revenue recognition, and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for performance obligations as they are satisfied.
The standard should be applied retrospectively, with certain practical expedients available.
HSBC has assessed the impact of IFRS 15 and expects that the standard will have no significant effect, when applied, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
IFRS 16 Leases In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases with an effective date for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 results in lessees accounting for most leases within the scope of the standard in a manner similar to the way in which finance leases are currently accounted for under IAS 17 Leases.
Lessees will recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding financial liability on the balance sheet.
The asset will be amortised over the length of the lease and the financial liability measured at amortised cost.
Lessor accounting remains substantially the same as under IAS 17.
HSBC is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16, and it is not practicable to quantify the effect at the date of the publication of these financial statements.
Existing operating lease commitments are set out in Note 34. d Foreign currencies HSBCs consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business.
The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings functional currency because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date except non-monetary assets andliabilities measured at historical cost that are translated using the rate of exchange at the initial transaction date.
Exchange differences are included in other comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying item is recognised.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, liabilities and results of foreign operations whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
e Presentation of information Certain disclosures required by IFRSs have been included in the audited sections of this Annual Report and Accounts as follows: segmental disclosures are included in the Report of the Directors: Financial Review on pages 30 to 63: disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in theReport of the Directors: Risk on pages 64 to 126: capital disclosures are included in the Report of the Directors: Capital on pages 127 to 131: and HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 195 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements disclosures relating to HSBCs securitisation activities and structured products are included in the Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 64 to 126.
In accordance with HSBCs policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand the Groups performance, financial position and changes to them, the information provided in the Notes on the Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules.
In addition, HSBC follows the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure the BBA Code.
The BBA Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
In line with the principles of the BBA Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
f Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions.
In view of the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items highlighted as the critical accounting estimates and judgements in section 1.2 below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which managements estimates are based, resulting in materially different conclusions from those reached by management for the purposes of these Financial Statements.
Managements selection of HSBCs accounting policies which contain critical estimates and judgements reflects the materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved.
g Segmental analysis HSBCs chief operating decision-maker is the Group Chief Executive, supported by the Group Management Board GMB, which operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board, and operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Group Chief Executive and the GMB.
Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Segmental income and expenses include transfers between segments, and these transfers are conducted at arms length.
Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
h Going concern The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
1.2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Consolidation and related policies Investments in subsidiaries Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when it holds, directly or indirectly, the necessary voting rights to pass resolutions by the governing body.
In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors, including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct relevant activities and whether power is held as agent or principal.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either atfair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
This election is made foreach business combination.
HSBC Holdings investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses.
Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
HSBCs CGUs are based on geographical regions subdivided by global business, except for Global Banking and Markets, for which goodwill is monitored on a global basis.
Impairment testing is performed at least once a year, or whenever there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of a CGU with its carrying amount.
Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within such a CGU.
The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The review of goodwill for impairment reflects managements best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as follows: The future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts are compared with actual performance and verifiable economic data, but they reflect managements view of future business prospects at the time of the assessment.
The rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their valuation and are based on the costs of capital assigned to individual CGUs.
The cost of capital percentage is generally derived from a capital asset pricing model, which incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates and economic conditions beyond managements control, are subject to uncertainty and require the exercise of significant judgement.
The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market conditions.
In such circumstances, management retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than once a year when indicators of impairment exist to ensure that the assumptions on which the cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect current market conditions and managements best estimate of future business prospects.
196 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HSBC sponsored structured entities HSBC is considered to sponsor another entity if, in addition to ongoing involvement with the entity, it had a key role in establishing that entity or in bringing together relevant counterparties so the transaction that is the purpose of the entity could occur.
HSBC is generally not considered a sponsor if the only involvement with the entity is merely administrative.
Interests in associates and joint arrangements Joint arrangements are investments in which HSBC, together with one or more parties, has joint control.
Depending on HSBCs rights and obligations, the joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a joint venture.
HSBC classifies investments inentities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint arrangements, as associates.
HSBC recognises its share of the assets, liabilities and results in a joint operation.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
The attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates are included in the consolidated financial statements of HSBC based on either financial statements made up to 31 December or prorated amounts adjusted for any material transactions or events occurring between the date the financial statements are available and 31 December.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are assessed at each reporting date and tested for impairment when there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is not tested separately for impairment but is assessed as part of the carrying amount of the investment.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Impairment testing of investments in associates involves significant judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from continuing to hold the investment.
The most significant judgements relate to the impairment testing of our investment in Bank of Communications Co. Limited BoCom.
Key assumptions used in estimating BoComs value in use, the sensitivity of the value in use calculation to different assumptions and a sensitivity analysis that shows the changes in key assumptions that would reduce the excess of value in use over the carrying amount the headroom to nil are described in Note 17. b Income and expense Operating income Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments, excluding those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value are recognised in Interest income and Interest expense in the income statement using the effective interest method.
However, as an exception to this, interest on debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated under the fair value option and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities are included in interest expense.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Non-interest income and expense Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers.
Fee income is accounted for as follows: income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed for example, fees arising from negotiating a transaction, such as the acquisition of shares, for a third party : and income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided for example, asset management services.
Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
This is the ex-dividend date for listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders approve the dividend for unlisted equity securities.
Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, including derivatives that are managed in conjunction with those financial assets and liabilities, and liabilities under investment contracts.
Interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of those financial instruments are also included, except for interest arising from debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities, which is recognised in Interest expense.
The accounting policies for insurance premium income are disclosed in Note 1.2 f. c Valuation of financial instruments All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid totransfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is generally its transaction price that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
However, if there is a difference between the transaction price and the fair value of financial instruments whose fair value is based ona quoted price in an active market or a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, HSBC recognises the difference as a trading gain or loss at inception day 1 gain or loss.
In all other cases, the entire day 1 gain or loss is deferred and recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction until the transaction matures or is closed out, the valuation inputs become observable or HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction.
The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on an individual basis.
However, in cases where HSBC manages a group of financial assets and liabilities according to its net market or credit risk exposure, the fair value of the group of financial instruments is measured on a net basis but the underlying financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRS offsetting criteria.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 197 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Critical accounting estimates and judgements The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data.
However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them the measurement of fair value is more judgemental.
An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant proportion of the instruments inception profit or greater than 5% of the instruments valuation is driven by unobservable inputs.
Unobservable in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the price at which an arms length transaction would be likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there is no data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value consensus pricing data may, for example, be used.
d Financial instruments measured at amortised cost Loans and advances to banks and customers, held-to-maturity investments and most financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
The carrying value of these financial assets at initial recognition includes any directly attributable transactions costs.
If the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced, such as in the case of some leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the difference is deferred and recognised over the life of the loan as described in paragraph c above through the recognition of interest income, unless the loan becomes impaired.
HSBC may commit to underwriting loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time.
When the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative.
When HSBC intends tohold the loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss.
Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
Losses which may arise from future events are not recognised.
Individually assessed loans and advances The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing impairment include thesize of the loan, the number of loans in the portfolio, the importance of the individual loan relationship and how this is managed.
Loans that are determined to be individually significant will be individually assessed for impairment, except when volumes of defaults and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective methodology.
Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers, are for larger amounts and are managed on an individual basis.
For these loans, HSBC considers on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired.
The determination of the realisable value of security is based on the most recently updated market value at the time the impairment assessment is performed.
The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices, though adjustments are made to reflect local conditions such as forced sale discounts.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan, which include expected future receipts of contractual interest, at the loans original effective interest rate or an approximation thereof, and comparing the resultant present value with the loans current carrying amount.
Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed collectively to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment or for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, generally retail lending portfolios.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for a collective impairment assessment.
This assessment captures impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
When information becomes available which identifies losses on individual loans within a group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed individually.
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine collective impairment losses for homogeneous groups of loans not considered individually significant.
The methods used to calculate collective allowances are set out below: When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology, which employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to reliably estimate the amount of the loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the balance sheet date.
Individual loans are grouped using ranges of past due days, and statistical estimates are made of the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency and become irrecoverable.
Additionally, individual loans are segmented based on their credit characteristics, such asindustry sector, loan grade or product.
In applying this methodology, adjustments are made to estimate the periods of time between a loss event occurring, for example because of a missed payment, and its confirmation through write-off known as the loss identification period.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain highly developed markets, models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience, or a discounted cash flow model.
Where a basic formulaic approach is undertaken, the period between a loss event occurring and its identification is estimated by local management, and is typically between six and 12 months.
198 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Write-off of loans and advances Loans and the related impairment allowance accounts are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security.
In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier.
Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly.
The write-back is recognised in the income statement.
Assets acquired in exchange for loans When non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are held for sale, these assets are recorded as Assets held for sale.
Renegotiated loans Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as up-to-date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of payments required has been received.
Where collectively assessed loan portfolios include significant levels of renegotiated loans, these loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective impairment assessment to reflect their risk profile.
Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired.
The carrying amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition.
A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on substantially different terms or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial instrument.
Any new loans that arise following derecognition events will continue to be disclosed as renegotiated loans andare assessed for impairment as above.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Loan impairment allowances represent managements best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
Management isrequired to exercise judgement in making assumptions and estimates when calculating loan impairment allowances on both individually and collectively assessed loans and advances.
Collective impairment allowances are subject to estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not practicable to identify losses on an individual loan basis due to the large number of individually insignificant loans in the portfolio.
The estimation methods include the use of statistical analyses of historical information, supplemented with significant management judgement, to assess whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of incurred losses is likely to be greater or less than historical experience.
Where changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions result in the most recent trends in portfolio risk factors being not fully reflected in the statistical models, risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience.
Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographical concentrations, loan product features, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and other influences on customer payment patterns.
Different factors are applied in different regions and countries to reflect local economic conditions, laws and regulations.
The methodology and the assumptions used in calculating impairment losses are reviewed regularly in the light of differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
For individually assessed loans, judgement is required in determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred and, if so, the measurement of the impairment allowance.
In determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating all relevant information on indicators of impairment, including the consideration of whether payments are contractually past due and the consideration of other factors indicating deterioration in the financial condition and outlook of borrowers affecting their ability to pay.
A higher level of judgement is required for loans to borrowers showing signs of financial difficulty in market sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly where the likelihood of repayment is affected by the prospects for refinancing or the sale of a specified asset.
For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, management determines the size of the allowance required based on a range of factors such as the realisable value of security, the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy, the viability of the customers business model and the capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations.
HSBC might provide loan forbearance to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the contractual payment terms of loans in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities or avoid default or repossession.
Where forbearance activities are significant, higher levels of judgement and estimation uncertainty are involved in determining their effects on loan impairment allowances.
Judgements are involved in differentiating the credit risk characteristics of forbearance cases, including those which return to performing status following renegotiation.
Where collectively assessed loan portfolios include significant levels of loan forbearance, portfolios are segmented to reflect the different credit risk characteristics of forbearance cases, and estimates are made of the incurred losses inherent within each forbearance portfolio segment.
Forbearance activities take place in both retail and wholesale loan portfolios, but our largest concentration is in the US, in HSBC Finances CML run-off portfolio.
The exercise of judgement requires the use of assumptions which are highly subjective and very sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes in economic and credit conditions across a large number of geographical areas.
Many of the factors have a high degree of interdependency and there is no single factor to which our loan impairment allowances as a whole are sensitive.
Non-trading reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price repos, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Securities purchased under commitments to resell reverse repos are not recognised on the balance sheet and an asset is recorded in respect of the initial consideration paid.
Non-trading repos and reverse repos are measured at amortised cost.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price or between the purchase and resale price is treated as interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 199 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements e Financial instruments measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised on the trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements to purchase those instruments, and are normally derecognised when the securities are either sold or redeemed.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income until the assets are either sold or become impaired.
Upon disposal, the cumulative gains or losses in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as Gains less losses from financial investments.
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are assessed at each balance sheet date for objective evidence of impairment.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement within Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions for debt instruments and within Gains less losses from financial investments for equities.
Available-for-sale debt securities In assessing objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC considers all available evidence, including observable data or information about events specifically relating to the securities which may result in a shortfall in the recovery of future cash flows.
A subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement when there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of decreases in the estimated future cash flows.
Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, or the instrument is no longer impaired, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Available-for-sale equity securities A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity below its cost is objective evidence of impairment.
In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original cost of the asset at initial recognition.
In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the continuous period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial recognition.
All subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement to the extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred.
Impairment losses recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial instruments designated at fair value Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below, and are so designated irrevocably at inception: the use of the designation removes or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch: when a group of financial assets, liabilities or both is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy: and where financial instruments contain one or more non-closely related embedded derivatives.
Designated financial assets are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when the rights to the cash flows expire or are transferred.
Designated financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on settlement date, and are normally derecognised when extinguished.
Subsequent changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value.
Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are: Long-term debt issues The interest and or foreign exchange exposure on certain fixed rate debt securities issued has been matched with the interest and or foreign exchange exposure on certain swaps as part of a documented risk management strategy.
Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked and non-linked investment contracts A contract under which HSBC does not accept significant insurance risk from another party is not classified as an insurance contract, other than investment contracts with discretionary participation features 'DPF', but is accounted for as a financial liability.
See Note 1.2 f for investment contracts with DPF and contracts where HSBC accepts significant insurance risk.
Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts issued by insurance subsidiaries and the corresponding financial assets are designated at fair value.
Liabilities are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts.
The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management services are provided.
Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, interest rates or other indices.
Derivatives are recognised initially and are subsequently measured at fair value.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative: this includes embedded derivatives which are bifurcated from the host contract when they meet the definition of a derivative on a stand-alone basis.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in Net trading income.
Gains and losses on derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value are reported in Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value together with the gains and losses on the economically 200 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 hedged items.
Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated at fair value, the contractual interest is shown in Interest expense together with the interest payable on the issued debt.
Hedge accounting When derivatives are held for risk management purposes they are designated in hedge relationships where the required criteria for documentation and hedge effectiveness are met.
HSBC enters into fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations as appropriate to the risk being hedged.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk.
If a hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued: the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case it is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives is recognised in other comprehensive income: the ineffective portion of the change in fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement within Net trading income.
The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
In hedges of forecast transactions that result in recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, previous gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
When a hedge relationship is discontinued, or partially discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income remains in equity until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to the income statement.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
A gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income: the residual change in fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the disposal, or part disposal, of the foreign operation.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Non-qualifying hedges are derivatives entered into as economic hedges of assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting was not applied.
f Insurance contracts A contract is classified as an insurance contract where HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event.
An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant.
In addition, HSBC issues investment contracts with DPF which are also accounted for as insurance contracts as required by IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
Net insurance premium income Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which they relate.
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movements in liabilities to policyholders Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration.
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment.
Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities.
Death claims are recognised when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value, which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Future profit participation on insurance contracts with DPF Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, liabilities for these contracts include provisions for the future discretionary benefits to policyholders.
These provisions reflect the actual performance of the investment portfolio to date and managements expectation of the future performance of the assets backing the contracts, as well as other experience factors such as mortality, lapses and operational efficiency, where appropriate.
The benefits to policyholders may be determined by the contractual terms, regulation, or past distribution policy.
Investment contracts with DPF While investment contracts with DPF are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as required by IFRS 4.
The Group therefore recognises the premiums for these contracts as revenue and recognises as an expense the resulting increase in the carrying amount of the liability.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 201 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements In the case of net unrealised investment gains on these contracts, whose discretionary benefits principally reflect the actual performance of the investment portfolio, the corresponding increase in the liabilities is recognised in either the income statement or other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised gains on the relevant assets.
In the case of net unrealised losses, a deferred participating asset is recognised only to the extent that its recoverability is highly probable.
Movements in the liabilities arising from realised gains and losses on relevant assets are recognised in the income statement.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business HSBC recognises the value placed on insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF, which are classified as long-term and in-force at the balance sheet date, as an asset.
The asset represents the present value of the equity holders interest in the issuing insurance companies profits expected to emerge from these contracts written at the balance sheet date.
The present value of inforce business PVIF is determined by discounting those expected future profits using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses, and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective contracts.
The PVIF incorporates allowances for both non-market risk and the value of financial options and guarantees.
The PVIF asset is presented gross of attributable tax in the balance sheet and movements in the PVIF asset are included in Other operating income on a gross of tax basis.
g Employee compensation and benefits Share-based payments HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for services provided by employees.
The vesting period for these schemes may commence before the grant date if the employees have started to render services in respect of the award before the grant date.
Expenses are recognised when the employee starts to render service to which the award relates.
Cancellations result from the failure to meet a non-vesting condition during the vesting period, and are treated as an acceleration of vesting recognised immediately in the income statement.
Failure to meet a vesting condition by the employee is not treated as a cancellation, and the amount of expense recognised for the award is adjusted to reflect the number of awards expected to vest.
Post-employment benefit plans HSBC operates a number of pension schemes including defined benefit and defined contribution and post-employment benefit schemes.
Payments to defined contribution plans are charged as an expense as the employees render service.
Defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method.
The net charge to the income statement mainly comprises the service cost and the net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability, and is presented in operating expenses.
Re-measurements of the net defined benefit asset or liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
The net defined benefit asset or liability represents the present value of defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets, after applying the asset ceiling test, where the net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The cost of obligations arising from other post-employment plans are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.
h Tax Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised in the same statement as the related item appears.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled.
Current and deferred tax is calculated based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The recognition of a deferred tax asset relies on an assessment of the probability and sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies.
In the absence of a history of taxable profits, the most significant judgements relate to expected future profitability and to the applicability of tax planning strategies, including corporate reorganisations.
i Provisions, contingent liabilities and guarantees Provisions Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a present legal or constructive obligation that has arisen as a result of past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made.
202 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Critical accounting estimates and judgements Judgement is involved in determining whether a present obligation exists and in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any outflows.
Professional expert advice is taken on the assessment of litigation, property including onerous contracts and similar obligations.
Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters typically require a higher degree of judgement than other types of provisions.
When matters are at an early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the high degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and amount of any outflows that may arise.
As matters progress, management and legal advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be recognised, revising previous judgements and estimates as appropriate.
At more advanced stages, it is typically easier to make judgements and estimates around a better defined set of possible outcomes.
However, the amount provisioned can remain very sensitive to the assumptions used.
There could be a wide range of possible outcomes for any pending legal proceedings, investigations or inquiries.
As a result, it is often not practicable to quantify a range of possible outcomes for individual matters.
It is also not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges of potential outcomes in aggregate for these types of provisions because of the diverse nature and circumstances of such matters and the wide range of uncertainties involved.
Provisions for customer remediation also require significant levels of estimation and judgement.
The amounts of provisions recognised depend on a number of different assumptions, such as, the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound complaint volumes, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint.
Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, and contingent liabilities related to legal proceedings or regulatory matters, are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote.
Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or present value of the fee receivable.
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities.
HSBC elects to account for certain guarantees as insurance contracts in HSBC Holdings financial statements, in which case they are measured and recognised as insurance liabilities.
This election is made on a contract by contract basis, and is irrevocable.
2 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value 2016 2015 2014 $m $m $m Net income expense arising on: Financial assets Financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts 1,480 531 2,300 Other financial assets designated at fair value 90 89 131 Derivatives managed with other financial assets designated at fair value 43 13 19 1,527 633 2,412 Financial liabilities Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 218 34 435 HSBCs long-term debt issued and related derivatives 3,975 863 508 changes in own credit spread on long-term debt 1,792 1,002 417 derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBCs issued debt securities 1,367 1,997 333 other changes in fair value 816 1,858 242 Other financial liabilities designated at fair value 6 3 23 Derivatives managed with other financial liabilities designated at fair value 6 1 11 4,193 899 61 Year ended 31 Dec 2,666 1,532 2,473 HSBC Holdings Net income expense arising on HSBC Holdings long-term debt issued and related derivatives 2016 2015 2014 Footnotes $m $m $m Net income expense arising on: 1 changes in own credit spread on long-term debt 348 339 derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings issued debt securities 642 927 126 other changes in fair value 593 855 27 Year ended 31 Dec 49 276 438 1 From 1 January 2016, HSBC Holdings adopted, in its separate financial statements, the requirements of IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments' relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value.
As a result, the effects of changes in those liabilities' credit risk is presented in other comprehensive income with the remaining effect presented in profit or loss.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 203 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 3 Insurance business Net insurance premium income Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts 1 insurance insurance with DPF Total $m $m $m $m Gross insurance premium income 8,036 675 1,877 10,588 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 629 8 637 Year ended 31 Dec 2016 7,407 667 1,877 9,951 Gross insurance premium income 7,506 1,409 2,097 11,012 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 648 9 657 Year ended 31 Dec 2015 6,858 1,400 2,097 10,355 Gross insurance premium income 7,705 2,195 2,470 12,370 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 441 8 449 Year ended 31 Dec 2014 7,264 2,187 2,470 11,921 1 Discretionary participation features.
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts 1 insurance insurance with DPF Total $m $m $m $m Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 8,778 1,321 2,409 12,508 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 2,828 749 2,017 5,594 movement in liabilities 5,950 572 392 6,914 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 560 78 638 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 112 14 126 movement in liabilities 448 64 512 Year ended 31 Dec 2016 8,218 1,243 2,409 11,870 Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 7,746 1,398 2,728 11,872 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 3,200 1,869 2,101 7,170 movement in liabilities 4,546 471 627 4,702 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 575 5 580 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 153 64 217 movement in liabilities 422 59 363 Year ended 31 Dec 2015 7,171 1,393 2,728 11,292 Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 7,770 2,765 3,188 13,723 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 3,575 1,499 2,215 7,289 movement in liabilities 4,195 1,266 973 6,434 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 411 33 378 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 176 88 264 movement in liabilities 235 121 114 Year ended 31 Dec 2014 7,359 2,798 3,188 13,345 1 Discretionary participation features.
204 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Liabilities under insurance contracts Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts 1 insurance insurance with DPF Total Footnotes $m $m $m $m Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 1 Jan 2016 40,538 6,791 22,609 69,938 Claims and benefits paid 2,828 749 2,017 5,594 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 8,778 1,321 2,409 12,508 Disposals transfers to held-for-sale 2 Exchange differences and other movements 445 414 720 1,579 Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2016 46,043 6,949 22,281 75,273 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts 1,500 320 1,820 Net liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2016 44,543 6,629 22,281 73,453 Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 1 Jan 2015 36,973 11,820 25,068 73,861 Claims and benefits paid 3,200 1,869 2,101 7,170 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 7,746 1,398 2,728 11,872 Disposals transfers to held-for-sale 443 4,594 5,037 2 Exchange differences and other movements 538 36 3,086 3,588 Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2015 40,538 6,791 22,609 69,938 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts 1,115 263 1,378 Net liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2015 39,423 6,528 22,609 68,560 1 Discretionary participation features.
2 Exchange differences and other movements includes movements in liabilities arising from net unrealised investment gains recognised in other comprehensive income.
The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders included death claims, surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 205 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 4 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the following items: 2016 2015 2014 $m $m $m Income Interest recognised on impaired financial assets 574 934 1,137 Fees earned on financial assets that are not at fair value through profit or loss other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate 7,732 8,736 9,438 Fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities 2,543 3,052 3,253 Expense Interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on financial liabilities held for trading or designated at fair value 11,858 13,680 15,322 Fees payable on financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate 1,214 1,251 1,427 Fees payable relating to trust and other fiduciary activities 129 166 185 Payments under lease and sublease agreements 969 1,190 1,548 minimum lease payments 945 1,058 1,199 contingent rents and sublease payments 24 132 349 UK bank levy 922 1,421 1,066 Restructuring provisions 415 430 147 Gains losses Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities 36 111 373 Gains losses recognised on assets held for sale 206 244 220 Gains on the partial sale of shareholding in Industrial Bank 1,372 Loss on disposal of Brazilian operations 1,743 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 3,400 3,721 3,851 net impairment charge on loans and advances 3,350 3,592 4,055 release of impairment on available-for-sale debt securities 63 17 319 other credit risk provisions 113 146 115 External net operating income is attributed to countries on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds: 2016 2015 2014 Footnote $m $m $m 1 External net operating income by country 47,966 59,800 61,248 UK 9,495 14,132 14,392 Hong Kong 12,864 14,447 12,656 US 5,094 5,541 5,736 France 2,571 2,706 2,538 other countries 17,942 22,974 25,926 of which: Brazil 204 3,546 4,817 1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.
5 Employee compensation and benefits 2016 2015 2014 $m $m $m Wages and salaries 15,735 17,245 17,477 Social security costs 1,312 1,600 1,666 Post-employment benefits 1,042 1,055 1,223 Year ended 31 Dec 18,089 19,900 20,366 Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by global business 2016 2015 2014 Retail Banking and Wealth Management 137,234 155,859 156,397 Commercial Banking 45,912 51,007 50,519 Global Banking and Markets 47,623 49,912 47,219 Global Private Banking 8,322 8,934 8,799 Corporate Centre 7,842 2,721 1,833 Year ended 31 Dec 246,933 268,433 264,767 206 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by geographical region Footnote 2016 2015 2014 1 Europe 71,196 68,408 68,163 Asia 122,282 121,438 116,492 1 Middle East and North Africa 12,021 14,467 14,477 North America 20,353 21,506 21,983 Latin America 21,081 42,614 43,652 Year ended 31 Dec 246,933 268,433 264,767 1 2015 and 2014 figures are restated for the changes explained on page 44.
Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to income statement charge 2016 2015 2014 $m $m $m Total incentive awards approved and granted for the current year 3,035 3,462 3,660 Less: deferred bonuses awarded, expected to be recognised in future periods 323 387 359 Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year 2,712 3,075 3,301 Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 371 483 425 Other 128 40 114 Income statement charge for incentive awards 2,955 3,518 3,612 Year in which income statement is expected to reflect deferred bonuses Charge recognised Expected charge 2018 and 2016 2015 2014 2017 beyond $m $m $m $m $m Variable compensation from 2016 bonus pool 152 137 186 Variable compensation from 2015 bonus pool 168 253 128 76 Variable compensation from 2014 bonus pool and earlier 203 483 670 88 28 Total 523 736 670 353 290 Cash awards 163 168 150 102 98 Equity awards 360 568 520 251 192 Share-based payments Wages and salaries includes the effect of share-based payments arrangements, of which $534m were equity settled 2015: $757m: 2014: $732m, as follows: 2016 2015 2014 $m $m $m Restricted share awards 591 748 738 Savings-related and other share award option plans 33 43 36 Year ended 31 Dec 624 791 774 HSBC share awards Award Policy Restricted share awards An assessment of performance over the relevant period endingon 31 December is used to determine the amount including annual incentive ofthe award to be granted.
awards delivered in shares Deferred awards generally require employees to remain in employment over the vesting period and are not and GPSP subject to performance conditions after the grant date.
Deferred share awards generally vest over a period of three years and GPSP awards vest after five years.
Vested shares may be subject to a retention requirement post-vesting.
GPSP awards are retained until cessation of employment.
Awards granted from 2010 onwards are subject to a malus provision prior to vesting.
Awards granted to Material Risk Takers from 2015 onwards aresubject to clawback post vesting.
International Employee The plan was first introduced in Hong Kong in 2013 and now includes employees based in 25 jurisdictions.
Share Purchase Plan Shares are purchased in the market each quarter up to a maximum value of 750, or the equivalent in local ShareMatch currency.
Matching awards are added at a ratio of one free share for every three purchased.
Matching awards vest subject to continued employment and the retention of the purchased shares for a maximum period of two years and nine months.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 207 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Movement on HSBC share awards 2016 2015 Number Number 000s 000s Restricted share awards outstanding at 1 Jan 118,665 116,483 Additions during the year 94,981 80,749 Released in the year 76,552 75,235 Forfeited in the year 13,928 3,332 Restricted share awards outstanding at 31 Dec 123,166 118,665 Weighted average fair value of awards granted $ 7.25 9.67 HSBC share option plans Main plans Policy Savings-related share Two plans: the UK Plan and the International Plan.
The last grant of options under the International Plan was in option plans Sharesave 2012.
From 2014, eligible employees can save up to 500 per month with the option to use the savings to acquire shares.
Exercisable within six months following either the third or fifth anniversaries of the commencement of a three-year or five-year contract, respectively.
The exercise price is set at a 20% 2015: 20% discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation.
HSBC Holdings Group share Plan ceased in May 2005. optionplan Exercisable between the third and 10th anniversaries of the date of grant.
Calculation of fair values The fair values of share options are calculated using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the date of the grant.
Movement on HSBC share option plans Savings-related HSBC Holdings Group share option plans share option plan 1 1 Number WAEP Number WAEP Footnotes 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 Jan 2016 74,775 4.36 2 Granted during the year 15,044 4.40 3 Exercised during the year 4,354 5.02 Expired during the year 15,438 4.47 Outstanding at 31 Dec 2016 70,027 4.30 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 2.91 Outstanding at 1 Jan 2015 66,366 4.89 6,374 7.29 2 Granted during the year 52,629 4.05 3 Exercised during the year 21,120 4.45 Expired during the year 23,100 5.11 6,374 7.29 Outstanding at 31 Dec 2015 74,775 4.36 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 3.92 1 Weighted average exercise price.
2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was $1.28 2015: $1.09.
3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was $6.98 2015: $8.50 and $0 2015: $0 for the savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group share option plan, respectively.
Post-employment benefit plans The Group operates pension plans throughout the world for its employees.
Pension risk management on page 84 contains details of the policies and practices associated with these pension plans.
Some are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the principal plan.
The principal plan The principal plan has a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section was closed to future benefit accrual in 2015, with defined benefits earned by employees at that date continuing to be linked to their salary while they remain employed by HSBC Bank.
The plan is overseen by an independent corporate trustee, who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the plan.
Its assets are held separately from the assets of the Group.
The investment strategy of the plan is to hold the majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in a diverse range of investments.
It also includes some interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate risk and inflation swaps to reduce inflation risk.
208 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The latest funding valuation of the plan at 31 December 2014 was carried out by Colin G Singer, of Willis Towers Watson Limited, who is a Fellow of the UK Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
At that date, the market value of the plans assets was 24.6bn $30.3bn and this exceeded the value placed on its liabilities on an ongoing basis by 520m $641m, giving a funding level of 102%.
The main differences between the assumptions used for assessing the liabilities for this funding valuation and those used for IAS 19 see Key actuarial assumptions section below are more prudent discount rate, inflation and longevity assumptions.
Although the plan was in surplus at the valuation date, HSBC agreed to make further contributions to the plan to support a lower-risk investment strategy over the longer term.
These contributions amounted to 128m $158m in 2016 and are expected to amount to 64m $79m in each of 2017, 2018 and 2019, and 160m $197m in each of 2020 and 2021.
The chart below shows the expected profile of future benefits payable from the plan.
Future benefit payments $bn The actuary also assessed the value of the liabilities if the plan were to be stopped and an insurance company asked to secure all future pension payments.
This is generally larger than the amount needed on the ongoing basis described above because an insurance company would use more prudent assumptions and include an explicit allowance for the future administrative expenses ofthe plan.
Under this approach, the amount of assets needed was estimated to be 31bn $38bn at 31December 2014.
Income statement charge 2016 2015 2014 $m $m $m Defined benefit pension plans 218 256 469 Defined contribution pension plans 783 793 687 Pension plans 1,001 1,049 1,156 Defined benefit and contribution healthcare plans 41 6 67 Year ended 31 Dec 1,042 1,055 1,223 Net assets liabilities recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans Present value of Effect of Fair value of defined benefit limit on plan plan assets obligations surpluses Total $m $m $m $m Defined benefit pension plans 42,397 39,747 24 2,626 Defined benefit healthcare plans 118 711 593 At 31 Dec 2016 42,515 40,458 24 2,033 Total employee benefit liabilities within Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2,681 Total employee benefit assets within Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 4,714 Defined benefit pension plans 41,424 38,326 14 3,084 Defined benefit healthcare plans 141 762 621 At 31 Dec 2015 41,565 39,088 14 2,463 Total employee benefit liabilities within Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2,809 Total employee benefit assets within Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 5,272 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 209 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Defined benefit pension plans Net asset liability under defined benefit pension plans Present value of Fair value of plan defined benefit Effect of the asset Net defined benefit assets obligations ceiling asset liability Principal Other Principal Other Principal Other Principal Other plan plans plan plans plan plans plan plans $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2016 32,670 8,754 27,675 10,651 14 4,995 1,911 Current service cost 70 235 70 235 Past service cost and gains losses fromsettlements 1 39 40 Service cost 1 70 274 70 275 Net interest income cost on the net defined benefit asset liability 1,085 294 914 337 1 171 44 Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 6,449 671 6,886 299 8 437 364 return on plan assets excluding interest income 6,449 671 6,449 671 actuarial gains losses 7,029 152 8 7,029 160 other changes 143 147 143 147 Exchange differences 6,097 534 5,254 410 1 843 125 Contributions by HSBC 347 379 347 379 normal 64 207 64 207 special 283 172 283 172 Contributions by employees 30 30 Benefits paid 970 623 970 698 75 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan 42 15 42 15 At 31 Dec 2016 33,442 8,955 29,279 10,468 24 4,163 1,537 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: actives 7,066 5,066 deferreds 9,219 2,306 pensioners 12,994 3,096 At 1 Jan 2015 35,244 9,580 30,480 11,582 17 4,764 2,019 Current service cost 129 268 129 268 Past service cost and gains losses fromsettlements 3 53 71 53 68 Service cost 3 182 197 182 200 Net interest income cost on the net defined benefit asset liability 1,265 322 1,088 371 2 177 51 Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 1,521 394 1,642 339 30 121 85 return on plan assets excluding interest income 1,521 394 1,521 394 actuarial gains losses 1,392 339 30 1,392 309 other changes 250 250 Exchange differences 1,704 458 1,443 529 35 261 106 Contributions by HSBC 376 279 376 279 normal 159 227 159 227 special 217 52 217 52 Contributions by employees 17 35 17 35 Benefits paid 970 590 970 649 59 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan 37 17 37 17 At 31 Dec 2015 32,670 8,754 27,675 10,651 14 4,995 1,911 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: actives 6,310 5,350 deferreds 7,919 2,239 pensioners 13,446 3,062 HSBC expects to make $425m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2017.
Benefits expected to be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years thereafter, are as follows: Benefits expected to be paid from plans 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022-2026 2017 Footnote $m $m $m $m $m $m 1 The principal plan 917 948 979 1,012 1,045 5,533 1 Other plans 427 468 489 505 536 2,492 1 The duration of the defined benefit obligation is 19.0 years for the principal plan under the disclosure assumptions adopted 2015: 17.0 years and 13.9 years for all other plans combined 2015: 13.9 years.
Post-employment defined benefit plans principal actuarial financial assumptions HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans local actuaries, on the basis of current average yields of high quality AA-rated or equivalent debt instruments with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
Key actuarial assumptions for the principal plan Rate of increase Rate of pay Discount rate Inflation rate for pensions increase % % % % UK At 31 Dec 2016 2.50 3.50 3.20 4.00 At 31 Dec 2015 3.70 3.20 3.00 3.70 At 31 Dec 2014 3.70 3.20 3.00 3.70 Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 65 for the principal plan Mortality Life expectancy at age 65 for Life expectancy at age 65 for table a male member currently: a female member currently: Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45 UK 1 At 31 Dec 2016 SAPS S2 22.4 24.1 24.7 26.6 2 At 31 Dec 2015 SAPS S1 23.6 25.0 24.9 26.7 1 Self-administered Pension Scheme SAPS S2 table Males: 'All Pensioners' version, Females: 'Normal Pensions' version with a multiplier of 0.98 for both male and female pensioners.
Improvements are projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation 'CMI core projection model 2015 with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum.
Separate tables assuming lighter mortality have been applied to higher paid pensioners.
2 Self-administered Pension Scheme SAPS Light table with a multiplier of 1.01 for male pensioners and 1.02 for female pensioners.
Improvements are projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI core projection model 2015 with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum.
The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan Impact on HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme Obligation Financial impact of increase Financial impact of decrease 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m Discount rate increase decrease of 0.25% 1,322 1,107 1,419 1,180 Inflation rate increase decrease of 0.25% 735 747 1,048 855 Pension payments and deferred pensions increase decrease of 0.25% 1,305 990 1,255 937 Pay increase decrease of 0.25% 143 119 139 119 Change in mortality increase of 1 year 1,326 670 n a n a HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 211 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements HSBC Holdings Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings employees in 2016 amounted to $571m 2015: $908m.
The average number of persons employed during 2016 was 1,660 2015: 2,656.
Employees who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme.
HSBC Holdings pays contributions to such plans for its own employees in accordance with the schedules of contributions determined by the trustees of the plans and recognises these contributions as an expense as they fall due.
From 1 July 2016 employment costs of most employees are recognised by the ServCo group and the ServCo group has started providing services to HSBC Holdings.
HSBC Holdings recogniseda management charge of $406m for these services which is included under General and administrative expenses.
Directors emoluments Details of directors emoluments, pensions and their interests are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 153.
6 Auditors remuneration 2016 2015 2014 Footnotes $m $m $m 1, 2 Audit fees payable to PwC KPMG 65.7 62.0 40.6 Other audit fees payable 1.6 1.2 1.2 Year ended 31 Dec 67.3 63.2 41.8 2 Fees payable by HSBC to PwC KPMG 2016 2015 2014 Footnotes $m $m $m 3 Fees for HSBC Holdings statutory audit 14.0 13.1 13.4 Fees for other services provided to HSBC 97.1 85.1 62.5 4 audit of HSBCs subsidiaries 51.7 48.9 27.2 5 audit-related assurance services 20.6 16.6 22.6 taxation-related services: taxation compliance services 1.9 1.0 1.5 taxation advisory services 0.4 0.9 0.8 6 other assurance services 4.5 2.8 0.7 6 other non-audit services 18.0 14.9 9.7 Year ended 31 Dec 111.1 98.2 75.9 No fees were payable by HSBC to PwC or KPMG as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit services and services related to litigation, recruitment and remuneration.
2 Fees payable by HSBCs associated pension schemes to PwC KPMG 2016 2015 2014 $000 $000 $000 Audit of HSBCs associated pension schemes 208 352 322 Audit related assurance services 4 5 5 Year ended 31 Dec 212 357 327 1 Included within the 2016 audit fees payable is a final fee adjustment of $4.2m related to the prior year audit in respect of overruns.
2 PwC became the Groups principal auditor in 2015.
KPMG was the principal auditor during 2014.
3 Fees payable to PwC and KPMG for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
They include amounts payable for services relating to the consolidation returns of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries which are clearly identifiable as being in support of the Group audit opinion.
4 Fees payable for the statutory audit of the financial statements of HSBCs subsidiaries, including the 2016 changes in scope and additional procedures performed due to the technology systems and data access controls matter as described on page 174.
5 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews and work performed related to the implementation of IFRS 9.
6 Including other permitted services relating to advisory, corporate finance transactions, etc.
No fees were payable by HSBCs associated pension schemes to PwC or KPMG as principal auditor for the following types of services: audit-related assurance services, internal audit services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment and remuneration, and information technology.
In addition to the above, the estimated fees paid to PwC by third parties other than HSBC amount to $4.3m PwC 2015: $2.4m: KPMG 2014: $3.6m.
In these cases, HSBC is connected with the contracting party and may therefore be involved in appointing PwC.
These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the HSBC Group.
212 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 Tax Tax expense 2016 2015 2014 Footnotes $m $m $m 1 Current tax 3,669 3,797 3,950 for this year 3,525 3,882 4,477 adjustments in respect of prior years 144 85 527 Deferred tax 3 26 25 origination and reversal of temporary differences 111 153 477 effect of changes in tax rates 4 110 83 adjustments in respect of prior years 112 17 419 Year ended 31 Dec 3,666 3,771 3,975 1 Current tax included Hong Kong profits tax of $1,118m 2015: $1,294m: 2014: $1,135m.
The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% 2015: 16.5%: 2014: 16.5%.
Tax reconciliation The tax charged to the income statement differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate as follows: 2016 2015 2014 $m % $m % $m % Profit before tax 7,112 18,867 18,680 Tax expense Taxation at UK corporation tax rate of 20.0% 2015: 20.25%: 2014: 1,422 20.0 3,821 20.25 4,016 21.50 21.5% Impact of differently taxed overseas profits in overseas locations 43 0.6 71 0.4 33 0.2 Items increasing tax charge in 2016 not in 2015: non-deductible goodwill write-down 648 9.1 non-deductible loss and taxes suffered on Brazil disposal 464 6.5 UK tax losses not recognised 305 4.3 adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities 256 3.6 68 0.4 108 0.6 UK Banking Surcharge 199 2.8 non-UK tax losses not recognised 147 2.1 Other items increasing tax charge in 2016: local taxes and overseas withholding taxes 434 6.1 416 2.2 434 2.3 other permanent disallowables 438 6.2 421 2.2 476 2.5 bank levy 170 2.4 286 1.5 229 1.2 non-deductible UK customer compensation 162 2.3 87 0.5 other items 116 0.6 22 0.1 non-deductible regulatory settlements 20 0.3 184 1.0 264 1.4 Items reducing tax charge in 2016: non-taxable income and gains 577 8.1 501 2.7 668 3.5 effect of profits in associates and joint ventures 461 6.5 508 2.7 547 2.9 change in tax rates 4 0.1 110 0.6 22 0.1 Non-taxable income and gains - Industrial Bank 227 1.2 US deferred tax temporary differences previously not recognised 184 1.0 154 0.8 Other deferred tax temporary differences previously not recognised 21 0.1 Year ended 31 Dec 3,666 51.6 3,771 20.0 3,975 21.3 The Groups profits are taxed at different rates depending on the country in which the profits arise.
The key applicable tax rates include Hong Kong 16.5%, USA 35% and UK 20%.
If the Groups profits were taxed at the statutory rates of the countries in which the profits arise then the tax rate for the year would have been 20.6% 2015: 20.65%.
The effective tax rate for the year was 51.6% 2015: 20% and was significantly higher than 2015 due to the non-deductible goodwill write-down and loss on disposal of Brazil, tax losses not recognised, adjustments in respect of prior periods and the 8% UK banking surcharge, which became applicable from 1 January 2016.
Accounting for taxes involves some estimation because the tax law is uncertain and its application requires a degree of judgement, which authorities may dispute.
Liabilities are recognised based on best estimates of the probable outcome, taking into account external advice where appropriate.
We do not expect significant liabilities to arise in excess of the amounts provided.
HSBC only recognises current and deferred tax assets where recovery is probable.
2 After netting off balances within countries, the balances as disclosed in the accounts are as follows: deferred tax assets $6,163m 2015: $6,051m : and deferred tax liabilities $1,623m 2015: $1,760m.
3 Excludes a tax credit of $195m relating to deferred tax balances in Brazil, which were included within 'Assets held for sale' prior to disposal.
In applying judgement in recognising deferred tax assets, management has critically assessed all available information, including future business profit projections and the track record of meeting forecasts.
The net deferred tax asset of $4.5bn 2015: $4.3bn includes $4.8bn 2015: $4.5bn deferred tax assets relating to the US, of which $2bn deferred tax asset relates to US tax losses that expire in 16-20 years.
Management expects the US deferred tax asset to be substantially recovered in six to seven years, with the majority recovered in the first five years.
The most recent financial forecasts approved by management covers a five-year period and the forecasts have been extrapolated beyond five years by assuming that performance remains constant after the fifth year.
The forecasts also include additional tax losses in 2017 these losses expire in 2037 and are expected to be utilised by 2023.
The US reported a loss for the current period, mainly due to the Household International class action litigation settlement.
Excluding the Household International class action settlement the US would have reported a profit for the current year.
In addition, the US reported a profit in 2014 and 2015.
Management does not expect the current year loss to adversely impact future deferred tax asset recovery to a significant extent.
The US deferred tax asset has been calculated using the current federal tax rate of 35%.
Any possible future reduction of the US federal tax rate from 35% would reduce the value of the US deferred tax assets and create a tax charge in the period in which any change in the tax rate is enacted.
This tax charge should be ultimately offset by the benefit of reduced US tax charges in future years.
Unrecognised deferred tax The amount of gross temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was $18.2bn 2015: $15.5bn.
These amounts included unused state losses arising in the Groups US operations of $12.3bn 2015: $11.3bn.
Of the total amounts unrecognised, $4.9bn 2015: $3.1bn had no expiry date, $1.0bn 2015: $0.9bn was scheduled to expire within 10 years and the remaining balance is expected to expire after 10 years.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Groups investments in subsidiaries and branches where HSBC is able to control the timing of remittance or other realisation and where remittance or realisation is not probable in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate temporary differences relating to unrecognised deferred tax liabilities arising on investments in subsidiaries and branches is $10.6bn 2015: $9.1bn and the corresponding unrecognised deferred tax liability is $0.7bn 2015: $0.6bn.
214 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8 Dividends Dividends to shareholders of the parent company 2016 2015 2014 Per Settled Per Settled Per Settled share Total in scrip share Total in scrip share Total in scrip $ $m $m $ $m $m $ $m $m Dividends paid on ordinary shares In respect of previous year: fourth interim dividend 0.21 4,137 408 0.20 3,845 2,011 0.19 3,582 1,827 In respect of current year: first interim dividend 0.10 1,981 703 0.10 1,951 231 0.10 1,906 284 second interim dividend 0.10 1,991 994 0.10 1,956 160 0.10 1,914 372 third interim dividend 0.10 1,990 935 0.10 1,958 760 0.10 1,918 226 Total 0.51 10,099 3,040 0.50 9,710 3,162 0.49 9,320 2,709 Total dividends on preference shares classified as equity paid 62.00 90 62.00 90 62.00 90 quarterly Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity 2016 2015 2014 Total Total Total Footnotes First call date Per security $m $m $m 1, 3 Perpetual subordinated capital securities $2,200m Apr 2013 $2.032 179 179 179 $3,800m Dec 2015 $2.000 304 304 304 2, 3 Perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities $2,250m issued at 6.375% Sep 2024 $63.750 143 143 $1,500m issued at 5.625% Jan 2020 $56.250 84 70 1,500m issued at 5.250% Sep 2022 52.500 88 86 $2,450m issued at 6.375% Mar 2025 $63.750 156 78 1,000m issued at 6.000% Sep 2023 60.000 67 $2,000m issued at 6.875% Jun 2021 $68.750 69 Total 1,090 860 483 1 Discretionary coupons are paid quarterly on the perpetual subordinated capital securities, in denominations of $25 per security.
2 Discretionary coupons are paid semi-annually on the perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities, in denominations of 1,000 per security.
3 Further details of these securities can be found in Note 32.
After the end of the year, the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2016 of $0.21 per ordinary share, a distribution of approximately $4,172m.
The fourth interim dividend will be payable on 6 April 2017 to holders on the Principal Register in the UK, the Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register on 24February 2017.
No liability was recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2016.
On 17 January 2017, HSBC paid a coupon on its $2,200m subordinated capital securities of $0.508 per security, a distribution of$45m.
On 17 January 2017, HSBC paid a coupon on its $1,500m subordinated contingent convertible securities of $28.125 per security, a distribution of $42m.
No liability was recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 in respect of these coupon payments.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 215 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 2016 2015 2014 $m $m $m Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 2,479 13,522 13,688 Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity 90 90 90 Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity 1,090 860 483 Year ended 31 Dec 1,299 12,572 13,115 Basic and diluted earnings per share 2016 2015 2014 Number Per Number Per Number Per Profit of shares share Profit of shares share Profit of shares share Footnote $m millions $ $m millions $ $m millions $ 1 Basic 1,299 19,753 0.07 12,572 19,380 0.65 13,115 18,960 0.69 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 92 137 96 1 Diluted 1,299 19,845 0.07 12,572 19,517 0.64 13,115 19,056 0.69 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding basic or assuming dilution diluted.
The weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares excludes 10m employee share options that were 2015: 7m: 2014: 6m.
10 Trading assets 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m Treasury and other eligible bills 14,451 7,829 Debt securities 94,054 99,038 Equity securities 63,604 66,491 Trading securities 172,109 173,358 1 Loans and advances to banks 24,769 22,303 1 Loans and advances to customers 38,247 29,176 At 31 Dec 235,125 224,837 1 Loans and advances to banks and customers include settlement accounts, stock borrowing, reverse repos and other amounts.
1 Trading Securities 2016 2015 Footnotes $m $m 2 US Treasury and US Government agencies 17,010 14,833 UK Government 9,493 10,177 Hong Kong Government 7,970 6,495 Other governments 49,229 48,567 3 Asset-backed securities 2,668 3,135 Corporate debt and other securities 22,135 23,660 Equity securities 63,604 66,491 At 31 Dec 172,109 173,358 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of $14,630m 2015: $16,403m, of which $789m 2015: $1,034m are guaranteed by various governments.
2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government.
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies.
216 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Control framework Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the risk taker.
Where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is used.
For inactive markets, HSBC sources alternative market information, with greater weight given to information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
Examples of the factors considered are price observability, instrument comparability, consistency of data sources, underlying data accuracy and timing of prices.
For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework includes development or validation by independent support functions of the model logic, inputs, model outputs and adjustments.
Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence before becoming operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis.
Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process and are disaggregated into high-level categories including portfolio changes, market movements and other fair value adjustments.
The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GB&M.
GB&Ms fair value governance structure comprises its Finance function, Valuation Committees and a Valuation Committee Review Group.
Finance is responsible for establishing procedures governing valuation and ensuring fair values are in compliance with accounting standards.
The fair values are reviewed by the Valuation Committees, which consist of independent support functions.
These Committees are overseen by the Valuation Committee Review Group, which considers all material subjective valuations.
Financial liabilities measured at fair value In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific instrument.
When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are either based on quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments.
In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBCs liabilities.
The change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Groups own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer.
Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a Libor-based discount curve.
The difference in the valuations is attributable to the Groups own credit spread.
This methodology is applied consistently across all securities.
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instruments are included within trading liabilities and are measured at fair value.
Thecredit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
Fair value hierarchy Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined according to the following hierarchy: Level 1 valuation technique using quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation 2016 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Recurring fair value measurements at 31 Dec Assets Trading assets 133,744 94,892 6,489 235,125 133,095 84,886 6,856 224,837 Financial assets designated at fair value 19,882 4,144 730 24,756 18,947 4,431 474 23,852 Derivatives 1,076 287,044 2,752 290,872 1,922 284,292 2,262 288,476 Financial investments: available for sale 274,655 111,743 3,476 389,874 262,929 117,197 4,727 384,853 Liabilities Trading liabilities 45,171 104,938 3,582 153,691 41,462 95,867 4,285 141,614 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 4,248 82,547 37 86,832 5,260 61,145 3 66,408 Derivatives 1,554 275,965 2,300 279,819 2,243 277,618 1,210 281,071 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 217 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values Assets Liabilities Available Held for Designated Held for Designated for sale trading at fair value Derivatives trading at fair value Derivatives $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2016 Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 162 1,614 122 465 2,699 209 Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 1,314 341 At 31 Dec 2015 Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 67 56 1,563 857 100 Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 487 2 515 2 Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each semi-annual reporting period.
Fair value adjustments Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC determines there are additional factors considered by market participants that are not incorporated within the valuation model.
Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses within the income statement, such as when models are enhanced and fair value adjustments may no longer be required.
Global Banking and Markets fair value adjustments 2016 2015 $m $m Type of adjustment Risk-related 1,131 1,402 bid-offer 416 477 uncertainty 87 95 credit valuation adjustment CVA 633 853 debit valuation adjustment DVA 437 465 funding fair value adjustment FFVA 429 442 other 3 Model-related 14 97 model limitation 14 92 other 5 Inception profit Day 1 P&L reserves Note 14 99 97 At 31 Dec 1,244 1,596 Fair value adjustments declined by $352m during the year.
The most significant movement was a decline of $220m in respect of the credit valuation adjustment, driven by the disposal of Brazilian operations, refinements to modelling methodology and as a result of tightening credit spreads.
Bid-offer IFRS 13 Fair value measurement requires use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value.
Valuation models will typically generate mid-market values.
The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be incurred if substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the position.
Uncertainty Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and or the choice of model itself may be more subjective.
Inthese circumstances an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that market participants would adopt more conservative values for uncertain parameters and or model assumptions than those used in HSBCs valuation model.
Credit and debit valuation adjustments The CVA is an adjustment to the valuation of over-the-counter OTC derivative contracts to reflect the possibility that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions.
The DVA is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the possibility that HSBC may default, and that it may not pay the full market value of the transactions.
HSBC calculates a separate CVA and DVA for each legal entity, and for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure.
With the exception of central clearing parties, all third-party counterparties are included in the CVA and DVA calculations, and these adjustments are not netted across Group entities.
HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default PD of the counterparty, conditional on the non-default of HSBC, toHSBCs expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default.
Conversely, HSBC calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to HSBC and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default.
Bothcalculations are performed over the life of the potential exposure.
For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology, which incorporates a range of potential exposures over the life of the portfolio, to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty.
The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants, such as counterparty netting agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty.
218 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The methodologies do not, in general, account for wrong-way risk which arises when the underlying value of the derivative prior to any CVA is positively correlated to the PD of the counterparty.
When there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect this risk in the valuation.
Funding fair value adjustment The FFVA is calculated by applying future market funding spreads to the expected future funding exposure of any uncollateralised component of the OTC derivative portfolio.
The expected future funding exposure is calculated by a simulation methodology, where available, and is adjusted for events that may terminate the exposure, such as the default of HSBC or the counterparty.
The FFVA and DVA are calculated independently.
Model limitation Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplified set of assumptions that do not capture all current and future material market characteristics.
In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted.
Inception profit Day 1 P&L reserves Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable inputs.
The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed in Note 1.
Fair value valuation bases Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs Level 3 Assets Liabilities Held for Designated Held for Available Designated for sale trading at fair value Derivatives Total trading at fair value Derivatives Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Private equity including strategic investments 2,435 49 712 3,196 25 25 Asset-backed securities 761 789 1,550 Loans held for securitisation 28 28 Structured notes 2 2 3,557 3,557 Derivatives with monolines 175 175 Other derivatives 2,577 2,577 2,300 2,300 Other portfolios 280 5,621 18 5,919 37 37 At 31 Dec 2016 3,476 6,489 730 2,752 13,447 3,582 37 2,300 5,919 Private equity including strategic investments 3,443 55 453 3,951 35 35 Asset-backed securities 1,053 531 1,584 Loans held for securitisation 30 30 Structured notes 4 4 4,250 4,250 Derivatives with monolines 196 196 Other derivatives 2,066 2,066 1,210 1,210 Other portfolios 231 6,236 21 6,488 3 3 At 31 Dec 2015 4,727 6,856 474 2,262 14,319 4,285 3 1,210 5,498 Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses.
Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with monolines, certain other derivatives and predominantly all Level 3 ABSs are legacy positions.
HSBC has the capability to hold these positions.
Private equity including strategic investments The investments fair value is estimated: on the basis of an analysis of the investees financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors: by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market: or the price at which similar companies have changed ownership.
Asset-backed securities While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of these securities, valuation models are used to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required.
For certain ABSs such as residential mortgage-backed securities, the valuation uses an industry standard model with assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate.
The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature.
Structured notes The fair value of Level 3 structured notes is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives.
These structured notes comprise principally equity-linked notes issued by HSBC which provide the counterparty with a return linked to the performance of equity securities and other portfolios.
Examples of the unobservable parameters include long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, and interest and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives OTC derivative valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon no-arbitrage principles.
For many vanilla derivative products, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry.
For more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice.
Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing.
Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 219 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy Movement in Level 3 financial instruments Assets Liabilities Available Held for Designated Held for Designated for sale trading at fair value Derivatives trading at fair value Derivatives Footnote $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2016 4,727 6,856 474 2,262 4,285 3 1,210 Total gains losses recognised in profit orloss 178 31 25 1,107 337 1 1,428 trading income expense excluding net interest income 31 1,107 337 1,428 net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value 25 1 gains less losses from financial investments 91 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions LICs 87 Total gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income OCI 1 162 610 8 335 130 1 240 available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses 123 cash flow hedges: fair value gains losses 12 exchange differences 285 610 8 335 130 1 252 Purchases 350 823 359 20 6 New issuances 1,882 Sales 1,212 1,760 7 40 2 Settlements 177 311 113 107 1,907 239 Transfers out 947 199 2 187 920 229 Transfers in 719 1,659 2 12 55 32 370 At 31 Dec 2016 3,476 6,489 730 2,752 3,582 37 2,300 Unrealised gains losses recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held at 87 170 21 364 143 1 335 31Dec 2016 trading income expense excluding net interest income 170 364 143 335 net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value 21 1 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 87 At 1 Jan 2015 4,988 6,468 726 2,924 6,139 1,907 Total gains losses recognised in profit orloss 34 109 30 95 573 1 209 trading income expense excluding net interest income 109 95 573 209 net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 30 1 gains less losses from financial investments 269 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions LICs 235 Total gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income OCI 1 226 192 11 126 118 1 64 available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses 393 cash flow hedges: fair value gains losses 4 exchange differences 167 192 11 122 118 1 64 Purchases 594 1,745 250 2 9 New issuances 1,471 Sales 757 1,206 50 66 4 Settlements 32 146 135 38 1,260 241 Transfers out 1,471 206 336 1,015 1,743 283 Transfers in 1,231 284 422 433 100 At 31 Dec 2015 4,727 6,856 474 2,262 4,285 3 1,210 Unrealised gains losses recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held at 31Dec 2015 235 9 12 89 384 1 267 trading income expense excluding net interest income 9 89 384 267 net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 12 1 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 235 1 Included in Available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses and Exchange differences in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
220 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives Sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions 2016 2015 Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI UnUnUnUnFavourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable changes changes changes changes changes changes changes changes Footnote $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Derivatives, trading assets and 1 238 177 335 215 trading liabilities Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 48 38 24 24 Financial investments: available for sale 72 36 170 149 35 30 230 243 At 31 Dec 358 251 170 149 394 269 230 243 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these instruments are riskmanaged.
Sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions by instrument type 2016 2015 Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI UnUnUnUnFavourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable changes changes changes changes changes changes changes changes $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Private equity including strategic 112 73 121 106 54 53 152 171 investments Asset-backed securities 43 15 33 27 18 12 57 51 Loans held for securitisation 1 1 1 1 Structured notes 10 7 15 11 Derivatives with monolines 3 3 11 11 Other derivatives 141 94 179 87 Other portfolios 48 58 16 16 116 94 21 21 At 31 Dec 358 251 170 149 394 269 230 243 The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval.
Methodologies take account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historical data.
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 221 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations Fair value 2016 2015 Key Valuation unobservable Full range Core range Full range Core range 1 1 Assets Liabilities techniques inputs of inputs of inputs of inputs of inputs Footnotes $m $m Lower Higher Lower Higher Lower Higher Lower Higher Private equity including See page See page strategic investments 3,196 25 224 224 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 2 Asset-backed securities 1,550 Prepayment CLO CDO 498 Market proxy rate 2% 7% 2% 7% 1% 6% 1% 6% Market proxy Bid quotes 0 101 42 94 3 147 54 117 other ABSs 1,052 Market proxy Bid quotes 0 96 57 90 0 147 44 109 Loans held for 28 securitisation Structured notes 2 3,557 Model Equity equity-linked notes 3,090 Option model volatility 11% 96% 16% 36% 12% 72% 19% 43% Model Equity 300 Option model correlation 33% 94% 46% 81% 35% 93% 43% 79% Model Fund fund-linked notes 9 Option model volatility 6% 11% 6% 11% 6% 8% 6% 8% Model FX-linked notes 87 Option model FX volatility 3% 29% 5% 18% 5% 35% 5% 20% other 2 71 Model Derivatives with Credit Discounted monolines 175 spread 2% 2% 2% 2% 4% 4% 4% 4% cash flow Other derivatives 2,577 2,300 Interest rate Model Prepayment Discounted securitisation swaps 711 1,117 rate 0% 90% 8% 27% 0% 90% 14% 71% cash flow long-dated Model swaptions 1,236 109 Option model IR volatility 8% 101% 21% 39% 3% 66% 20% 41% other 204 108 FX derivatives: Model FX options 240 364 Option model FX Volatility 0.6% 25% 7% 12% 0.5% 35% 5% 14% other 4 2 Equity derivatives: long-dated single Model Equity stock options 103 165 Option model volatility 11% 83% 16% 36% 8% 104% 18% 44% other 55 388 Credit derivatives: other 24 47 Other portfolios 5,919 37 Model structured Credit Discounted certificates 4,446 volatility 3% 4% 3% 4% 2% 4% 2% 4% cash flow EM corporate debt 124 Market proxy Bid quotes 96 144 113 113 70 124 100 123 3 other 1,349 37 At 31 Dec 2016 13,447 5,919 1 The core range of inputs is the estimated range within which 90% of the inputs fall.
2 Collateralised loan obligation collateralised debt obligation.
3 'Other' includes a range of smaller asset holdings.
222 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Private equity including strategic investments Given the bespoke nature of the analysis in respect of each holding, it is not practical to quote a range of key unobservable inputs.
Prepayment rates Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date.
They vary according to the nature of the loan portfolio and expectations of future market conditions, and may be estimated using a variety of evidence, such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historical prepayment rates and macroeconomic modelling.
Market proxy Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument when specific market pricing is not available but there is evidence from instruments with common characteristics.
In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence.
Volatility Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price.
It varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and maturity of the option.
Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable and are estimated from observable data.
The range of unobservable volatilities reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price.
The core range is significantly narrower than the full range because these examples with extreme volatilities occur relatively rarely within the HSBC portfolio.
Correlation Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market prices and is expressed as a number between minus one and one.
It is used to value more complex instruments where the payout is dependent upon more than one market price.
There is a wide range of instruments for which correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations and crossasset correlations is used.
In general, the range of same-asset correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations.
Unobservable correlations may be estimated based upon a range of evidence, including consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy correlations and examination of historical price relationships.
The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide variation in correlation inputs by market price pair.
Credit spread Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality.
In a discounted cash flow model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby reducing the value of an asset.
Credit spreads may be implied from market prices and may not be observable inmore illiquid markets.
Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other.
As described above, market variables may be correlated.
This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react to macroeconomic or other events.
Furthermore, the effect of changing market variables on the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBCs net risk position in respect of each variable.
HSBC Holdings Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 2016 2015 $m $m Valuation technique using observable inputs: Level 2 Assets at 31 Dec derivatives 2,148 2,467 available for sale 3,590 4,285 Liabilities at 31 Dec designated at fair value 30,113 19,853 derivatives 5,025 2,278 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 223 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 12 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation Fair value Significant Quoted market Observable unobservable Carrying price inputs inputs amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2016 Assets Loans and advances to banks 88,126 85,568 2,572 88,140 Loans and advances to customers 861,504 15,670 845,894 861,564 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 160,974 159,504 1,527 161,031 Financial investments debt securities 46,923 1,190 46,014 19 47,223 Liabilities Deposits by banks 59,939 59,883 42 59,925 Customer accounts 1,272,386 1,262,540 10,136 1,272,676 Repurchase agreements non-trading 88,958 88,939 88,939 Debt securities in issue 65,915 66,386 66,386 Subordinated liabilities 20,984 23,264 292 23,556 At 31 Dec 2015 Assets Loans and advances to banks 90,401 88,156 2,255 90,411 Loans and advances to customers 924,454 12,412 910,057 922,469 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 146,255 145,307 959 146,266 Financial investments debt securities 44,102 1,163 44,076 19 45,258 Liabilities Deposits by banks 54,371 54,295 76 54,371 Customer accounts 1,289,586 1,280,368 9,421 1,289,789 Repurchase agreements non-trading 80,400 80,400 80,400 Debt securities in issue 88,949 89,023 89,023 Subordinated liabilities 22,702 24,344 649 24,993 Fair values of selected financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation assets and disposal groups held for sale Fair value Significant Quoted market Observable unobservable Carrying price inputs inputs amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2016 Loans and advances to customers 3,756 241 3,306 3,547 Customer accounts 2,713 2,713 2,713 At 31 Dec 2015 Loans and advances to customers 21,109 4,068 16,884 20,952 Customer accounts 16,682 15,578 1,104 16,682 Other financial instruments not carried at fair value are typically short-term in nature and reprice to current market rates frequently.
Accordingly, their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
They include cash and balances at central banks, items in the course of collection from and transmission to other banks, Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness and Hong Kong currency notes in circulation, all of which are measured at amortised cost.
Valuation Fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
It does not reflect the economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from an instruments cash flow over its expected future life.
Our valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market prices are available may differ from those of other companies.
Loans and advances to banks and customers To determine the fair value of loans and advances to banks and customers, loans are segregated, as far as possible, into portfolios of similar characteristics.
Fair values are based on observable market transactions, when available.
When they are unavailable, fair values are estimated using valuation models incorporating a range of input assumptions.
These assumptions may include: value estimates from third-party brokers reflecting over-the-counter trading activity: forward-looking discounted cash flow models, taking account of expected customer prepayment rates, using assumptions that HSBC believes are consistent with those that would be used by market participants in valuing such loans: new business rates estimates for similar loans: and trading inputs from other market participants including observed primary and secondary trades.
From time to time, we may engage a third party valuation specialist to measure the fair value of a pool of loans.
The fair value of loans reflects impairments at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value effect of repricing between origination and the balance sheet date.
For impaired loans, fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered.
Financial investments The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices.
The fair values of unlisted financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that incorporate the prices and future earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities.
Deposits by banks and customer accounts The fair values of on demand deposits are approximated by their carrying value.
For deposits with longer-term maturities, fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements non-trading Fair values approximate carrying amounts as balances are generally short dated.
HSBC Holdings The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of measurement and disclosure are described above.
Fair values of HSBC Holdings financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 2016 2015 Carrying Carrying Fair Fair 1 1 amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Assets at 31 Dec Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 77,421 79,985 44,350 45,180 Liabilities at 31 Dec Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,157 2,156 2,152 2,152 Debt securities in issue 21,805 23,147 960 1,224 Subordinated liabilities 15,189 17,715 15,895 18,297 1 Fair values were determined using valuation techniques with observable inputs Level 2.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 225 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 13 Financial assets designated at fair value 2016 2015 $m $m Securities 24,677 23,732 treasury and other eligible bills 204 396 debt securities 4,189 4,341 equity securities 20,284 18,995 Loans and advances to banks and customers 79 120 At 31 Dec 24,756 23,852 1 Securities 2016 2015 Footnotes $m $m 2 US Treasury and US Government agencies 104 145 UK Government 41 103 Hong Kong Government 16 33 Other governments 747 1,020 3 Asset-backed securities 20 25 Corporate debt and other securities 3,465 3,411 Equities 20,284 18,995 At 31 Dec 24,677 23,732 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of $1,766m 2015: $1,536m, of which $19m 2015:$35m are guaranteed by various governments.
Derivative assets increased during 2016, driven by changes in foreign exchange rates and yield curve movements.
226 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries Notional contract amount Fair value Assets Fair value Liabilities Trading Hedging Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Foreign exchange 23,442 1,120 223 223 3,201 239 3,440 Interest rate 26,858 24,356 1,478 447 1,925 639 946 1,585 At 31 Dec 2016 50,300 25,476 1,701 447 2,148 3,840 1,185 5,025 Foreign exchange 19,036 1,120 390 390 2,065 213 2,278 Interest rate 10,150 5,132 1,600 477 2,077 At 31 Dec 2015 29,186 6,252 1,990 477 2,467 2,065 213 2,278 Use of derivatives For details regarding use of derivatives, see page 116 under Market Risk.
Trading derivatives Most of HSBCs derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities.
Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks.
Trading activities include market-making and risk management.
Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume.
Risk management activity is undertaken to manage the risk arising from client transactions, with the principal purpose of retaining client margin.
Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives.
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings derivatives entered into with subsidiaries are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value.
Derivatives valued using models with unobservable inputs The difference between the fair value at initial recognition the transaction price and the value that would have been derived had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows: Unamortised balance of derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable inputs 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m Unamortised balance at 1 Jan 97 114 Deferral on new transactions 156 196 Recognised in the income statement during the year: 140 207 amortisation 70 121 subsequent to unobservable inputs becoming observable 5 2 maturity, termination or offsetting derivative 65 84 Exchange differences 13 6 Other 1 1 Unamortised balance at 31 Dec 99 97 1 This amount is yet to be recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Hedge accounting derivatives Fair value hedges HSBCs fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixedrate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates.
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives designated as fair value hedges by product type 2016 2015 Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities $m $m $m $m $m $m HSBC Foreign exchange 618 10 22 196 2 Interest rate 124,361 1,078 3,726 105,127 672 3,395 At 31 Dec 124,979 1,088 3,748 105,323 674 3,395 HSBC Holdings Foreign exchange 1,120 239 1,120 213 Interest rate 24,356 447 946 5,132 477 At 31 Dec 25,476 447 1,185 6,252 477 213 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 227 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Gains or losses arising from fair value hedges 2016 2015 2014 $m $m $m HSBC Gains losses : on hedging instruments 439 40 2,542 on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 462 51 2,561 Year ended 31 Dec 23 11 19 HSBC Holdings Gains losses : on hedging instruments 909 4 423 on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 926 6 422 Year ended 31 Dec 17 2 1 Cash flow hedges HSBCs cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate swaps, futures and cross-currency swaps that are used to protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future.
The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults.
The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions.
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges by product held by HSBC 2016 2015 Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities $m $m $m $m $m $m Foreign Exchange 25,663 1,081 939 32,128 1,027 748 Interest rate 90,645 909 355 107,796 986 363 At 31 Dec 116,308 1,990 1,294 139,924 2,013 1,111 Forecast principal balances on which interest cash flows are expected to arise 3 months More than 3 months 5 years or less More than or less but less than 1 year but more than 1 year 5 years $m $m $m $m Net cash inflows outflows exposure Assets 83,472 79,749 57,553 2,750 Liabilities 13,169 12,977 11,761 1,502 At 31 Dec 2016 70,303 66,772 45,792 1,248 Net cash inflows outflows exposure Assets 94,256 93,528 62,664 971 Liabilities 16,241 17,179 11,681 3,326 At 31 Dec 2015 78,015 76,349 50,983 2,355 This table reflects the interest rate repricing profile of the underlying hedged items.
During the year to 31 December 2016 a loss of $5m 2015: gain of $15m: 2014: gain of $34m was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness.
A gain of $129m was recognised in respect of amounts reclassified from other comprehensive income to the income statement for partially discontinued macro cash flow hedges, where the hedged forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur 2015: nil: 2014: nil.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain consolidated net investments.
Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with foreign currency borrowings.
At 31 December 2016, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations were assets of $137m 2015: $111m, liabilities of $7m 2015: $12m and notional contract values of $3,544m 2015: $4,210m.
Ineffectiveness recognised in Net trading income in the year ended 31 December 2016 was nil 2015: nil: 2014: nil.
228 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Financial investments Carrying amount of financial investments 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m Available for sale securities at fair value 389,874 384,853 treasury and other eligible bills 99,226 104,551 debt securities 285,981 274,467 equity securities 4,667 5,835 Held to maturity securities at amortised cost 46,923 44,102 1 debt securities 46,923 44,102 At 31 Dec 436,797 428,955 1 Fair value $47.2bn 2015: $45.3bn.
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Government agencies and sponsored entities.
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31December 2016 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at thatdate.
The yields do not include the effect ofrelated derivatives.
16 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets transferred Assets pledged Financial assets pledged as collateral 2016 2015 $m $m Treasury bills and other eligible securities 7,151 5,941 Loans and advances to banks 17,444 15,582 Loans and advances to customers 74,109 88,927 Debt securities 80,063 69,470 Equity securities 2,655 4,644 Other 1,838 213 Assets pledged at 31 Dec 183,260 184,777 Assets pledged as collateral include all assets categorised as encumbered in the disclosure on page 76.
The amount of assets pledged to secure liabilities may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral.
For example, in the case of securitisations and covered bonds, the amount of liabilities issued plus mandatory  is less than the book value of the pool of assets available for use as collateral.
This is also the case where assets are placed with a custodian or a settlement agent which has a floating charge over all the assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard securities lending and borrowing, repurchase agreements and derivative margining.
HSBC places both cash and non-cash collateral in relation to derivative transactions.
Financial assets pledged as collateral which the counterparty has the right to sell or repledge 2016 2015 $m $m Trading assets 37,141 32,633 Financial investments 4,044 8,050 At 31 Dec 41,185 40,683 230 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Collateral received The fair value of assets accepted as collateral, relating primarily to standard securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements and derivative margining, that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default was $250,919m 2015: $222,065m.
The fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged was $149,185m 2015: $139,532m.
HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements and derivative margining.
Assets transferred The assets pledged include transfers to third parties that do not qualify for derecognition, notably secured borrowings such as debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements and equity securities lent under securities lending agreements.
The transferred asset collateral continues to be recognised in full and a related liability, reflecting the Groups obligation to repurchase the assets for a fixed price at a future date is also recognised on the balance sheet.
The Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the transaction, and remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged assets.
With the exception of Other sales in the table below, the counterpartys recourse is not limited to the transferred assets.
Transferred financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities Carrying amount of: Fair value of: Transferred Associated Transferred Associated Net assets liabilities assets liabilities position $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2016 Repurchase agreements 40,364 39,568 Securities lending agreements 3,324 2,655 Other sales recourse to transferred assets only 2,441 2,466 2,455 2,458 3 At 31 Dec 2015 Repurchase agreements 36,153 35,913 Securities lending agreements 5,275 5,704 Other sales recourse to transferred assets only 2,717 2,768 2,720 2,726 6 17 Interests in associates and joint ventures Associates At 31 December 2016, the carrying amount of HSBCs interests in associates was $19,874m 2015: $18,900m.
Principal associates of HSBC 2016 2015 Carrying Carrying Fair Fair 1 1 amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Bank of Communications Co. Limited 15,765 10,207 15,344 9,940 The Saudi British Bank 3,280 3,999 3,021 3,957 At 31 Dec 19,045 14,206 18,365 13,897 1 The fair values are based on the quoted market prices of the shares held Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
At 31 Dec 2016 Country of incorporation and HSBCs principal place of Principal interest Footnote business activity % 1 Bank of Communications Co. Limited PRC Banking services 19.03 The Saudi British Bank Saudi Arabia Banking services 40.00 1 Peoples Republic of China.
A list of all associates and joint ventures is set out on page 271.
Bank of Communications Co. Limited The Groups significant influence in Bank of Communications Co. Limited BoCom was established via representation on BoComs board of directors and a technical cooperation and exchange programme TCEP.
Under the TCEP, a number of HSBC staff have been seconded to assist in the maintenance of BoComs financial and operating policies.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 231 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Impairment testing At 31 December 2016, the fair value of HSBCs investment in BoCom had been below the carrying amount for approximately 56 months.
As a result, the Group performed an impairment test on the carrying amount of the investment in BoCom, which confirmed there was no impairment at 31December 2016.
At 31 Dec 2016 At 31 Dec 2015 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair VIU value value VIU value value $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn Bank of Communications Co. Limited 16.1 15.8 10.2 17.0 15.3 9.9 Basis of recoverable amount The impairment test was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of BoCom, determined by a value in use VIU calculation, with its carrying amount.
The VIU calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on managements estimates of earnings.
Cash flows beyond the short to medium term are extrapolated in perpetuity using a long-term growth rate.
An imputed capital maintenance charge CMC is calculated to reflect expected regulatory capital requirements, and is deducted from forecast cash flows.
The principal inputs to the CMC calculation include estimates of asset growth, the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets, and the expected regulatory capital requirements.
Management judgement is required in estimating the future cash flows of BoCom.
Key assumptions in value in use calculation The assumptions we used in our VIU calculation were: Long-term profit growth rate 5% 2015: 5% for periods after 2019, which does not exceed forecast GDP growth in mainland China.
Long-term asset growth rate: 4% 2015: 4% for periods after 2019, which is the rate that assets are expected to grow to achieve long-term profit growth of 5%.
Discount rate: 13% 2015: 13%, which is derived from a range of values obtained by applying a capital asset pricing model CAPM calculation for BoCom, using market data.
Management also compares rates derived from the CAPM with discount rates from external sources, and HSBCs discount rate for evaluating investments in mainland China.
The discount rate used was within the range of 10.2% to 15.0% 2015: 10.1% to 14.2% indicated by the CAPM and external sources.
Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances: a range from 0.72% to 0.87% 2015: 0.71% to 0.78% in the short to medium term, based on forecasts disclosed by external analysts.
For periods after 2019, the ratio is 0.70% 2015: 0.70%, slightly higher than the historical average.
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets: 62% for all forecast periods 2015: 67%.
This is consistent with the mediumterm forecasts disclosed by external analysts.
Cost-income ratio: 40% 2015: 41% in the short to medium term.
The ratios were consistent with the shortto medium-term range forecasts of 39.9% to 40.2% 2015: 40.3% to 40.7% disclosed by external analysts.
The following table shows the change to each key assumption in the VIU calculation that on its own would reduce the headroom tonil.
Key assumption Changes to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil Long-term profit growth rate Decrease by 13 basis points Long-term asset growth rate Increase by 14 basis points Discount rate Increase by 17 basis points Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances Increase by 3 basis points Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets Increase by 95 basis points Cost-income ratio Increase by 60 basis points 232 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The following table illustrates the effect on VIU of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions.
This reflects the sensitivity of the VIU to each key assumption on its own, and it is possible that more than one favourable and or unfavourable change will occur at the same time.
Sensitivity of VIU to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions Favourable change Unfavourable change Increase Decrease in VIU VIU In VIU VIU bps $bn $bn bps $bn $bn At 31 Dec 2016 Long-term profit growth rate 16.1 150 3.3 12.8 Long-term asset growth rate 80 1.8 17.8 16.1 Discount rate 100 2.3 18.4 16.1 2016-19: 0.93% Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances 16.1 2020 onwards: 0.80% 1.1 15.0 Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets 30 0.1 16.2 170 0.6 15.5 Cost-income ratio 170 0.9 17.0 250 1.4 14.7 At 31 Dec 2015 Long-term profit growth rate 100 3.2 20.3 210 4.7 12.3 Long-term asset growth rate 50 1.2 18.2 100 2.8 14.3 Discount rate 150 4.2 21.2 110 2.1 14.9 70 2015-18: 0.85% Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances throughout 0.1 17.2 2019 onwards: 0.75% 0.7 16.4 Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets 350 1.2 18.2 10 17 Cost income ratio 250 1.5 18.5 120 0.7 16.4 Considering the interrelationship of the changes set out in the table above, management estimates that the reasonably possible range of VIU is $10.8bn to $19.0bn.
Selected financial information of BoCom The statutory accounting reference date of BoCom is 31 December.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, HSBC included the associates results on the basis of financial statements for the 12 months ended 30 September 2016, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2016 to 31 December 2016 that would have materially affected the results.
Selected balance sheet information of BoCom At 30 Sep 2016 2015 $m $m Cash and balances at central banks 137,844 144,702 Loans and advances to banks and other financial institutions 101,436 110,915 Loans and advances to customers 566,126 560,503 Other financial assets 311,207 244,722 Other assets 48,922 49,246 Total assets 1,165,535 1,110,088 Deposits by banks and other financial institutions 297,442 261,211 Customer accounts 680,915 691,959 Other financial liabilities 69,954 46,932 Other liabilities 27,860 29,329 Total liabilities 1,076,171 1,029,431 Total equity 89,364 80,657 Reconciliation of BoComs total shareholders equity to the carrying amount in HSBCs consolidated financial statements At 30 Sep 2016 2015 $m $m HSBCs share of total shareholders equity 15,285 14,824 Add: Goodwill and other intangible assets 480 520 Carrying amount 15,765 15,344 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 233 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Selected income statement information of BoCom For the 12 months ended 30 Sep 2016 2015 $m $m Net interest income 20,614 22,397 Net fee and commission income 5,493 5,432 Loan impairment charges 4,284 3,772 Depreciation and amortisation 1,216 1,012 Tax expense 2,800 2,976 Profit for the year 10,151 10,634 Other comprehensive income 875 377 Total comprehensive income 11,026 11,011 Dividends received from BoCom 580 624 Summarised aggregate financial information for all associates excluding BoCom 2016 2015 $m $m Carrying amount 4,109 3,556 HSBCs share of: total assets 20,757 21,645 total liabilities 16,661 18,166 revenues 923 821 profit or loss from continuing operations 454 508 Joint ventures At 31 December 2016, the carrying amount of HSBCs interests in joint ventures was $155m 2015: $239m.
Associates and joint ventures For the year ended 31 December 2016, HSBCs share of associates and joint ventures tax on profit was $542m 2015: $575m.
This is included within Share of profit in associates and joint ventures in the Consolidated income statement.
Movements in interests in associates and joint ventures 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m At 1 Jan 19,139 18,181 Additions 76 3 Disposals 25 8 Share of results 2,354 2,556 Dividends 751 879 Exchange differences 1,115 718 Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 54 9 Other movements 297 13 1 At 31 Dec 20,029 19,139 1 Includes goodwill of $488m 2015: $593m.
234 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 18 Investments in subsidiaries Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings At 31 Dec 2016 Country of incorporation or HSBCs registration interest % Share class Europe England and 1 Ordinary and Preferred Ordinary, $0.01 HSBC Bank plc 100 Non-cumulative third Dollar Preference Shares Wales HSBC France France 99.99 5 Actions HSBC Assurances Vie France France 100 287.50 EUR Ordinary shares HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA Switzerland 100 CHF1,000 Ordinary HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG Germany 80.65 Stckaktien no par value Asia Hang Seng Bank Limited Hong Kong 62.14 HK$5 Ordinary HSBC Bank Australia Limited Australia 100 Ordinary no par value 4 HSBC Bank China Company Limited PRC 100 CNY1 Ordinary HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad Malaysia 100 RM0.50 Ordinary HSBC Bank Taiwan Limited Taiwan 100 TWD10 Ordinary HSBC Life International Limited Bermuda 100 HK$1 Ordinary 1 2 3 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Hong Kong 100 HK$2.50 Ordinary$1 CIP, CRP and NIP HSBC Bank Singapore Limited Singapore 100 SGD100 Ordinary Middle East and North Africa United Arab 2 HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 100 $1 Ordinary and $1 CRP Emirates HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. Egypt 94.53 EGP84 Ordinary North America Common no par value and Preference no par HSBC Bank Canada Canada 100 value HSBC Bank USA, N. A. USA 100 $100 Common and $0.01 Preference HSBC Securities USA Inc. USA 100 $0.05 Common Latin America HSBC Mexico, S. A. Institucin fide Banca Mltiple, Grupo Financiero Mexico 99.99 MXN2 Ordinary HSBC 1 Cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares.
Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in Notes 25 Debt securities in issue, 28 Subordinated liabilities and 31 Non-controlling interests, respectively.
A list of all related undertakings is set out on pages 265 to 271.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, which operates mainly in the Middle East and North Africa, and HSBC Life International Limited, which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities.
Each bank is separately capitalised in accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent with the Groups risk appetite for the relevant country or region.
HSBCs capital management process is incorporated in the Annual Operating Plan, which is approved by the Board.
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings issuance of equity and non-equity capital and by profit retention.
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries.
Subject to this, there is no current or foreseen impediment to HSBC Holdings ability to provide funding for such investments.
During 2016, consistent with the Group's capital plan, the Groups subsidiaries did not experience any significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned dividends or payments.
However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other HSBC Group entities is set out in Note 33.
Information on structured entities consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights is included in Note 19 Structured entities.
In each of these cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 235 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests 2016 2015 Hang Seng Bank Limited Proportion of ownership interests and voting rights held by non-controlling interests 37.86% 37.86% Place of business Hong Kong Hong Kong $m $m Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 814 1,364 Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary 5,792 5,866 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 811 523 Summarised financial information: total assets 175,242 169,813 total liabilities 159,035 153,458 net operating income before loan impairment 3,937 5,411 profit for the year 2,148 3,604 total comprehensive income for the year 2,044 1,636 19 Structured entities HSBC is mainly involved with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities through the securitisation of financial assets, conduits and investment funds, established either by HSBC or a third party.
Consolidated structured entities Total assets of HSBCs consolidated structured entities, split by entity type HSBC Conduits Securitisations managed funds Other Total $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn At 31 Dec 2016 15.8 5.7 4.8 3.7 30.0 At 31 Dec 2015 25.9 5.6 8.2 5.7 45.4 Conduits HSBC has established and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits SICs and multi-seller conduits.
Securities investment conduits The SICs purchase highly rated ABSs to facilitate tailored investment opportunities.
Solitaire At 31 December 2016, Solitaire, HSBCs principal SIC held $4.7bn of ABSs 2015: $6.2bn.
These are included within the disclosures of ABSs on page 105.
It is currently funded entirely by commercial paper CP issued to HSBC.
Although HSBC continues to provide a liquidity facility, Solitaire has no need to draw on it as long as HSBC purchases its issued CP, which HSBC intends to do for the foreseeable future.
Mazarin, Barion and Malachite All three SICs are predominantly funded by repurchase agreements and medium-term notes.
HSBC is exposed to the par value of Mazarin assets through the provision of a liquidity facility equal to the lesser of the amortised cost of issued debt and the amortised cost of non-defaulted assets.
HSBCs primary exposure to Barion and Malachite is represented by the amortised cost of the debt required to support the non-cash assets of the vehicles.
For all three SICs first loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by these vehicles, which are held substantially by third parties.
At 31December 2016, HSBC held 12.2% of the capital notes 2015: 7.2% issued by these vehicles with a par value of $69.5m 2015: $55.2m and a carrying amount of $27.9m 2015: $24.7m.
Multi-seller conduit HSBCs multi-seller conduit was established to provide access to flexible market-based sources of finance for its clients.
Currently, HSBC bears risk equal to the transaction-specific liquidity facility offered to the multi-seller conduit, amounting to $10.2bn at 31December 2016 2015: $19.8bn.
First loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements.
A layer of secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC in the form of programme-wide enhancement facilities.
Securitisations HSBC uses structured entities to securitise customer loans and advances it originates in order to diversify its sources of funding for asset origination and capital efficiency purposes.
The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the structured entities for cash or synthetically through credit default swaps, and the structured entities issue debt securities to investors.
HSBC managed funds HSBC has established a number of money market and non-money market funds.
Where it is deemed to be acting as principal rather than agent in its role as investment manager, HSBC controls these funds.
236 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Other HSBC has also entered into a number of transactions in the normal course of business which include asset and structured finance transactions where it has control of the structured entity.
In addition, HSBC is deemed to control anumber of third-party managed funds through its involvement as a principal in the funds.
Unconsolidated structured entities The term unconsolidated structured entities refers to all structured entities not controlled by HSBC.
The Group entersinto transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment opportunities.
Nature and risks associated with HSBC interests in unconsolidated structured entities HSBC Non-HSBC Securitisations managed funds managed funds Other Total $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn Total assets of the entities 14.4 200.6 2,016.5 106.3 2,337.8 Total assets in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 2.4 7.1 8.3 10.1 27.9 trading assets 0.4 0.1 2.1 2.6 financial assets designated at fair value 5.9 7.5 13.4 derivatives 3.9 3.9 loans and advances to banks 0.4 0.4 loans and advances to customers 2.4 3.2 5.6 financial investments 0.8 0.7 0.2 1.7 other assets 0.3 0.3 Total liabilities in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.3 0.3 derivatives 0.1 0.1 other liabilities 0.2 0.2 HSBCs maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2016 2.4 7.1 11 13.5 34 Total assets of the entities 12.9 227.9 2,003.1 139.9 2,383.8 Total assets in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 1.4 5.6 8.0 9.8 24.8 trading assets 0.1 0.2 2.6 2.9 financial assets designated at fair value 5.3 6.6 11.9 derivatives 3.8 3.8 loans and advances to banks 0.1 0.1 loans and advances to customers 1.1 0.1 2.9 4.1 financial investments 0.3 0.2 1.1 0.2 1.8 other assets 0.2 0.2 Total liabilities in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.1 0.1 other liabilities 0.1 0.1 HSBCs maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2015 3.5 5.6 8.0 14.6 31.7 The maximum exposure to loss from HSBCs interests in unconsolidated structured entities represents the maximum loss it could incur as a result of its involvement with these entities regardless of the probability of the loss being incurred.
For commitments, guarantees and written credit default swaps, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future losses.
For retained and purchased investments in and loans to unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss is the carrying value of these interests at the balance sheet reporting date.
The maximum exposure to loss is stated gross of the effects of hedging and collateral arrangements entered into to mitigate HSBCs exposure to loss.
Securitisations HSBC has interests in unconsolidated securitisation vehicles through holding notes issued by these entities.
In addition, HSBC has investments in ABSs issued by third party structured entities as set out on page 105.
HSBC managed funds HSBC establishes and manages money market funds and non-money market investment funds to provide customers with investment opportunities.
Further information on funds under management is provided on page 61.
HSBC, as fund manager, may be entitled to receive management and performance fees based on the assets under management.
HSBC may also retain units in these funds.
Non-HSBC managed funds HSBC purchases and holds units of third-party managed funds in order to facilitate business and meet customer needs.
In addition, HSBC enters into derivative contracts to facilitate risk management solutions for non-HSBC managed funds.
Note14 provides information on derivatives entered into by HSBC.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 237 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Other HSBC has established structured entities in the normal course of business, such as structured credit transactions for customers, to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance transactions.
HSBC sponsored structured entities The amount of assets transferred to and income received from such sponsored entities during 2016 and 2015 were not significant.
20 Goodwill and intangible assets 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m Goodwill 12,330 16,294 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 6,502 5,685 1 Other intangible assets 2,514 2,626 At 31 Dec 21,346 24,605 1 Included within other intangible assets is internally generated software with a net carrying value of $1,982m 2015: $1,934m.
Movement analysis of goodwill 2016 2015 $m $m Gross amount At 1 Jan 22,187 25,092 Exchange differences 562 1,610 Reclassified to held for sale 183 1,319 Other 3 24 At 31 Dec 21,445 22,187 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 Jan 5,893 5,923 Impairment losses 3,240 Other 18 30 At 31 Dec 9,115 5,893 Net carrying amount at 31 Dec 12,330 16,294 Impairment testing The Groups impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash generating unit CGU is performed as at 1 July each year.
A review for indicators of impairment is undertaken at each subsequent quarter-end and as at 31 December 2016.
Subsequent to the 1 July 2016 annual test the CGU for Global Banking and Markets was amended from a regional to a global basis.
This change is discussed further below.
30 June and 31 December 2016 impairment indicators review At 30 June 2016, we reviewed the inputs used in our 2015 impairment tests in the light of current economic and market conditions.
As a result, impairment tests were performed for Global Private Banking Europe and Global Banking and Markets Europe.
Following these tests an impairment of $0.8bn was recognised in respect of the Global Private Banking Europe.
At 31 December 2016, we reviewed the inputs used in our 1 July 2016 impairment test and identified that indicators of impairment existed within the Global Private Banking Europe CGU.
There were no indicators of impairment in respect of our other CGUs at this time.
Refreshed cash flow projections that became available for Global Private Banking Europe were significantly adverse when compared to those used in the 1 July 2016 impairment test.
The reduction in cash flow forecasts is driven by the continuing repositioning of the business and lower net new money and associated return on asset expectations.
As a result, an impairment test was performed resulting in an impairment of $2.4bn.
The assumptions and results of the Global Private Banking Europe tests are presented below: Nominal growth rate beyond initial Carrying of which Discount cash flow amount goodwill Value in use Impairment rate projections $bn $bn $bn $bn % % 30 Jun 2016 4.4 3.3 3.6 0.8 9.7 2.8 31 Dec 2016 3.5 2.4 1.1 2.4 9.7 2.8 2016 impairment recognised 3.2 Basis of the recoverable amount The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use VIU at each respective testing date for 2015 and 2016.
For each CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting managements cash flow projections for the CGU.
The key assumptions used in the VIU calculation for each significant CGU are discussed below.
238 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Key assumptions in VIU calculation Nominal Nominal growth rate growth rate beyond initial beyond initial cash flow Discount cash flow Goodwill at Discount Goodwill at Goodwill at 1 Jul 2016 rate projections 1 Jul 2015 31 Dec 2015 rate projections Footnote $m % % $m $m % % Cash-generating unit Europe RBWM 3,446 8.9 3.6 3,562 6.9 3.3 GB&M 2,520 10.7 3.8 2,690 9.9 3.5 CMB 2,517 9.7 3.8 2,603 9.0 3.6 North America 1 GB&M 918 10.0 4.6 929 931 10.0 4.3 Latin America RBWM 584 11.0 7.4 792 11.0 6.9 1 GB&M North America comparative discount rate and nominal growth rate beyond initial cash flow project rates are as at 31 December 2015.
At 1 July 2016, aggregate goodwill of $3,025m 1 July 2015: $2,787m had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually significant.
The Groups CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill.
Managements judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU: The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on plans approved by the GMB.
For the goodwill impairment test conducted at 1 July 2016, managements cash flow projections until the end of 2020 were used.
Discount rate: The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a capital asset pricing model CAPM.
CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are based on the markets assessment of the economic variables and managements judgement.
The discount rates for each CGU are refined to reflect the rates of inflation for the countries within which the CGU operate.
In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with cost of capital rates produced by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets.
For the purpose of goodwill testing as at 1July 2016, all European CGUs include a 100bps uplift to reflect the increased risk in European markets following the UK referendum on membership of the EU.
Nominal long-term growth rate: The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the perspective within the Group of business units making up the CGUs.
These growth rates reflect GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates or derives revenue from.
Global Banking and Markets CGU basis As described on page 44, the Group has changed its operating segments from a geographical region to a global businesses basis, and this change prompted a review of the goodwill allocation.
Following this review it has been determined that Global Banking and Markets should be assessed as a single CGU rather than on a regional basis reflecting the global management and customer base of this business.
An analysis was performed and Global Banking and Markets is considered to have significant headroom to support its goodwill.
All other CGUs remain unchanged.
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU At 1 July 2016, Retail Banking and Wealth Management Europe was sensitive to reasonably possible adverse changes in the discount rate, growth rate or managements projections of cash flows assumptions supporting the recoverable amount.
Changes in one or more of these assumptions could cause an impairment to be recognised.
In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to the model such as the external range of discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.
The following table presents a summary of the key assumptions underlying the most sensitive inputs to the model for this CGU: the key risks attached: and details of a reasonably possible change to assumptions where, in the opinion of management, these could result in an impairment.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 239 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Reasonably possible changes in key assumptions Input Key assumptions Associated risks Reasonably possible change Cash-generating unit RBWM Europe Cash flow Level of interest rates and Uncertain regulatory Cash flow projections decrease projections yield curves.
This does not result in an impairment.
Competitors position within Customer remediation and the market.
Level and change in unemployment rates.
Discount Discount rate used is a External evidence suggests Discount rate increases by reasonable estimate of a that the rate used is not 100bps.
rate suitable market rate for the appropriate to the business.
Long-term Business growth will reflect Growth does not match GDP Real GDP growth does not growth rates GDP growth rates in the long or there is a fall in GDP occuror is not reflected in term.
Sensitivity of VIU to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions and changes to current assumptions to achieve nil headroom RBWM Europe At 1 Jul 2016 $bn In $ billions unless otherwise stated Carrying amount 16.6 VIU 19.7 Reasonably possible change in key assumption Discount rate bps 100 Cash flows % 10 Long-term growth rates bps 162 Impact on VIU Discount rate 3.1 Cash flows 2.0 Long-term growth rates 3.9 Cumulative impact of all changes 7.3 Changes to current assumptions to achieve nil headroom Discount rate bps 102 Cash flows % 15.8 Long-term growth rates bps 122 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business When calculating the present value of in-force insurance business PVIF, expected cash flows are projected after adjusting for a variety of assumptions made by each insurance operation to reflect local market conditions and managements judgement of future trends, and after applying risk margins to reflect any uncertainty in the underlying assumptions.
Variations in actual experience and changes to assumptions can contribute to volatility in the results of the insurance business.
Actuarial Control Committees of each key insurance entity meet on a quarterly basis to review and approve PVIF assumptions.
All changes to non-economic assumptions, economic assumptions that are not observable and model methodology must be approved by the Actuarial Control Committee.
Movements in PVIF 2016 2015 Footnotes $m $m PVIF at 1 Jan 5,685 5,307 Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business 902 799 value of new business written during the year 900 809 1 expected return 532 552 assumption changes and experience variances see below 513 504 other adjustments 21 38 2 Transfer of assets classified as held for sale 45 219 Exchange differences and other 40 202 PVIF at 31 Dec 6,502 5,685 1 Expected return represents the unwinding of the discount rate and reversal of expected cash flows for the period.
2 Relates to the Brazilian insurance operations which were classified as held for sale in 2015.
Assumption changes and experience adjustments Included within this line item are: $279m 2015: $114m, directly offsetting interest rate-driven changes to liabilities under insurance contracts.
$301m 2015: $209m, reflecting the future sharing of returns with policyholders on contracts with discretionary participation features DPF, to the extent this sharing is not already included in liabilities under insurance contracts.
$ 67 m 2015: $181m, driven by other changes in assumptions and experience variances to projected future profits.
240 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations Economic assumptions are set in a way that is consistent with observable market values.
The valuation of PVIF is sensitive to observed market movements and the impact of such changes is included in the sensitivities presented below.
2016 2015 1 1 Hong Kong France Hong Kong France % % % % Weighted average risk free rate 2.09 0.99 1.82 1.57 Weighted average risk discount rate 6.34 1.84 6.81 2.55 Expense inflation 3.00 1.66 3.00 1.70 1 For 2016, the calculation of Frances PVIF assumes a risk discount rate of 1.84% 2015: 2.55% plus a risk margin of $101m 2015: $51m.
Sensitivity to changes in economic assumptions The Group sets the risk discount rate applied to the PVIF calculation by starting from a risk-free rate curve and adding explicit allowances for risks not reflected in the best estimate cash flow modelling.
Where the insurance operations provide options and guarantees to policyholders the cost of these options and guarantees is an explicit reduction to PVIF, unless it is already allowed for as an explicit addition to the technical provisions required by regulators.
See page 123 for further details of these guarantees and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Sensitivity to changes in non-economic assumptions Policyholder liabilities and PVIF are determined by reference to non-economic assumptions including mortality and or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
See page 125 for further details on the impact of changes in non-economic assumptions on our insurance manufacturing operations.
21 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2016 2015 $m $m Prepayments and accrued income 7,335 7,765 Bullion 15,406 11,501 Endorsements and acceptances 8,574 9,149 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts Note 3 1,820 1,378 Employee benefit assets Note 5 4,714 5,272 Other accounts 12,298 9,410 Property, plant and equipment 9,373 9,923 At 31 Dec 59,520 54,398 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets include $26,927 2015: $25,310m of financial assets, the majority of which are measured at amortised cost.
22 Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 2016 2015 $m $m Held for sale at 31 Dec Disposal groups 1,882 41,715 Non-current assets held for sale 2,507 2,185 Total assets 4,389 43,900 Liabilities of disposal groups 2,790 36,840 Disposal groups Brazil On 1 July 2016, we completed the sale of our operations in Brazil to Banco Bradesco S. A. for a cash consideration of $4.8bn.
This resulted in a loss on disposal of $1.7bn which includes the reclassification of cumulative foreign exchange differences of $1.9bn.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 241 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 23 Trading liabilities 2016 2015 Footnotes $m $m 1 Deposits by banks 24,827 27,054 1, 2 Customer accounts 45,085 40,208 3 Other debt securities in issue Note 25 32,656 30,525 Other liabilities net short positions in securities 51,123 43,827 At 31 Dec 153,691 141,614 1 Deposits by banks and Customer accounts include repos, settlement accounts, stock lending and other amounts.
2 Structured deposits placed at HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Trust Company Delaware National Association are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a US government agency, up to $250,000 per depositor.
3 Other debt securities in issue comprises structured notes issued by HSBC for which market risks are actively managed as part of trading portfolios.
At 31 December 2016, the cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBCs credit risk was a gain of $2m 2015: gain of $122m.
24 Financial liabilities designated at fair value HSBC 2016 2015 $m $m Deposits by banks and customer accounts 135 193 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 6,002 6,027 Debt securities in issue Note 25 57,112 37,678 Subordinated liabilities Note 28 23,172 21,168 Preferred securities Note 28 411 1,342 At 31 Dec 86,832 66,408 The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $4,413m more than the contractual amount at maturity 2015: $4,147m more.
The cumulative own credit loss recognised was $1,672m 2015: gain of $158m.
HSBC Holdings 2016 2015 $m $m Debt securities in issue Note 25 16,766 7,897 Subordinated liabilities Note 28 13,347 11,956 At 31 Dec 30,113 19,853 The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $2,681m more than the contractual amount at maturity 2015: $2,127m more.
The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of $1,202m 2015: loss of $172m.
25 Debt securities in issue HSBC 2016 2015 $m $m Bonds and medium-term notes 133,721 128,348 Other debt securities in issue 21,962 28,804 Total debt securities in issue 155,683 157,152 Included within: trading liabilities Note 23 32,656 30,525 financial liabilities designated at fair value Note 24 57,112 37,678 At 31 Dec 65,915 88,949 HSBC Holdings 2016 2015 $m $m Debt securities 38,571 8,857 Included within: financial liabilities designated at fair value Note 24 16,766 7,897 At 31 Dec 21,805 960 242 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 26 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2016 2015 $m $m Accruals and deferred income 10,770 11,129 Endorsements and acceptances 8,567 9,135 Employee benefit liabilities Note 5 2,681 2,809 Other liabilities 19,483 15,043 At 31 Dec 41,501 38,116 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities include $30,932m 2015: $29,358m of financial liabilities, the majority of which are measured at amortised cost.
Legal proceedings include: civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies whether by way of claim or counterclaim : or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings.
Regulatory matters refers to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.
Customer remediation refers to HSBCs activities to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations or to treat customers fairly.
Customer remediation is often initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and or industry developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by regulatory action.
Further details of customer remediation are set out in this note.
Payment protection insurance At 31 December 2016, a provision of $919m 2015: $1,039m was held relating to the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of payment protection insurance PPI policies in previous years.
Cumulative provisions made since the Judicial Review ruling in the first half of 2011 amount to $5.1bn, of which $4.1bn has been paid as at 31 December 2016.
An increase in provisions of $492m was recognised during the year, primarily reflecting a delay to the inception of the expected time bar on inbound complaints: and an anticipated adjustment to the redress parameters surrounding Plevin a 2014 decision of the UK Supreme Court which held that, judged on its own facts, non-disclosure of the amounts of commissions payable in connection with the sale of PPI to a customer created an unfair relationship under the provisions of the UK Consumer Credit Act.
The estimated liability for redress is calculated on the basis of the total premiums paid by the customer plus simple interest of 8% per annum or the rate inherent in the related loan product where higher.
The basis for calculating the redress liability is the same for single premium and regular premium policies.
Future estimated redress levels are based on the historically observed redress per policy.
A total of 5.4 million PPI policies have been sold since 2000, generating estimated revenues of $3.5bn at 2016 average exchange rates.
The gross written premiums on these policies were approximately $4.6bn.
At 31 December 2016, the estimated total complaints expected to be received were 2.0 million, representing 37% of total policies sold.
It is estimated that contact will be made with regard to 2.4 million policies, representing 45% of total policies sold.
This estimate includes inbound complaints as well as the group's proactive contact exercise on certain policies outbound contact.
The following table details the cumulative number of complaints received at 31 December 2016 and the number of claims expected in the future: HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 243 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Cumulative PPI complaints received to 31 December 2016 and future claims expected Cumulative actual to Future 31 Dec 2016 expected Footnotes 1 Inbound complaints 000s of policies 1,363 320 Outbound contact 000s of policies 725 Response rate to outbound contact 42% n a 2 Average uphold rate per claim 76% 84% Average redress per claim $ 2,670 2,702 Complaints to Financial Ombudsman Service 000s of policies 138 47 Average uphold rate per Financial Ombudsman Service claim 41% 55% 1 Excludes invalid claims for which no PPI policy exists.
2 Claims include inbound and responses to outbound contact.
A 100,000 increase decrease in the total inbound complaints would increase decrease the redress provision by approximately $203m at 2016 average exchange rates.
Each 1% increase decrease in the response rate to our outbound contact exercise would increase decrease the redress provision by approximately $12m.
28 Subordinated liabilities HSBC 2016 2015 $m $m At amortised cost 20,984 22,702 subordinated liabilities 19,230 20,773 preferred securities 1,754 1,929 Designated at fair value Note 24 23,583 22,510 subordinated liabilities 23,172 21,168 preferred securities 411 1,342 At 31 Dec 44,567 45,212 Issued by HSBC subsidiaries 16,860 19,150 Issued by HSBC Holdings 27,707 26,062 HSBCs subordinated liabilities Subordinated liabilities rank behind senior obligations and generally count towards the capital base of HSBC.
Capital securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator.
If not redeemed at the first call date, coupons payable maystep up orbecome floating rate based on interbank rates.
Oncapital securities other than floating rate notes, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 10.176%.
The balance sheet amounts disclosed below are presented on an IFRSs basis and do not reflect the amount that the instruments contribute to regulatory capital due to the inclusion of issuance costs, regulatory amortisation and regulatory eligibility limits prescribed in the grandfathering provisions under CRD IV.
244 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HSBCs subordinated liabilities in issue First call Maturity 2016 2015 Footnotes date date $m $m 1 Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings plc 2 750m 5.13% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Mar 2016 856 $900m 10.176% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities, series 2 Jun 2030 891 891 1,747 891 1 Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc 300m 5.862% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Apr 2020 411 488 700m 5.844% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Nov 2031 863 1,038 1,274 1,526 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank plc 3 350m 5.00% callable subordinated notes Mar 2018 Mar 2023 466 562 300m 6.50% subordinated notes Jul 2023 369 444 4 350m 5.375% callable subordinated step-up notes Nov 2025 Nov 2030 489 569 500m 5.375% subordinated notes Aug 2033 750 846 225m 6.25% subordinated notes Jan 2041 276 332 600m 4.75% subordinated notes Mar 2046 731 879 $300m 7.65% subordinated notes May 2025 372 386 $750m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Jun 1990 750 750 $500m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Sep 1990 500 500 $300m Undated floating rate primary capital notes, series 3 Jun 1992 300 300 5,003 5,568 Tier 2 securities issued by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd 5 $400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes Aug 1990 401 $400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes third series Jul 1991 400 400 400 801 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad MYR500m 4.35% subordinated bonds Jun 2017 Jun 2022 112 116 MYR500m 5.05% subordinated bonds Nov 2022 Nov 2027 112 116 224 232 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC USA Inc. $750m 5.00% subordinated notes Sep 2020 748 747 $250m 7.20% subordinated debentures Jul 2097 220 220 6 Other subordinated liabilities each less than $150m 284 299 1,252 1,266 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
$500m 6.00% subordinated notes Aug 2017 498 502 $1,250m 4.875% subordinated notes Aug 2020 1,257 1,258 $1,000m 5.875% subordinated notes Nov 2034 1,137 1,142 $750m 5.625% subordinated notes Aug 2035 862 850 $700m 7.00% subordinated notes Jan 2039 701 691 4,455 4,443 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Finance Corporation 7 $2,939m 6.676% senior subordinated notes Jan 2021 2,192 2,188 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Canada CAD400m 4.80% subordinated debentures Apr 2017 Apr 2022 299 298 5 CAD200m 4.94% subordinated debentures Mar 2016 Mar 2021 144 Other subordinated liabilities each less than $150m Oct 1996 Nov 2083 29 29 328 471 Securities issued by HSBC Mexico, S. A.
8, 9 $300m Non-convertible subordinated obligations Jun 2014 Jun 2019 240 240 8 Other subordinated liabilities each less than $150m 198 236 438 476 Securities issued by other HSBC subsidiaries 6 Other subordinated liabilities each less than $200m 403 432 Subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries at 31 Dec 16,860 19,150 1 See paragraph below, Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc.
2 In February 2016, HSBC gave notice that it will call and redeem the 750m 5.13% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities.
3 The interest rate payable after March 2018 is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80 percentage points.
4 The interest rate payable after November 2025 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.50 percentage points.
5 In January 2016, HSBC called and redeemed $400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes and CAD200m 4.94% subordinated debentures.
6 Some securities included here are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with CRD IV rules.
7 Approximately $731m of the senior subordinated notes are held by HSBC Holdings.
8 These securities are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with CRD IV rules.
9 Approximately $60m of the subordinated obligations are held by HSBC Holdings.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 245 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements HSBC Holdings 2016 2015 $m $m At amortised cost 15,189 15,895 Designated at fair value Note 24 13,347 11,956 At 31 Dec 28,536 27,851 HSBC Holdings subordinated liabilities First call Maturity 2016 2015 Footnotes date date $m $m Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Holdings plc Amounts owed to third parties 1 $488m 7.625% subordinated notes May 2032 528 531 1 $222m 7.35% subordinated notes Nov 2032 278 278 1 $2,000m 6.5% subordinated notes May 2036 2,029 2,029 1 $2,500m 6.5% subordinated notes Sep 2037 3,170 3,085 1 $1,500m 6.8% subordinated notes Jun 2038 1,487 1,487 2,4 $2,000m 4.25% subordinated notes Mar 2024 2,060 2,078 2,4 $1,500m 5.25% subordinated notes Mar 2044 1,747 1,735 2 $1,500m 4.25% subordinated notes Jun 2025 1,539 1,529 2 $1,500m 4.375% subordinated notes Nov 2026 1,520 1,3 900m 6.375% callable subordinated notes Oct 2017 Oct 2022 1,163 1,432 2 650m 5.75% subordinated notes Dec 2027 932 1,079 2 650m 6.75% subordinated notes Sep 2028 793 955 2 750m 7.0% subordinated notes Apr 2038 971 1,159 2 900m 6.0% subordinated notes Mar 2040 1,086 1,310 2 1,600m 6.25% subordinated notes Mar 2018 1,693 1,748 2 1,750m 6.0% subordinated notes Jun 2019 2,168 2,284 2 1,500m 3.0% subordinated notes Jun 2025 1,716 1,691 2 1,500m 3.125% subordinated notes Jun 2028 1,139 2,4 1,500m 3.375% subordinated notes Jan 2019 Jan 2024 1,626 1,694 27,645 26,104 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 750m 5.13% fixed floating subordinated notes Mar 2016 Dec 2044 856 $900m 10.176% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2030 Jun 2040 891 891 891 1,747 At 31 Dec 28,536 27,851 1 Amounts owed to third parties represent securities included in the capital base of HSBC as tier 2 securities in accordance with the grandfathering provisions under CRD IV rules.
2 These securities are included in the capital base of HSBC as fully CRD IV compliant tier 2 securities on an end point basis.
3 The interest rate payable after October 2017 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.3 percentage points.
4 These subordinated notes are measured at amortised cost in HSBC Holdings, where the interest rate risk is hedged using a fair value hedge, while they are measured at fair value in the Group.
Additional tier 1 capital securities Additional tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred or cancelled at the discretion of HSBC Holdings.
The securities presented in this Note are accounted for as liabilities because HSBC has an obligation to pay dividends in perpetuity.
See Note 35 for additional tier 1 capital securities accounted for as equity.
The additional tier 1 securities presented in this section do not meet the identifying criteria in full for recognition as tier 1 capital under CRD IV but are eligible as regulatory capital subject to grandfathering limits and progressive phase-out.
Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc These capital securities were issued by the Jersey limited partnerships and proceeds lent to the respective guarantors by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes.
They qualify as additional tier 1 capital for HSBC under CRD IV by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions, and the two capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank also qualify as additional tier1 capital for HSBC Bank on a solo and a consolidated basis under CRD IV by virtue of the same grandfathering process.
These preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with economic rights equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares ofthe relevant issuer.
There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBCs capital adequacy requirements or if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank has insufficient distributable reserves as defined.
HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank have individually covenanted that if prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, they will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect oftheir ordinary shares, or repurchase or redeem their ordinary shares, until the distribution on the preferred securities has been paid in full.
Preference shares of HSBC Holdings that have economic terms equal in all material respects to the preferred securities and their guarantee together will be substituted for the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings if the total capital ratio of HSBC Holdings falls below the regulatory minimum required, or the Directors expect it to in the near term.
246 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Preference shares of HSBC Bank that have economic terms equal in all material respects to the preferred securities and their guarantee together will be substituted for the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank if any of the two issues of preferred securities are outstanding in April 2049 or November 2048, respectively: or the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum required, or the Directors expect it to in the near term.
Tier 2 capital securities These capital securities are included within HSBCs regulatory capital base as tier 2 capital under CRD IV by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions with the exception of identified HSBC Holding securities which are compliant with CRD IV end point rules.
Tier 2 capital securities are either perpetual subordinated securities or dated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons.
In accordance with CRD IV, the capital contribution of all tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory purposes in their final five years before maturity.
29 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments The table on page 248 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual maturity at the balance sheet date.
These balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows: Trading assets and liabilities including trading derivatives but excluding reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue are included in the Due not more than 1 month time bucket, because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time.
Financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity such as equity securities are included in the Due over 5years time bucket.
Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled to give.
Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the Dueover 5 years time bucket.
Non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction.
Liabilities under insurance contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Liabilities under investment contracts areclassified in accordance with their contractual maturity.
Undated investment contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket, however, such contracts are subject to surrender and transfer options by the policyholders.
Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 249 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements HSBC Holdings Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 247 247 Derivatives 1,702 93 353 2,148 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 16,372 167 14,204 46,678 77,421 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 40 2 838 2,710 3,590 Accrued income and other financial assets 12 107 119 Total financial assets at 31 Dec 2016 18,373 2 167 15,135 49,848 83,525 Non-financial assets 97,273 97,273 Total assets at 31 Dec 2016 18,373 2 167 15,135 147,121 180,798 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,052 105 2,157 Financial liabilities designated at fairvalue 2,167 5,845 22,101 30,113 debt securities in issue 5,845 10,921 16,766 subordinated liabilities and preferred securities 2,167 11,180 13,347 Derivatives 3,841 592 592 5,025 Debt securities in issue 953 4,822 16,030 21,805 Accruals and other financial liabilities 75 1,268 142 22 1,507 Subordinated liabilities 1,693 13,496 15,189 Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2016 5,968 1,268 142 22 4,813 11,364 52,219 75,796 Non-financial liabilities 144 144 Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2016 5,968 1,268 142 22 4,813 11,364 52,363 75,940 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments tolend 250 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments continued Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 242 242 Derivatives 1,990 109 368 2,467 Loans and advances to HSBC 7,805 2,629 4,618 29,298 44,350 undertakings Financial investments in HSBC 40 6 4,239 4,285 undertakings Accrued income and other financial 7 109 116 assets Total financial assets at 31Dec2015 10,084 2,635 4,618 109 34,014 51,460 Non-financial assets 98,734 98,734 Total assets at 31 Dec 2015 10,084 2,635 4,618 109 132,748 150,194 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 1,629 415 108 2,152 Financial liabilities designated at fair 960 2,285 16,608 19,853 value debt securities in issue 6,937 7,897 subordinated liabilities and preferred 2,285 9,671 11,956 securities Derivatives 2,065 213 2,278 Debt securities in issue 960 960 Accruals and other financial liabilities 1,231 195 132 20 1,578 Subordinated liabilities 1,749 14,146 15,895 Total financial liabilities at 31Dec 2015 4,928 1,155 132 20 415 4,247 31,822 42,716 Non-financial liabilities 64 64 Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2015 4,925 1,155 132 20 415 4,247 31,886 42,780 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 251 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 30 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities The Amounts not set off in the balance sheet include transactions where: the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and a master netting or similar arrangement is in place with a right to set off only in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy, or the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied: and in the case of derivatives and reverse repurchase repurchase, stock borrowing lending and similar agreements, cash and noncash collateral has been received pledged.
For risk management purposes, the net amounts of loans and advances to customers are subject to limits, which are monitored and the relevant customer agreements are subject to review and updated, as necessary, to ensure that the legal right to set off remains appropriate.
The amount of cash margin paid that had been offset against the gross derivatives liabilities was $5,862m 2015: $4,224m.
2 For the amount of repos, reverse repos, stock lending, stock borrowing and similar agreements recognised on the balance sheet within 'Trading assets' $10,207m 2015: $7,556m and 'Trading liabilities' $5,071m 2015: $9,301m, see the Funding sources and uses table on page 107.
3 At 31 December 2016, the total amount of 'Loans and advances to customers' was $861,504m 2015: $924,454m of which $31,694m 2015: $45,904m was subject to offsetting.
5 These exposures continue to be secured by financial collateral, but we may not have sought or been able to obtain a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the right of offset.
252 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Non-controlling interests 2016 2015 $m $m Non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries 6,932 6,981 Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries 260 2,077 At 31 Dec 7,192 9,058 Hang Seng Bank Limited is the only subsidiary in the Group that gives rise to significant non-controlling interest.
For summarised financial information of Hang Seng Bank Limited see Note 18 Investment in subsidiaries.
Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries Preferred securities are securities for which there is no obligation to pay a dividend and, if the dividend is not paid, it may not be cumulative.
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for dividend payments and in the event of a winding-up.
These securities have no stated maturity date but may be called and redeemed by the issuer, subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator.
All non-cumulative preferred securities are classified as additional tier 1 capital.
Preferred securities issued by HSBCs subsidiaries 2016 2015 First call date Footnotes $m $m HSBC USA Inc. 1 $518m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series F Apr 2010 518 1 $374m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series G Jan 2011 374 2 $374m 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, series H Jul 2011 374 HSBC Finance Corporation 2 $575m 6.36% non-cumulative preferred stock, series B Jun 2010 559 HSBC Bank Canada C$175m Non-cumulative redeemable class 1 preferred shares, series C Jun 2010 130 126 C$175m Non-cumulative class 1 preferred shares, series D Dec 2010 130 126 At 31 Dec 260 2,077 1 In June 2016, HSBC redeemed its floating non-cumulative preferred stock, series F and G for $892m.
2 In June 2016, HSBC redeemed its non-cumulated preferred stock, series H and B, for $949m.
32 Called up share capital and other equity instruments Called up share capital and share premium HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of $0.50 each, issued and fully paid 2016 2015 Footnote Number $m Number $m At 1 Jan 19,685,096,934 9,842 19,217,874,260 9,609 Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 69,187,052 35 91,265,909 45 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 437,302,228 219 375,956,765 188 1 At 31 Dec 20,191,586,214 10,096 19,685,096,934 9,842 HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of $0.01 each 2016 2015 Footnote Number $m Number $m 2 At 1 Jan and 31 Dec 1,450,000 1,450,000 HSBC Holdings share premium 2016 2015 $m $m At 31 Dec 12,619 12,421 Total called up share capital and share premium 2016 2015 $m $m At 31 Dec 22,715 22,263 1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue, excluding 325,273,407 shares held in treasury, confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting.
2 Included in the capital base of HSBC as additional tier 1 capital in accordance with the CRD IV rules, by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 253 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of $0.01 HSBC Holdings pays dividends on non-cumulative preference shares of $0.01 each dollar preference shares quarterly, at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board.
The Board will not declare a dividend on them if this would stop the company from meeting the PRAs capital adequacy requirements, or if profit available for distribution as dividends is insufficient to also pay dividends on other shares that are equally entitled and scheduled on the same date.
HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than dollar preference shares, or redeem or purchase any of its other shares ranking equal or lower than dollar preference shares, unless it has fully paid, or set aside an amount to fully pay, the dividends on the dollar preference shares for the then current dividend period.
The dollar preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares.
Holders of dollar preference shares are only entitled to attend and vote at shareholder meetings if dividends on these shares have not been paid in full on four consecutive dividend payment dates.
In such circumstances, holders of these shares are entitled to vote at shareholder meetings until HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on them.
Since 16 December 2010, HSBC Holdings has been able to redeem dollar preference shares at any time, subject to prior notification to the PRA.
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of 0.01 The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of 0.01 sterling preference share has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings.
Dividends are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board.
The sterling preference share carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no rights to attend and vote at shareholder meetings of HSBC Holdings.
HSBC Holdings may redeem it at any time.
Other equity instruments HSBC Holdings includes three types of additional tier 1 capital securities in its tier 1 capital.
Two are presented in this Note and are accounted for as equity because HSBC does not have an obligation to transfer cash or a variable number of its own ordinary shares to holders under any circumstances outside its control.
See Note 28 for additional tier 1 securities accounted for as liabilities.
Additional tier 1 capital securities Additional tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred at HSBC Holdings discretion.
While any coupon payments are unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare or pay dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in respect of any securities of lower or equal rank, or repurchase or redeem them.
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for coupon payments, and in the event of a winding-up.
They do not meet the identifying criteria in full for recognition as tier 1 capital under CRD IV but are eligible as regulatory capital subject to grandfathering limits and progressive phase-out.
At HSBC Holdings discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the capital securities may be exchanged on any coupon payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and ranking pari passu with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue.
The preference shares would be issued at a nominal value of $0.01 per share and a premium of $24.99 per share, with both amounts being subscribed and fully paid.
These securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA.
HSBCs additional tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for in equity 2016 2015 First call date $m $m $2,200m 8.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities Apr 2013 2,133 2,133 $3,800m 8.00% perpetual subordinated capital securities, Series 2 Dec 2015 3,718 3,718 At 31 Dec 5,851 5,851 Additional tier 1 capital contingent convertible securities During 2016, HSBC continued to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in HSBCs capital base as fully CRD IV compliant additional tier 1 capital securities on an end point basis.
The net proceeds of the issuances will be used for general corporate purposes and to further strengthen the capital base to meet requirements under CRD IV.
These securities bear a fixed rate of interest until their initial call dates.
After the initial call dates, if they are not redeemed, the securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on prevailing market rates.
Interest on the contingent convertible securities will be due and payable only at the sole discretion of HSBC, and HSBC has sole and absolute discretion at all times to cancel for any reason in whole or in part any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any payment date.
Distributions will not be paid if they are prohibited under UK banking regulations or if the company has insufficient reserves or fails to meet the solvency conditions defined in the securities terms.
The contingent convertible securities are undated and are repayable, at the option of HSBC, in whole at the initial call date, or on any fifth anniversary after this date.
In addition, the securities are repayable at the option of HSBC in whole for certain regulatory or tax reasons.
Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA.
These securities rank pari passu with HSBCs dollar and sterling preference shares and are therefore ahead of ordinary shares.
The contingent convertible securities will be converted into fully paid ordinary shares of HSBC at a pre-determined price, should HSBCs consolidated end point CET1 ratio fall below 7.0%.
Therefore, in accordance with the terms of the securities, if the end point CET1 ratio breaches the 7.0% trigger, the securities will convert into ordinary shares at fixed contractual conversion prices in the issuance currencies of the relevant securities, equivalent to 2.70 at the prevailing rate of exchange on the issuance date, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments.
254 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HSBCs additional tier 1 capital contingent convertible securities in issue which are accounted for in equity 2016 2015 First call date $m $m $2,250m 6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2024 2,244 2,244 $1,500m 5.625% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jan 2020 1,494 1,494 1,500m 5.25% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2022 1,943 1,943 $2,450m 6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Mar 2025 2,459 2,459 1,000m 6.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2023 1,121 1,121 $2,000m 6.875% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jun 2021 1,998 At 31 Dec 11,259 9,261 Shares under option For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, see Note 5.
Aggregate options outstanding under these plans 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Number of Number of HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 69,217,725 2016 to 2022 4.04725.4738 72,840,810 2015 to 2021 4.04725.4738 504,467 2016 to 2018 HK$55.470163.9864 1,114,830 2015 to 2018 HK$55.470163.9864 86,916 2016 to 2018 5.35325.7974 153,610 2015 to 2018 5.35326.0657 217,738 2016 to 2018 $7.14568.2094 665,445 2015 to 2018 $7.14568.2094 Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares At 31 December 2016, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements and the HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan, together with GPSP awards and restricted share awards granted under the HSBC Share Planand or the HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 198,483,750 2015: 193,178,906.
The total number of shares at 31December 2016 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 3,997,619 2015: 4,753,747.
33 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 1 HSBC HSBC Holdings 2016 2015 2016 2015 $m $m $m $m Guarantees and other contingent liabilities: financial guarantees and similar contracts 37,072 46,116 7,619 68,333 other guarantees 44,394 39,739 other contingent liabilities 553 490 At 31 Dec 82,019 86,345 7,619 68,333 Commitments: documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 9,190 10,168 forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 5,386 981 standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 641,267 655,281 At 31 Dec 655,843 666,430 1 Guarantees by HSBC Holdings are all in favour of other Group entities.
The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts, which represents the maximum amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
As a significant portion of guarantees and commitments is expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity requirements.
Approximately half the guarantees have a term of less than one year, while guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBCs annual credit review process.
Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings, regulatory and other matters against Group companies are disclosed in Notes 27 and 35.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS has provided compensation to consumers following the collapse of a number of deposit takers.
The compensation paid out to consumers is currently funded through loans from HM Treasury, which at 31December 2016 stood at approximately 15.7bn $19.3bn.
The Group could be liable to pay a proportion of the outstanding amount that the FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury.
The ultimate FSCS levy to the industry as a result of the collapses cannot currently be estimated reliably as it is dependent on various uncertain factors including the potential recoveries of assets by the FSCS and changes in the level of protected deposits and the population of FSCS members at the time.
Associates HSBCs share of associates contingent liabilities amounted to $35.3bn at 31 December 2016 2015: $39.2bn.
No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 255 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 34 Lease commitments Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2016, future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for land, buildings and equipment were $3,893m 2015: $5,333m.
Finance lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets such as aircraft, property and general plant and machinery.
At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms.
Rentals are calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income.
2016 2015 Total future Unearned Total future Unearned minimum finance Present minimum finance Present payments income value payments income value $m $m $m $m $m $m Lease receivables: No later than one year 3,248 330 2,918 3,382 332 3,050 Later than one year and no later than fiveyears 6,563 702 5,861 7,219 837 6,382 Later than five years 4,548 633 3,915 4,897 702 4,195 At 31 Dec 14,359 1,665 12,694 15,498 1,871 13,627 35 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations.
Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters are material.
The recognition of provisions is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 1.
While the outcome of legal proceedings and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of these matters as at 31 December 2016 see Note 27.
Where an individual provision is material, the fact that a provision has been made is stated and quantified, except to the extent doing so would be seriously prejudicial.
Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of wrongdoing or legal liability.
It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate ofpotential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory matters as a class of contingent liabilities.
Securities litigation Household International, Inc. Household International and certain former officers were named as defendants in a securities class action lawsuit, Jaffe v. Household International, Inc. et al.
filed in the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois the Illinois District Court in August 2002.
The complaint asserted claims under the US Securities Exchange Act and alleged that the defendants knowingly or recklessly made false and misleading statements of material fact relating to Household Internationals Consumer Lending operations some of which ultimately led to a 2002 settlement with 46 states and the District of Columbia and certain accounting practices, as evidenced by an August 2002 restatement of previously reported consolidated financial statements.
A class was certified on behalf of all persons who acquired and disposed of Household International common stock between July 1999 and October 2002.
In April 2009, a jury trial was decided partly in favour of the plaintiffs and, in October 2013, the Illinois District Court entered a partial final judgment against the defendants in the amount of approximately $2.5bn including pre-judgment interest.
The defendants appealed the partial final judgment and, in May 2015, the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed the partial final judgment of the Illinois District Court and remanded the case for a new trial on loss causation.
In June 2016, HSBC reached an agreement to pay $1.6bn to settle all claims.
Final court approval of the settlement and a final court order of dismissal with prejudice was granted in November 2016.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Bernard L. Madoff Madoff was arrested in December 2008 and later pleaded guilty to running a Ponzi scheme.
His firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Madoff Securities, is being liquidated in the US by a trustee the Trustee.
Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities.
Based on information provided by Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was $8.4bn, including fictitious profits reported by Madoff.
Based on information available to HSBC, the funds actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the time HSBC serviced the funds are estimated to have totalled approximately $4bn.
Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of Madoff Securities fraud.
US UK litigation: The Trustee has brought lawsuits against various HSBC companies in the US Bankruptcy Court and in theEnglish High Court, seeking recovery of transfers from Madoff Securities to HSBC in an amount not yet pleaded or determined.
HSBC and other parties to the action have moved to dismiss the Trustees US actions.
The US Bankruptcy Court granted HSBCs motion to dismiss with respect to certain of the Trustees claims in November 2016, though this ruling is subject to appeal.
The deadline by which the Trustee must serve HSBC with his English action has been extended to September 2017 for UK-based defendants and November 2017 for all other defendants.
Alpha Prime Fund Ltd Alpha Prime and Senator Fund SPC Senator, co-defendants in one of the Trustees US actions, have each brought cross-claims against certain HSBC defendants.
In December 2016, the US Bankruptcy Court granted HSBCs motion to dismiss the cross-claims and Alpha Prime and Senators failure to appeal renders the courts ruling final.
Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited together, Fairfield in liquidation since July 2009 have brought lawsuits in the US and the British Virgin Islands BVI against fund shareholders, including HSBC companies that 256 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 acted as nominees for clients, seeking restitution of redemption payments.
In October 2016, the liquidators for Fairfield 'Fairfield Liquidators' filed a motion seeking leave to amend their complaints in the US Bankruptcy Court.
Briefing on the defendants' opposition to the Liquidators' motion and the defendants' own motion to dismiss is underway.
In January 2017, the defendants filed their consolidated motion to dismiss and opposition to the Fairfield Liquidators motion seeking leave to amend.
In December 2014, three additional actions were filed in the US.
A purported class of direct investors in Madoff Securities asserted common law claims against various HSBC companies in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York the New York District Court.
In September 2016, the New York District Court granted HSBCs motion to dismiss this action and the plaintiffs failure to appeal renders the courts ruling final.
Two investors in Hermes International Fund Limited Hermes also asserted common law claims against various HSBC companies in the New York District Court.
HSBC's motion to dismiss this action remains pending.
In addition, SPV Optimal SUS Ltd SPV OSUS, the purported assignee of the Madoff-invested company, Optimal Strategic US Equity Ltd Optimal, filed a lawsuit in New York state court against various HSBC companies and others, seeking damages on various alleged grounds, including breach of fiduciary duty and breach of trust.
This action has been stayed pending the issuance of a potentially dispositive decision in an action initiated by Optimal regarding the validity of the assignment of its claims to SPV OSUS.
BVI litigation: Beginning in October 2009, the Fairfield Liquidators commenced lawsuits against fund shareholders, including HSBC companies that acted as nominees for clients, seeking recovery of redemption payments.
In March 2016, the BVI court denied a motion brought by certain non-HSBC defendants challenging the Fairfield Liquidators authorisation to pursue their US claims, which those defendants have appealed.
In August 2016, the Fairfield Liquidators voluntarily discontinued their actions against the HSBC defendants.
Bermuda litigation: In January 2009, Kingate Global Fund Limited and Kingate Euro Fund Limited together, Kingate brought an action against HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited HBBM for recovery of funds held in Kingates accounts, fees and dividends.
This action is pending, but is not expected to move forward until the resolution of the Trustees US actions against Kingate and HBBM.
Thema Fund Limited Thema and Hermes each brought three actions in 2009.
The first set of actions seeks recovery of funds in frozen accounts held at HSBC Institutional Trust Services Bermuda Limited.
The second set of actions asserts liability against HSBC Institutional Trust Services Bermuda Limited in relation to claims for mistake, recovery of fees and damages for breach of contract.
The third set of actions seeks return of fees from HBBM and HSBC Securities Services Bermuda Limited.
The parties have agreed to a standstill in respect of all three sets of actions.
Cayman Islands litigation: In February 2013, Primeo Fund Limited Primeo in liquidation since April 2009 brought an action against HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg HSSL and The Bank of Bermuda Cayman, alleging breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty, and claiming damages and equitable compensation.
Trial began in November 2016 and is scheduled to run until the end of February 2017.
Luxembourg litigation: In April 2009, Herald Fund SPC Herald in liquidation since July 2013 brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking restitution of cash and securities Herald purportedly lost because of Madoff Securities fraud, or money damages.
The Luxembourg District Court dismissed Heralds securities restitution claim, but reserved Heralds cash restitution claim and its claim for money damages.
Herald has appealed this judgment to the Court of Appeal.
In March 2010, Herald Lux SICAV Herald Lux in liquidation since April 2009 brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of securities, or the cash equivalent, or money damages.
Herald Lux has also requested the restitution of fees paid to HSSL.
In October 2009, Alpha Prime and, in December 2014, Senator, each brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking the restitution of securities, or the cash equivalent, or money damages.
The action initiated by Senator has been temporarily suspended at Senator's request.
In April 2015, Senator commenced an action against the Luxembourg branch of HSBC Bank plc asserting identical claims before the Luxembourg District Court.
HSSL has also been named as a defendant in various actions by shareholders in Primeo Select Fund, Herald, Herald Lux, and Hermes.
Most of these actions have been dismissed, suspended or postponed.
Ireland litigation: In November 2013, Defender Limited brought an action against HSBC Institutional Trust Services Ireland Limited HTIE and others, alleging breach of contract and claiming damages and indemnification for fund losses.
A trial date has not yet been scheduled.
In May 2016, following a hearing on two preliminary issues, HTIE was successful in obtaining an order dismissing two remaining claims by purported shareholders in Thema International Fund plc.
SPV OSUSs action against HTIE and HSBC Securities Services Ireland Limited alleging breach of contract and claiming damages and indemnification for fund losses was dismissed in October 2015.
SPV OSUSs appeal against this first instance decision was heard in January 2017.
There are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the various Madoffrelated proceedings described above, including but not limited to the multiple jurisdictions in which the proceedings have been brought.
Based upon the information currently available, managements estimate of possible aggregate damages that might arise as a result of all claims in the various Madoff-related proceedings is up to or exceeding $800m, excluding costs and interest.
Due to uncertainties and limitations of this estimate, the ultimate damages could differ significantly from this amount.
US mortgage-related investigations In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA N. A. HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent order the 'OCC Servicing Consent Order' with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC, and HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HNAH entered into a similar consent order with the Federal Reserve Board FRB together with the OCC Servicing Consent Order, the Servicing Consent Orders.
The Servicing Consent Orders required prescribed actions to address certain foreclosure practice deficiencies.
The Servicing Consent Orders also required an independent foreclosure review which, pursuant to amendments to the Servicing Consent Orders in February 2013, ceased and was replaced by a settlement under which HSBC and 12 other participating servicers agreed to provide cash payments and other assistance to eligible borrowers.
In June 2015, the OCC issued an amended OCC Servicing Consent Order citing HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 257 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements the failure of HSBC Bank USA to be in compliance with all requirements of the OCC Servicing Consent Order and stating that the failure to satisfy all requirements of the OCC Servicing Consent Order may result in a variety of regulatory consequences for HSBC Bank USA, including the imposition of civil money penalties.
In January 2017, the OCC terminated the OCC Servicing Consent Order, together with its February 2013 and June 2015 amendments, after determining that HSBC Bank USA had satisfied the requirements thereunder.
In connection with the termination of the Servicing Consent Order, the OCC also assessed a civil money penalty against HSBC Bank USA finding that HSBC Bank USA failed to correct deficiencies identified under the OCC Servicing Consent Order in a timely fashion.
In February 2016, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance, HSBC Mortgage Services Inc. and HNAH entered into an agreement with the USDepartment of Justice the DoJ, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, other federal agencies the Federal Parties and the Attorneys General of 49 states and the District of Columbia the State Parties to resolve civil claims related to past residential mortgage loan origination and servicing practices the National Mortgage Settlement Agreement.
In addition, in February 2016, the FRB announced the imposition against HSBC Finance and HNAH of a $131m civil money penalty in connection with the FRBs consent order of April 2011.
Pursuant to the terms of the FRBs civil money penalty order, the penalty will be satisfied through the cash payments made to the Federal Parties and the consumer relief provided under the National Mortgage Settlement Agreement.
The Servicing Consent Orders and the National Mortgage Settlement Agreement do not completely preclude other enforcement actions by regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies related to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices, including, but not limited to, matters relating to the securitisation of mortgages for investors, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties, criminal fines or other sanctions.
In addition, these practices have in the past resulted in private litigation, and may result in further private litigation.
US mortgage securitisation activity and litigation HSBC Bank USA was a sponsor or seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitisations underwritten by HSBC Securities USA Inc. HSI.
From 2005 to 2007, HSBC Bank USA purchased and sold approximately $24bn of such loans to HSI, which were subsequently securitised and sold by HSI to third parties.
The outstanding principal balance was approximately $4.6bn as at 31December 2016.
HSBC notes that the scale of its mortgage securitisation activities was more limited in relation to a number of other banks in the industry.
In addition, HSI served as an underwriter on securitisations issued by HSBC Finance or third parties, and HSBC Bank USA served as trustee on behalf of various mortgage securitisation trusts.
Mortgage foreclosure and trustee matters: As the industrys residential mortgage foreclosure issues continue, HSBC Bank USA has taken title to a number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various mortgage securitisation trusts.
As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities and tenants alleging various violations of law, including laws relating to property upkeep and tenants rights.
While HSBC believes and continues to maintain that these obligations and any related liabilities are those of the servicer of each trust, HSBC continues to receive significant adverse publicity in connection with these and similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of HSBC, as trustee.
Beginning in June 2014, a number of lawsuits were filed in state and federal court in New York and Ohio against HSBC Bank USA as trustee of over 320 mortgage securitisation trusts.
These lawsuits are brought on behalf of the trusts by a putative class of investors including, among others, BlackRock and PIMCO funds.
The complaints allege that the trusts have sustained losses in collateral value of approximately $38bn.
The lawsuits seek unspecified damages resulting from alleged breaches of the US Trust Indenture Act, breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, breach of contract and breach of the common law duty of trust.
HSBCs motions to dismiss in several of these lawsuits were, for the most part, denied.
It is not practicable to estimate the possible financial impact of these matters, as there are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes: however, the resulting financial impact could be significant.
Loan repurchase matters: HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and Decision One Mortgage Company LLC an indirect subsidiary of HSBC Finance Decision One have been named as defendants in various mortgage loan repurchase actions brought by trustees of mortgage securitisation trusts.
In the aggregate, these actions seek to have the HSBC defendants repurchase mortgage loans, or pay compensatory damages, totalling at least $1bn.
In August 2016, HSBC reached an agreement in principle to settle one of the matters and the other matters remain pending.
HSBC Mortgage Corporation USA Inc. and Decision One have also been named as defendants in two separate actions filed by Residential Funding Company LLC RFC, a mortgage loan purchase counterparty, seeking unspecified damages in connection with approximately 25,000 mortgage loans.
FIRREA: Since 2010, various HSBC entities have received subpoenas and requests for information from the DoJ and the Massachusetts state Attorney General seeking the production of documents and information regarding HSBCs involvement in certain RMBS transactions as an issuer, sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer.
In November 2014, HNAH, on behalf of itself and various subsidiaries including, but not limited to, HSBC Bank USA, HSI Asset Securitization Corp. HSI, HSBC Mortgage Corporation USA, HSBC Finance and Decision One, received a subpoena from the US Attorneys Office for the District of Colorado, pursuant to the Financial Industry Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act FIRREA, concerning the origination, financing, purchase, securitisation and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages.
HSBC continues to cooperate with the DoJs investigation, which is at or nearing completion.
In December 2016, HSBC had an initial discussion with the DoJ, wherein the DoJ stated its preliminary view that HSBC is subject to liability under FIRREA in connection with certain securitisations from 2005 to 2007 with respect to which HSBC Bank USA served as sponsor or seller of loans and HSI served as underwriter.
HSBC disagrees with the DoJs preliminary view, and the DoJ has offered HSBC an opportunity to respond.
There can be no assurance as to how or when this matter will be resolved, or whether this matter will be resolved prior to the institution of formal legal proceedings by the DoJ.
Moreover, it is possible that any such resolution could result in significant penalties and other costs.
To date, at least one bank has been sued by the DoJ and at least eight other banks have reported settlements of mortgage-backed securities-related matters pursuant to FIRREA.
The prior DoJ settlements provide no clear guidance as to how those individual settlement amounts were calculated, and due to the high degree of uncertainty involved, it is not practicable to estimate any possible financial effect of this matter, which could be significant.
258 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HSBC expects the focus on mortgage securitisations to continue and may be subject to additional claims, litigation and governmental or regulatory scrutiny relating to its participation in the US mortgage securitisation market.
Anti-money laundering and sanctions-related matters In October 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent order with the OCC, and HNAH entered into a consent order with the FRB each an Order and together, the Orders.
These Orders required improvements to establish an effective compliance risk management programme across HSBCs US businesses, including risk management related to the Bank Secrecy Act BSA and AML compliance.
HSBC Bank USA is not currently in compliance with the OCC Order.
Steps are being taken to address the requirements of the Orders.
In December 2012, HSBC Holdings, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements with US and UK government agencies regarding past inadequate compliance with the BSA, AML and sanctions laws.
Among those agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA entered into a five-year deferred prosecution agreement with, among others, the DoJ the US DPA : and HSBC Holdings consented to a cease-and-desist order, and HSBC Holdings and HNAH consented to a civil money penalty order with the FRB.
HSBC Holdings also entered into an agreement with the Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC regarding historical transactions involving parties subject to OFAC sanctions, as well as an undertaking with the UK FCA to comply with certain forward-looking AML and sanctions-related obligations.
In addition, HSBC Bank USA entered into civil money penalty orders with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the US Treasury Department and the OCC.
Under these agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA made payments totalling $1.9bn to US authorities and undertook various further obligations, including, among others, to continue to cooperate fully with the DoJ in any and all investigations, not to commit any crime under US federal law subsequent to the signing of the agreement, and to retain an independent compliance monitor the Monitor.
In February 2017, the Monitor delivered his third annual follow-up review report.
Through his country-level reviews, the Monitor identified potential anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance issues that the DoJ and HSBC are reviewing further.
Additionally, as discussed elsewhere in this Note, HSBC is the subject of other ongoing investigations and reviews by the DoJ.
HSBC Bank plc is also the subject of an investigation by the FCA into its compliance with UK money laundering regulations and financial crime systems and controls requirements.
The potential consequences of breaching the US DPA, as well as the role of the Monitor and his third annual review, are discussed on page 82.
HSBC Bank USA also entered into two consent orders with the OCC.
These required HSBC Bank USA to correct the circumstances noted in the OCCs report and to adopt an enterprise-wide compliance programme, and imposed restrictions on acquiring control of, or holding an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, or commencing a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, without the OCCs prior approval.
These settlements with US and UK authorities have led to private litigation, and do not preclude further private litigation related to HSBCs compliance with applicable BSA, AML and sanctions laws or other regulatory or law enforcement actions for BSA, AML, sanctions or other matters not covered by the various agreements.
In May 2014, a shareholder derivative action was filed by a shareholder of HSBC Holdings purportedly on behalf of HSBC Holdings, HSBC Bank USA, HNAH and HSBC USA Inc. the Nominal Corporate Defendants in New York state court against certain current and former directors and officers of those HSBC companies the Individual Defendants.
The complaint alleges that the Individual Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Nominal Corporate Defendants and caused a waste of corporate assets by allegedly permitting and or causing the conduct underlying the US DPA.
In November 2015, the New York state court granted the Nominal Corporate Defendants motion to dismiss.
The plaintiff has appealed that decision.
In July 2014, a claim was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against HSBC Holdings and a former employee purportedly on behalf of a class of persons who purchased HSBC common shares and American Depositary Shares between July 2006 and July 2012.
The complaint, which seeks monetary damages of up to CA$20bn, alleges that the defendants made statutory and common law misrepresentations in documents released by HSBC Holdings and its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, HSBC Bank Canada, relating to HSBCs compliance with BSA, AML, sanctions and other laws.
Since November 2014, four lawsuits have been filed in federal court in New York, Illinois and Texas, against various HSBC companies and others, on behalf of plaintiffs who are, or are related to, victims of terrorist attacks in Iraq, Jordan and Mexico.
In each case, it is alleged that the defendants aided and abetted the unlawful conduct of various sanctioned parties in violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act.
These actions are at an early stage.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these lawsuits, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Tax-related investigations Various tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the US, France, Belgium, Argentina and India, are conducting investigations and reviews of HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA HSBC Swiss Private Bank and other HSBC companies in connection with allegations of tax evasion or tax fraud, money laundering and unlawful cross-border banking solicitation.
HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding whether certain HSBC companies and employees, including those associated with HSBC Swiss Private Bank and an HSBC company in India, acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who had US tax reporting obligations.
In connection with these investigations, HSBC Swiss Private Bank, with due regard for Swiss law, has produced records and other documents to the DoJ.
In August 2013, the DoJ informed HSBC Swiss Private Bank that it was not eligible for the Program for Non-Prosecution Agreements or Non-Target Letters for Swiss Banks since a formal investigation had previously been authorised.
In November 2014, HSBC Swiss Private Bank was placed under formal criminal examination in Belgium for alleged tax-related offences.
In November 2014, HSBC Swiss Private Bank was also placed under formal criminal examination in France for alleged taxrelated offences in 2006 and 2007 and required to pay bail of 50m.
In April 2015, HSBC Holdings was informed that it had been placed under formal criminal examination in France in connection with the conduct of HSBC Swiss Private Bank, and a 1bn bail was imposed.
HSBC Holdings appealed the bail decision and, in June 2015, bail was reduced to 100m.
The ultimate financial impact of these matters could differ significantly, however, from the bail amounts of 150m.
In March 2016, HSBC was informed that the HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 259 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements French magistrates had completed their investigation with respect to HSBC Swiss Private Bank and HSBC Holdings, and have referred the matter to the French public prosecutor for a recommendation on any potential charges.
In October 2016, HSBC Swiss Private Bank and HSBC Holdings received the French public prosecutor`s brief in which the prosecutor recommended the judge to refer the cases to trial, and HSBC Swiss Private Bank and HSBC Holdings have responded to the prosecutors brief.
In November 2014, the Argentine tax authority initiated a criminal action against various individuals, including current and former HSBC employees.
The criminal action includes allegations of tax evasion, conspiracy to launder undeclared funds and an unlawful association among HSBC Swiss Private Bank, HSBC Bank Argentina, HSBC Bank USA and certain HSBC employees, which allegedly enabled numerous HSBC customers to evade their Argentine tax obligations.
In February 2015, the Indian tax authority issued a summons and request for information to an HSBC company in India.
In August 2015 and November 2015, HSBC companies received notices issued by two offices of the Indian tax authority, alleging that the Indian tax authority had sufficient evidence to initiate prosecution against HSBC Swiss Private Bank and an HSBC company in Dubai for allegedly abetting tax evasion of four different Indian individuals and or families and requesting that the HSBC companies show why such prosecution should not be initiated.
HSBC Swiss Private Bank and the HSBC company in Dubai have responded to the show cause notices.
HSBC is cooperating with the relevant authorities.
As at 31 December 2016, HSBC has recognised a provision for these various matters in the amount of $773m.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these investigations andreviews.
Due to uncertainties and limitations of these estimates, the ultimate penalties could differ significantly from the amountprovided.
In light of the media attention regarding these matters, it is possible that other tax administration, regulatory or law enforcement authorities will also initiate or enlarge similar investigations or regulatory proceedings.
Mossack Fonseca & Co. HSBC has received requests for information from various regulatory and law enforcement authorities around the world concerning persons and entities believed to be linked to Mossack Fonseca & Co. a service provider of personal investment companies.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
London interbank offered rates, European interbank offered rates and other benchmark interest rate investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the UK, the US, the EU and Switzerland, are conducting investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by panel banks and the processes for making submissions in connection with the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark interest rates.
As certain HSBC companies are members of such panels, HSBC has been the subject of regulatory demands for information and is cooperating with those investigations and reviews.
In December 2016, the European Commission the Commission issued a decision finding that HSBC, among other banks, engaged in anti-competitive practices in connection with the pricing of euro interest rate derivatives in early 2007.
The Commission determined that the duration of HSBCs infringement was 1 month and fined HSBC.
HSBC has appealed the decision.
US dollar Libor: Beginning in 2011, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in a number of private lawsuits filed in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar Libor.
The complaints assert claims under various US laws, including US antitrust and racketeering laws, the US Commodity Exchange Act US CEA, and state law.
The lawsuits include individual and putative class actions, most of which have been transferred and or consolidated for pre-trial purposes before the New York District Court.
The New York District Court has issued decisions dismissing certain of the claims in response to motions filed by the defendants.
Those decisions resulted in the dismissal of the plaintiffs federal and state antitrust claims, racketeering claims, and unjust enrichment claims.
Dismissal of certain of these claims was appealed to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which reversed the New York District Courts dismissal of plaintiffs antitrust claims in May 2016.
In July 2016, defendants filed a joint motion to dismiss all antitrust claims and, in December 2016, the New York District Court granted in part and denied in part the motion, leaving only certain antitrust claims to be litigated.
Separately, in October 2016, the New York District Court granted a motion to dismiss claims brought by an individual plaintiff for lack of personal jurisdiction, which dismissal is currently on appeal to the Second Circuit.
Finally, in January 2017, the District Court granted defendants motion to dismiss certain of the remaining antitrust claims against defendants that did not serve on the US dollar Libor submission panel.
Euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate Tibor and or Japanese yen Libor: In April 2012 and July 2015, HSBC and other panel banks were named as defendants in putative class actions filed in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in financial instruments allegedly related to the euroyen Tibor and or Japanese yen Libor.
The complaints allege, among other things, misconduct related to euroyen Tibor, although HSBC is not a member of the Japanese Bankers Associations euroyen Tibor panel, as well as Japanese yen Libor, in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA, and state law.
In May 2016, HSBC reached an agreement in principle with plaintiffs to resolve both of these actions, and the settlement was granted final court approval in November 2016.
Euribor: In November 2013, HSBC and other panel banks were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in euro futures contracts and other financial instruments allegedly related to Euribor.
The complaint alleges, among other things, misconduct related to Euribor in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and state law.
In May 2016, HSBC reached an agreement in principle with plaintiffs to resolve this action, subject to court approval.
Singapore Interbank Offered Rate SIBOR, Singapore Swap Offer Rate SOR and Australia Bank Bill Swap Rate 'BBSW' : In July 2016 and August 2016, HSBC and other panel banks were named as defendants in two putative class actions filed in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in products related to the SIBOR, SOR and BBSW benchmark rates.
The complaints allege, among other things, misconduct related to these benchmark rates in violation of US antitrust, commodities and racketeering laws, and state law.
These matters are at an early stage.
260 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 US dollar International Swaps and Derivatives Association fix ISDAfix : In September 2014, HSBC and other panel banks were named as defendants in a number of putative class actions consolidated in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in interest rate derivatives or purchased or sold financial instruments that were either tied to ISDAfix rates or were executed shortly before, during, or after the time of the daily ISDAfix setting window.
The consolidated complaint alleges, among other things, misconduct related to these activities in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and state law.
HSBCs motion to dismiss the complaint was denied in March 2016.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these matters, which could be significant.
Foreign exchange rate investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the US, the EU, Switzerland, Brazil, South Korea and South Africa are conducting investigations and reviews into trading by HSBC and others on the foreign exchange markets.
HSBC is cooperating with these investigations and reviews.
In May 2015, the DoJ resolved its investigations with respect to five non-HSBC financial institutions, four of whom agreed to plead guilty to criminal charges of conspiring to manipulate prices in the foreign exchange spot market, and resulting in the imposition of criminal fines in the aggregate of more than $2.5bn.
Additional penalties were imposed at the same time by the FRB and other banking regulators.
HSBC was not a party to these resolutions.
In August 2016, the DoJ indicted one current and one former HSBC employee and charged them with wire fraud and conspiracy relating to a 2011 foreign exchange transaction.
The trial is currently scheduled to begin in September 2017.
HSBC was not named as a defendant in the indictment, and investigations into HSBC by the DoJ, FRB and others continue.
In December 2016, HSBC Bank plc entered into a settlement with Brazils Administrative Council of Economic Defense CADE in connection with its investigation into 15 banks, including HSBC Bank plc, as well as 30 individuals, relating to practices in the offshore foreign exchange market.
Under the terms of the settlement, HSBC Bank plc agreed to pay a financial penalty to CADE.
In February 2017, the Competition Commission of South Africa referred a complaint for proceedings before the South African Competition Tribunal against 18 financial institutions, including HSBC Bank plc, for alleged misconduct related to the foreign exchange market in violation of South African antitrust laws.
These proceedings are at an early stage.
In late 2013 and early 2014, HSBC and other banks were named as defendants in various putative class actions consolidated in the New York District Court.
The consolidated complaint alleged, among other things, that the defendants conspired to manipulate the WM Reuters foreign exchange benchmark rates.
In September 2015, HSBC reached an agreement with plaintiffs to resolve the consolidated action, subject to court approval.
In December 2015, the court granted preliminary approval of the settlement, and HSBC made payment of the agreed settlement amount into an escrow account.
The final settlement approval hearing is scheduled for October 2017.
In June 2015, a putative class action was filed in the New York District Court making similar allegations on behalf of Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ERISA plan participants, and another complaint was filed in the US District Court for the Northern District of California in May 2015.
The court dismissed the claims in the ERISA action, and the plaintiffs have appealed to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
HSBC filed a motion to transfer the California action to New York, which was granted in November 2015.
In September 2016, a putative class action making similar allegations on behalf of purported indirect purchasers of foreign exchange products was filed in New York.
This action is at an early stage.
In September 2015, two additional putative class actions making similar allegations under Canadian law were issued in Canada against various HSBC companies and other financial institutions.
As at 31 December 2016, HSBC has recognised a provision for these various matters in the amount of $1.2bn.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these matters.
Due to uncertainties and limitations of these estimates, the ultimate penalties could differ significantly from the amount provided.
Precious metals fix-related investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities, including in the US and the EU, are conducting investigations and reviews relating to HSBCs precious metals operations and trading.
In November 2014, the Antitrust Division and Criminal Fraud Section of the DoJ issued a document request to HSBC Holdings, seeking the voluntary production of certain documents in connection with a criminal investigation that the DoJ is conducting of alleged anti-competitive and manipulative conduct in precious metals trading.
In January 2016, the Antitrust Division of the DoJ informed HSBC that it was closing its investigation: however, the Criminal Fraud Sections investigation remains ongoing.
Gold: Beginning in March 2014, numerous putative class actions were filed in the New York District Court and the US District Courts for the District of New Jersey and the Northern District of California, naming HSBC and other members of The London Gold Market Fixing Limited as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2004 to the present, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of gold and gold derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and New York state law.
The actions were consolidated in the New York District Court.
Defendants' motion to dismiss the consolidated action was granted in part and denied in part in October 2016.
In December 2015, a putative class action under Canadian law was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against various HSBC companies and other financial institutions.
Plaintiffs allege that, among other things, from January 2004 to March 2014, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of gold and gold derivatives in violation of the Canadian Competition Act and common law.
Silver: Beginning in July 2014, numerous putative class actions were filed in the US District Courts for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, naming HSBC and other members of The London Silver Market Fixing Ltd as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 1999 to the present, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of silver and silver derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and New York state law.
Defendants motion to dismiss the consolidated action was granted in part and denied in part in October 2016.
In April 2016, two putative class actions under Canadian law were filed in the Ontario and Quebec Superior Courts of Justice against various HSBC companies and other financial institutions.
Plaintiffs in both actions allege that, from January 1999 to August 2014, HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 261 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements defendants conspired to manipulate the price of silver and silver derivatives in violation of the Canadian Competition Act and common law.
The Ontario action is at an early stage.
The Quebec action has been temporarily stayed.
Platinum and palladium: Between late 2014 and early 2015, numerous putative class actions were filed in the New York District Court, naming HSBC and other members of The London Platinum and Palladium Fixing Company Limited as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2008 to the present, defendants conspired to manipulate the price ofplatinum group metals PGM and PGM-based financial products for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws and the US CEA.
Defendants have moved to dismiss the action.
Credit default swap litigation Various HSBC companies, among other financial institutions, ISDA, and Markit, were named as defendants in numerous putative class actions filed in the New York District Court and the Illinois District Court.
The actions alleged that the defendants violated USantitrust laws by, among other things, conspiring to restrict access to credit default swap pricing exchanges and block new entrants into the exchange market.
The actions were subsequently consolidated in the New York District Court.
In September 2015, the HSBC defendants reached an agreement with the plaintiffs to resolve the consolidated action, and final court approval of that settlement was granted in April 2016.
Treasury auctions Beginning in July 2015, HSI, amongst other financial institutions, was named as a defendant in several putative class actions filed in the New York District Court.
The complaints generally allege that the defendants violated US antitrust laws and the US CEA by colluding to manipulate prices of US Treasury securities sold at auction.
The cases have been consolidated in the New York District Court.
This matter is at an early stage.
The DoJ has requested information from HSBC and reportedly other banks regarding US Treasury securities trading practices.
HSBC is cooperating with this ongoing investigation.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Interest rate swap litigation In February 2016, various HSBC companies, among others, were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New York District Court.
The complaint alleged that the defendants violated US antitrust laws by, among other things, conspiring to boycott and eliminate various entities and practices that would have brought exchange trading to buy-side investors in the interest rate swaps marketplace.
In June 2016, this action along with other complaints filed in the New York District Court and the Illinois District Court were consolidated in the New York District Court, and in January 2017, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss.
Fdration Internationale fide Football Association FIFA related investigations HSBC has received inquiries from the DoJ regarding its banking relationships with certain individuals and entities that are or may be associated with FIFA.
The DoJ is investigating whether multiple financial institutions, including HSBC, permitted the processing of suspicious or otherwise improper transactions, or failed to observe applicable AML laws and regulations.
HSBC is cooperating with the DoJs investigation.
Hiring practices investigation The US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC is investigating multiple financial institutions, including HSBC, in relation to hiring practices of candidates referred by or related to government officials or employees of state-owned enterprises in Asia-Pacific.
HSBC has received various requests for information and is cooperating with the SECs investigation.
36 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel 'KMP' as defined by IAS 24, close family members of KMP and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by KMP or their close family members.
KMP are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings.
These individuals also constitute 'senior management' for the purposes of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Following a review of the application of IAS 24, it was determined that the roles of Chief Legal Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit and Group Head of Human Resources did not meet the criteria for KMP as provided for in the standard.
Particulars of transactions with related parties are tabulated below.
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and outstanding balances during the year.
Key Management Personnel Details of Directors remuneration and interest in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 153 to 170.
IAS 24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
262 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Compensation of Key Management Personnel 2016 2015 2014 $m $m $m Short-term employee benefits 41 40 41 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Other long-term employee benefits 5 9 7 Share-based payments 37 51 54 Year ended 31 Dec 83 101 103 Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel 2016 2015 000s 000s Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 18 29 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 22,283 18,961 At 31 Dec 22,301 18,990 Transactions and balances during the year with Key Management Personnel 2016 2015 Highest amounts Highest amounts Balance at outstanding Balance outstanding 31Dec during year at 31 Dec during year Footnote $m $m $m $m Key Management Personnel 1 Advances and credits 215 220 218 411 Guarantees 55 63 67 91 Deposits 229 677 387 768 1 Advances and credits entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings during 2016 with Directors, disclosed pursuant to Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, totalled $2m 2015: $4m.
Some of the transactions were connected transactions as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those rules.
The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures including loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts.
Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 17.
Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures 2016 2015 Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at during the year 31 Dec during the year 31 Dec $m $m $m $m Unsubordinated amounts due from joint ventures 126 113 195 151 Unsubordinated amounts due from associates 3,136 2,881 4,209 2,035 Amounts due to associates 1,112 576 1,047 92 Guarantees and commitments 776 594 905 904 The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Post-employment benefit plans At 31 December 2016, $4.4bn 2015: $4.3bn of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies, earning management fees of $6m in 2016 2015: $8m.
At 31 December 2016 HSBCs post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits of $710m 2015:$811m with its banking subsidiaries, earning interest payable to the schemes of $1m 2015: nil.
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
The HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme and International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme enter into swap transactions with HSBC to manage inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities and selected assets.
At 31 December 2016 the gross notional value of the swaps with HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme was $10.5bn 2015: $13.3bn : these swaps had a positive fair value to the scheme of $0.9bn 2015: $0.5bn : and HSBC had delivered collateral of $0.9bn 2015: $1.1bn to the scheme in respect of these arrangements.
At 31 December 2016, the gross notional value of the swaps with the International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme was $1.2bn 2015: $1.7bn and the swaps had a net negative fair value to the scheme of $85m 2015: $96m negative.
All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid offer spreads.
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 263 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Details of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries are shown in Note 38.
Transactions and balances during the year with subsidiaries 2016 2015 Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at during the year 31 Dec during the year 31 Dec $m $m $m $m Assets Cash at bank 997 247 620 242 Derivatives 4,494 2,148 3,409 2,466 Loans and advances 77,732 77,421 47,229 44,350 Financial investments 4,314 3,590 4,427 4,285 Investments in subsidiaries 97,827 95,850 97,770 97,770 Total related party assets at 31 Dec 185,364 179,256 153,455 149,113 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 3,823 2,157 2,892 2,152 Derivatives 5,025 5,025 2,459 2,277 Subordinated liabilities 1,749 891 2,652 1,746 Total related party liabilities at 31 Dec 10,597 8,073 8,003 6,175 Guarantees and commitments 63,719 7,619 68,349 68,333 The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company.
HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf.
Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 5.
37 Events after the balance sheet date A fourth interim dividend for 2016 of $0.21 per ordinary share a distribution of approximately $4,172m was declared by the Directors after 31 December 2016.
On 21 February 2017, the Board approved a share buy-back programme of up to $1.0bn.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2017 and authorised for issue.
264 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 38 HSBC Holdings subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a list of HSBC Holdings plcs subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, the registered office address and the effective percentage of equity owned at 31 December 2016 is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, the share capital comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by Group subsidiaries.
The ownership percentage is provided for each undertaking.
The undertakings below are consolidated by HSBC unless otherwise indicated.
Subsidiaries Group Group Subsidiaries interest % Footnotes Subsidiaries interest % Footnotes 182 36 ACN 087 652 113 Pty Limited 100.00 Card-Flo #1, Inc. 100.00 1,19, 130 127 AEA Investors Cayman IA L. P. 100.00 Card-Flo #3, Inc. 100.00 16, 162 166 Allblack Investments Limited 100.00 Cayman International Finance Limited 100.00 201 228 Almacenadora Banpacifico S. A.
99.99 Cayman Nominees Limited 100.00 1, 94 101 AMP Client HSBC Custody Nominee UK Limited 100.00 CBS Holdings, Inc. 100.00 94 10, 133 Assetfinance December F Limited 100.00 CC&H Holdings LLC 100.00 94 94 Assetfinance December H Limited 100.00 CCF & Partners Asset Management Limited 100.00 94 4, 233 Assetfinance December M Limited 100.00 CCF Charterhouse GmbH 100.00 94 9, 233 Assetfinance December P Limited 100.00 CCF Charterhouse GmbH & Co Asset Leasing KG 100.00 94 1, 220 Assetfinance December R Limited 100.00 CCF Holding LIBAN S. A. L. in liquidation 74.99 94 94 Assetfinance December W Limited 100.00 Charterhouse Administrators D. T. Limited 100.00 94 94 Assetfinance June A Limited 100.00 Charterhouse Development Limited 100.00 94 94 Assetfinance June D Limited 100.00 Charterhouse Management Services Limited 100.00 94 1, 94 Assetfinance June E Limited 100.00 Charterhouse Pensions Limited 100.00 94 22, 190 Assetfinance Limited 100.00 Chongqing Dazu HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 84 Assetfinance March B Limited 100.00 Chongqing Fengdu HSBC Rural Bank Company 94 Limited 100.00 22, 191 Assetfinance March D Limited 100.00 94 Assetfinance March F Limited 100.00 Chongqing Rongchang HSBC Rural Bank Company 94 Limited 100.00 22, 195 Assetfinance September F Limited 100.00 94 94 Assetfinance September G Limited 100.00 CL Residential Limited 100.00 131 1, 8, 94 B&Q Financial Services Limited 100.00 COIF Nominees Limited 100.00 1, 108 109 Banco Nominees Guernsey Limited 99.98 Cordico Management AG 100.00 108 151 Banco Nominees 2 Guernsey Limited 100.00 Corhold Limited 100.00 87 22, 147 Banco Nominees Limited 100.00 Dalian Pulandian HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 166 10, 139 Bank of Bermuda Cayman Limited 100.00 Decision One Mortgage Company, LLC 100.00 19, 27 4, 74 Beau Soleil Limited Partnership 99.99 Dem 5 100.00 22, 148 4, 74 Beijing Miyun HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 Dem 9 100.00 10, 127 4, 29 Beneficial Company LLC 100.00 Dempar 1 100.00 135 4, 29 Beneficial Consumer Discount Company 100.00 Dempar 4 100.00 142 201 Beneficial Financial I Inc. 100.00 Desarrollo Turistico, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 127 101 Beneficial Florida Inc. 100.00 Eagle Rock Holdings, Inc. 100.00 127 101 Beneficial Homeowner Service Corporation 100.00 Ellenville Holdings, Inc. 100.00 127 6, 233 Beneficial Kentucky Inc. 100.00 Elysees GmbH 100.00 127 4, 89 Beneficial Loan & Thrift Co. 100.00 Elyses Immo Invest 100.00 127 108 Beneficial Louisiana Inc. 100.00 Emerging Growth Real Estate II GP Limited 100.00 127 1, 94 Beneficial Maine Inc. 100.00 EMTT Limited 100.00 127 153 Beneficial Massachusetts Inc. 100.00 Endeavour Personal Finance Limited 100.00 127 94 Beneficial Michigan Inc. 100.00 Equator Holdings Limited 100.00 127 200 Beneficial New Hampshire Inc. 100.00 Eton Corporate Services Limited 100.00 127 1, 189 Beneficial Oregon Inc. 100.00 Far East Leasing SA 100.00 127 4, 74 Beneficial Rhode Island Inc. 100.00 Fdm 5 SAS 100.00 127 16, 234 Beneficial South Dakota Inc. 100.00 FEPC Leasing Ltd. 100.00 141 4, 89 Beneficial Tennessee Inc. 100.00 Finanpar 2 100.00 143 4, 89 Beneficial West Virginia, Inc. 100.00 Finanpar 7 100.00 136 151 Beneficial Wyoming Inc. 100.00 First Corporate Director Inc. 100.00 166 94 BerCay Holdings Limited 100.00 First Direct Investments UK Limited 100.00 87 1, 4, 44 Bermuda International Securities Limited 100.00 Flandres Contentieux S. A.
100.00 61 4, 29 BFC Insurance Agency of Nevada 100.00 Foncire Elyses 100.00 94 16, 94 Billingsgate City Securities Limited 100.00 Forward Trust Rail Services Limited 100.00 94 22, 192 Billingsgate Nominees Limited 100.00 Fujian Yongan HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 142 96 Cal-Pacific Services, Inc. 100.00 Fulcher Enterprises Company Limited 62.14 1, 94 1, 20, 201 Canada Crescent Nominees UK Limited 100.00 Fundacion HSBC, A. C. 60.00 94 1, 94 Canada Square Nominees UK Limited 100.00 G. M. Gilt-Edged Nominees Limited 100.00 1, 94 Canada Square Property Participations Limited 100.00 Gesellschaft fur Industrielle Beteiligungen und 1, 94 Finanzierung mbH 100.00 176 Canada Water Nominees UK Limited 100.00 101 113 Capco Cove, Inc. 100.00 Gesico International SA 100.00 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 265 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Group Group Subsidiaries interest % Subsidiaries interest % Footnotes Footnotes 101 111 Giller Ltd. 100.00 HSBC Administradora fide Inversiones S. A.
100.00 10, 127 10, 101 GPIF Co-Investment, LLC 80.00 HSBC AFS USA LLC 100.00 1, 11, 118 85 GPIF-I Equity Co. Ltd. 100.00 HSBC Agency India Private Limited 100.00 1, 11, 118 166 GPIF-I Finance Co. Ltd 100.00 HSBC Alpha Funding UK Holdings 100.00 94 94 Griffin International Limited 100.00 HSBC Alternative Investments Limited 100.00 94 HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad 100.00  Trinkausstrasse  100.00 176 127 HSBC Americas Corporation Delaware 100.00 201 150 Grupo Financiero HSBC, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 HSBC Argentina Holdings S. A.
100.00 94 Guangdong Enping HSBC Rural Bank Company HSBC Asia Holdings UK Limited 100.00 100.00 Limited 22, 196 16,94 HSBC Asia Holdings B. V. 100.00 151 16,94 GZ Trust Corporation 100.00 HSBC Asia Pacific Holdings UK Limited 100.00 96 94 Hang Seng Nominee Limited 62.14 HSBC Asset Finance UK Limited 100.00 22, 71 94 Hang Seng Bank China Limited 62.14 HSBC Asset Finance Holdings Limited 100.00 96 94 Hang Seng Bank Trustee Limited 62.14 HSBC Asset Finance M. O. G. Holdings UK Limited 100.00 96 76 Hang Seng Bank Limited 62.14 HSBC Asset Management India Private Limited 100.00 96 4, 44 Hang Seng Bullion Company Limited 62.14 HSBC Assurances Vie France 100.00 96 16, 182 Hang Seng Credit Limited 62.14 HSBC Australia Holdings Pty Limited 100.00 96 171 Hang Seng Data Services Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank Chile 100.00 96 22, 157 Hang Seng Finance Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank China Company Limited 100.00 96 163 Hang Seng Financial Information Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank General Partner Limited 100.00 96 91 Hang Seng Futures Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank Mauritius Limited 72.96 96 23, 57 Hang Seng Indexes Company Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank RR Limited Liability Company 100.00 96 58 Hang Seng Insurance Company Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank Singapore Limited 100.00 Hang Seng Investment Management Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank Taiwan Limited 100.00 96 38 96 211 Hang Seng Investment Services Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank Uruguay S. A.
100.00 96 227 Hang Seng Life Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank Vietnam Ltd. 100.00 96 146 Hang Seng Real Estate Management Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank A. S. 100.00 96 149 Hang Seng Securities Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank Argentina S. A.
99.99 96 90 Hang Seng Security Management Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank Armenia cjsc 70.00 96 182 Haseba Investment Company Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank Australia Limited 100.00 1, 94 87 HBL Nominees Limited 100.00 HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 100.00 108 16, 98 HDSAP GP Limited 100.00 HSBC Bank Canada 100.00 94 19, 163 HFC Bank Limited 100.00 HSBC Bank Capital Funding Sterling 1 LP 100.00 10, 127 19, 163 HFC Company LLC 100.00 HSBC Bank Capital Funding Sterling 2 LP 100.00 101 69 High Meadow Management, Inc. 100.00 HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E 94.53 96 162 High Time Investments Limited 62.14 HSBC Bank International Limited 100.00 34 31 HITG Administration GmbH 100.00 HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 100.00 103 35 Honey Green Enterprises Ltd. 100.00 HSBC Bank Malta p. l. c. 70.03 16, 177 HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 100.00 Hongkong International Trade Finance Holdings Limited 100.00 94 HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, Representative Office Morocco SARL 100.00 10, 127 229 Household Capital Markets LLC 100.00 127 162 Household Commercial Financial Services, Inc. 100.00 HSBC Bank Nominee Jersey Limited 100.00 Household Finance Consumer Discount Company 100.00 HSBC Bank Oman S. A. O. G. 51.00 127 105 127 94 Household Finance Corporation II 100.00 HSBC Bank Pension Trust UK Limited 100.00 127 2, 16, 94 Household Finance Corporation III 100.00 HSBC Bank plc 100.00 137 16, 214 Household Finance Corporation of Alabama 100.00 HSBC Bank Polska S. A.
100.00 Household Finance Corporation of California 100.00 HSBC Bank USA, National Association 100.00 127 16, 52 143 1, 94 Household Finance Corporation of West Virginia 100.00 HSBC Branch Nominee UK Limited 100.00 138 216 Household Finance Industrial Loan Company of Iowa 100.00 HSBC Brasil Holding S. A.
100.00 127 216 Household Finance Realty Corporation of Nevada 100.00 HSBC BRASIL S. A. BANCO fide INVESTIMENTO 100.00 127 27 Household Finance Realty Corporation of New York 100.00 HSBC Broking Forex Asia Limited 100.00 141 14, 27 Household Financial Center Inc. 100.00 HSBC Broking Futures Asia Limited 100.00 126 27 Household Industrial Finance Company 100.00 HSBC Broking Futures Hong Kong Limited 100.00 140 27 Household Industrial Loan Company of Kentucky 100.00 HSBC Broking Nominees Asia Limited 100.00 86 27 Household Insurance Group Holding Company 100.00 HSBC Broking Securities Asia Limited 100.00 16, 94 27 Household International Europe Limited 100.00 HSBC Broking Securities Hong Kong Limited 100.00 226 27 Household Pooling Corporation 100.00 HSBC Broking Services Asia Limited 100.00 127 94 Household Realty Corporation 100.00 HSBC Canada Holdings UK Limited 100.00 1,94 68 HPUT A Limited 100.00 HSBC Capital Canada Inc. 100.00 1,94 127 HPUT B Limited 100.00 HSBC Capital USA, Inc. 100.00 108 19,163 HRMG Nominees Limited 100.00 HSBC Capital Funding Dollar 1 L. P. 100.00 94 27 HSBC BGF Investments Limited 100.00 HSBC Capital Limited 100.00 2, 163 127 HSBC General Partner Limited 100.00 HSBC Card Services Inc. 100.00 31 HSBC Kuala Lumpur Nominees Sdn Bhd 100.00 HSBC Casa fide Bolsa, S. A. fide C. V. Grupo Financiero HSBC 100.00 40 201 HSBC Malaysia Trustee Berhad 100.00 58 166 HSBC Singapore Nominees Pte Ltd 100.00 HSBC Cayman Services Limited 100.00 266 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Group Subsidiaries interest % Subsidiaries interest % Footnotes Footnotes 94 155 HSBC City Funding Holdings 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Japan K. K. 100.00 1, 94 95 HSBC Client Holdings Nominee UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Malta Limited 70.03 1, 94 HSBC Client Share Offer Nominee UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Mxico, S. A. fide 10, 127 HSBC Columbia Funding, LLC 100.00 C. V. Sociedad Operadora fide Fondos fide Inversin, Grupo Financiero HSBC 100.00 127 201 HSBC Consumer Lending USA Inc. 100.00 31 6, 152 HSBC Corporate Advisory Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Oesterreich GmbH 100.00 27 58 HSBC Corporate Finance Hong Kong Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Singapore Limited 100.00 94 4, 109 HSBC Corporate Trustee Company UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Switzerland AG 100.00 127 63 HSBC Credit Center, Inc. 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Taiwan Limited 100.00 182 94 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management UK Limited 100.00 108 80 HSBC Custody Services Guernsey Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management USA Inc. 100.00 123 HSBC Daisy Investments Mauritius Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Holdings Bahamas Limited 100.00 187 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Guangdong Limited 100.00 22, 77 94 HSBC Global Asset Management Limited 100.00 222 1, 94 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100.00 HSBC Global Custody Nominee UK Limited 100.00 169 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Philippines, Inc. 100.00 HSBC Global Custody Proprietary Nominee UK Limited 100.00 1, 94 HSBC Electronic Data Processing India Private Limited 100.00 165 94 HSBC Global Services UK Limited 100.00 2, 94 HSBC Global Services Limited 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Lanka Private Limited 100.00 79 1, 85 HSBC Global Shared Services India Private Limited 100.00 219 94 HSBC Electronic Data Service Delivery Egypt S. A. E. 100.00 HSBC Group Management Services Limited 100.00 94 1, 2, 94 HSBC Enterprise Investment Company UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Group Nominees UK Limited 100.00 4,44 82 HSBC Epargne Entreprise France 100.00 HSBC Guyerzeller Trust Company 100.00 94 16, 94 HSBC Equator UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Holdings B. V. 100.00 94 127 HSBC Equipment Finance UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation II 100.00 1,45 1, 94 HSBC Equities Luxembourg S. a r. l. 100.00 HSBC IM Pension Trust Limited 100.00 94 94 HSBC Equity UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Infrastructure Limited 100.00 94 24, 112 HSBC Europe B. V. 100.00 HSBC INKA Investment-AG TGV 100.00 201 HSBC Inmobiliaria Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. 99.96 HSBC European Clients Depositary Receipts Nominee UK Limited 100.00 1, 94 27 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Asia Limited 100.00 94 87 HSBC Executor & Trustee Company UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Bermuda Limited 100.00 4,29 26 HSBC Factoring France 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Ireland DAC 100.00 230 160 HSBC Finance Brunei Berhad 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Mauritius Limited 100.00 2,94 58 HSBC Finance Netherlands 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Singapore Limited 100.00 16, 127 53 HSBC Finance Corporation 100.00 HSBC Insurance Asia Limited 100.00 94 16, 181 HSBC Finance Limited 100.00 HSBC Insurance Asia-Pacific Holdings Limited 100.00 224 87 HSBC Finance Mortgages Inc. 100.00 HSBC Insurance Bermuda Limited 100.00 2, 94 58 HSBC Finance Transformation UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Insurance Singapore Pte.
Limited 100.00 158 80 HSBC Financial Services Middle East Limited 100.00 HSBC Insurance Agency USA Inc. 100.00 158 102 HSBC Financial Services Lebanon s. a. l. 99.70 HSBC Insurance Brokers Philippines Inc 100.00 237 46 HSBC Financial Services Uruguay S. A.
100.00 HSBC Insurance Brokers Taiwan Limited 100.00 2,94 HSBC Insurance Holdings Limited 100.00 HSBC Fondo 1, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 94 HSBC Insurance Management Services Limited 100.00 158 HSBC Insurance Services Lebanon S. A. L. 100.00 HSBC Fondo 3, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 94 HSBC Insurance Services Holdings Limited 100.00 66 HSBC International Finance Corporation Delaware 100.00 HSBC Fondo 4, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 15, 94 HSBC International Financial Services UK Limited 100.00 162 HSBC International Holdings Jersey Limited 100.00 HSBC Fondo 5, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 1, 208 HSBC International Nominees Limited 100.00 94 HSBC International Trade Finance Limited 100.00 HSBC Fondo 6, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 17, 235 HSBC International Trustee BVI Limited 100.00 58 HSBC International Trustee Holdings Pte.
Limited 100.00 HSBC Fondo Global 1, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 208 HSBC International Trustee Limited 100.00 24, 29 171 HSBC France 99.99 HSBC Inversiones S. A.
100.00 162 171 HSBC Fund Administration Jersey Limited 100.00 HSBC Inversiones y Servicios Financieros Limitada 100.00 1, 178 100 HSBC Fund Services Korea Limited 92.96 HSBC InvestDirect India Limited 99.54 94 100 HSBC Funding UK Holdings 100.00 HSBC InvestDirect Financial Services India Limited 100.00 162 85 HSBC Funds Nominee Jersey Limited 100.00 HSBC InvestDirect Sales & Marketing India Limited 99.00 176 16, 100 HSBC Germany Holdings GmbH 100.00 HSBC InvestDirect Securities India Private Limited 100.00 48 27 HSBC Gestion Monaco SA 99.80 HSBC Investment Asia Holdings Limited 100.00 16,87 94 HSBC Global Asset Management Bermuda Limited 100.00 HSBC Investment Bank Holdings B. V. 100.00 64 2, 94 HSBC Global Asset Management Canada Limited 100.00 HSBC Investment Bank Holdings Limited 100.00 176 1,65 HSBC Global Asset Management Deutschland 100.00 HSBC Investment Company Egypt S. A. E 100.00 4,170 16, 64 HSBC Global Asset Management France 100.00 HSBC Investment Funds Canada Inc. 100.00 27 HSBC Investment Funds Hong Kong Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Hong Kong Limited 100.00 27 45 HSBC Investment Funds Luxembourg SA 100.00 200 HSBC Investment Holdings Guernsey Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management International Limited 100.00 168 56 HSBC Investment Services Africa Pty Limited 100.00 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 267 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Group Group Subsidiaries interest % Subsidiaries interest % Footnotes Footnotes 188 27 HSBC Investments Bahamas Limited 100.00 HSBC Provident Fund Trustee Hong Kong Limited 100.00 59 1, 2, 94 HSBC Invoice Finance UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Quest Trustee UK Limited 100.00 123 94 HSBC Iris Investments Mauritius Ltd 100.00 HSBC Rail UK Limited 100.00 4, 44 HSBC Real Estate Leasing France 100.00 HSBC Issuer Services Common Depositary Nominee UK Limited 100.00 1, 94 16, 127 HSBC Realty Credit Corporation USA 100.00 4, 44 HSBC REIM France 100.00 HSBC Issuer Services Depositary Nominee UK Limited 100.00 1, 94 221 HSBC Representative Office Nigeria Limited 100.00 10, 70 HSBC Land Title Agency USA LLC 55.00 HSBC Republic Management Services Guernsey Limited 100.00 94 200 HSBC Latin America B. V. 100.00 2, 94 127 HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Retail Services Inc. 100.00 27 1, 2, 94 HSBC Leasing Asia Limited 100.00 HSBC Retirement Benefits Trustee UK Limited 100.00 4, 74 1, 156 HSBC Leasing France 100.00 HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited 69.40 87 231 HSBC Life International Limited 100.00 HSBC Savings Bank Philippines Inc. 100.00 94 14, 27 HSBC Life UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Asia Limited 100.00 95 1, 161 HSBC Life Assurance Malta Limited 70.03 HSBC Securities B Berhad 100.00 51 93 HSBC Life Insurance Company Limited 50.00 HSBC Securities Canada Inc. 100.00 94 69 HSBC Lodge Funding UK Holdings 100.00 HSBC Securities Egypt S. A. E. 94.53 1, 2, 94 94 HSBC London Holdings Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Japan Limited 100.00 94 1, 12, 92 HSBC LU Nominees Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Philippines Inc. 100.00 108 12, 58 HSBC Management Guernsey Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Singapore Pte Limited 100.00 25 56 HSBC Markets Asia Limited In Liquidation 100.00 HSBC Securities South Africa Pty Limited 100.00 127 38 HSBC Markets USA Inc. 100.00 HSBC Securities Taiwan Corporation Limited 100.00 1, 94 127 HSBC Marking Name Nominee UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities USA Inc. 100.00 HSBC Mexico, S. A. Institucion fide Banca Multiple, HSBC Securities and Capital Markets India Private Grupo Financiero HSBC 99.99 Limited 100.00 201 16, 85 218 199 HSBC Middle East Finance Company Limited 80.00 HSBC Securities Asia International Nominees Limited 100.00 16, 94 27 HSBC Middle East Holdings B. V. 100.00 HSBC Securities Asia Nominees Limited 100.00 19, 183 27 HSBC Middle East Leasing Partnership 100.00 HSBC Securities Brokers Asia Limited 100.00 154 27 HSBC Middle East Securities L. L. C 49.00 HSBC Securities Investments Asia Limited 100.00 16, 98 87 HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada 100.00 HSBC Securities Services Bermuda Limited 100.00 127 108 HSBC Mortgage Corporation USA 100.00 HSBC Securities Services Guernsey Limited 100.00 127 26 HSBC Mortgage Services Inc. 100.00 HSBC Securities Services Ireland DAC 100.00 31 45 HSBC Nominees Asing Sdn Bhd 100.00 HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg S. A.
100.00 27 134 HSBC Nominees Hong Kong Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Services USA Inc. 100.00 164 208 HSBC Nominees New Zealand Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Services Holding Limited 100.00 31 26 HSBC Nominees Tempatan Sdn Bhd 100.00 HSBC Securities Services Holdings Ireland DAC 100.00 16, 127 150 HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 100.00 HSBC Seguros fide Retiro Argentina S. A.
100.00 150 HSBC Seguros fide Vida Argentina S. A.
100.00 HSBC Odeme Sistemleri Bilgisayar Teknolojileri Basin Yayin five Musteri Hizmetleri 99.99 115 202 HSBC Seguros, S. A fide C. V. Grupo Financiero HSBC 100.00 2, 94 174 HSBC Overseas Holdings UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Service Delivery Polska Sp.
100.00 2, 94 4, 29 HSBC Overseas Investments UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Services France 100.00 128 188 HSBC Overseas Investments Corporation New York 100.00 HSBC Services Japan Limited 100.00 1, 94 201 HSBC Overseas Nominee UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Servicios Financieros, S. A. fide C. V 100.00 150 201 HSBC Participaciones Argentina S. A.
100.00 HSBC Servicios, S. A. fide C. V. Grupo Financiero HSBC 100.00 167 4,44 HSBC PB Corporate Services 1 Limited 100.00 HSBC SFH France 100.00 210 223 HSBC PB Services Suisse SA 100.00 HSBC Software Development Canada Inc 100.00 26 22, 215 HSBC Pension Trust Ireland DAC 100.00 HSBC Software Development Guangdong Limited 100.00 202 159 HSBC Pensiones, S. A.
100.00 HSBC Software Development India Private Limited 100.00 160 222 HSBC PI Holdings Mauritius Limited 100.00 HSBC Software Development Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100.00 114 19, 42 HSBC Portfoy Yonetimi A. S. 100.00 HSBC South Point Investments Barbados LLP 100.00 94 16, 94 HSBC Preferential LP UK 100.00 HSBC Specialist Investments Limited 100.00 200 HSBC Private Bank C. I.
Limited 100.00 HSBC Stockbroker Services Client Assets Nominees Limited 100.00 45 1, 94 HSBC Private Bank Luxembourg S. A.
100.00 4, 48 1, 94 HSBC Private Bank Monaco SA 100.00 HSBC Stockbrokers Nominee UK Limited 100.00 210 27 HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA 100.00 HSBC Structured Funds Asia Limited 100.00 94 127 HSBC Private Bank UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Taxpayer Financial Services Inc. 100.00 41 22, 179 HSBC Private Bank International 100.00 HSBC Technology & Services China Limited 100.00 210 127 HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA 100.00 HSBC Technology & Services USA Inc. 100.00 167 10, 36 HSBC Private Banking Nominee 3 Jersey Limited 100.00 HSBC TFS I 2005 LLC 100.00 10, 127 1, 94 HSBC Private Equity Advisors LLC 100.00 HSBC TKM Limited 100.00 94 6, 238 HSBC Private Equity Investments UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Transaction Services GmbH 80.65 27 1, 45 HSBC Private Trustee Hong Kong Limited 100.00 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt International S. A.
80.65 16, 64 24, 176 HSBC Private Wealth Services Canada Inc. 100.00 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG 80.65 85 HSBC Professional Services India Private Limited 100.00 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt Gesellschaft fur Bankbeteiligungen mbH 80.65 94 176 HSBC Property UK Limited 100.00 94 176 HSBC Property Funds Holding Limited 100.00 HSBC Trinkaus Consult GmbH 80.65 153 176 HSBC Property Funds Investment Limited 100.00 HSBC Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
5 GmbH 80.65 268 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Group Subsidiaries interest % Subsidiaries interest % Footnotes Footnotes 6, 176 94 HSBC Trinkaus Family Office GmbH 80.65 James Capel Custodian Nominees Limited 100.00 176 94 HSBC Trinkaus Immobilien Beteiligungs KG 80.65 James Capel Nominees Limited 100.00 6, 176 94 HSBC Trinkaus Real Estate GmbH 80.65 James Capel Second Nominees Limited 100.00 151 94 HSBC Trust Company BVI Limited 100.00 James Capel Taiwan Nominees Limited 100.00 98 94 HSBC Trust Company Canada 100.00 James Capel Third Nominees Limited 100.00 94 John Lewis Financial Services Limited 100.00 HSBC Trust Company Delaware, National Association 100.00 1,67 101 Katonah Close Corp. 100.00 94 94 HSBC Trust Company UK Limited 100.00 Keyser Ullmann Limited 100.00 109 175 HSBC Trust Company AG 100.00 Kings Meadow Nominees Limited 100.00 167 94 HSBC Trustee C. I.
Limited 100.00 Legend Estates Limited 100.00 207 168 HSBC Trustee Cayman Limited 100.00 Lemasco Nominees Limited 100.00 200 1, 27 HSBC Trustee Guernsey Limited 100.00 Lion Corporate Services Limited 100.00 27 208 HSBC Trustee Hong Kong Limited 100.00 Lion International Corporate Services Limited 100.00 122 208 HSBC Trustee Mauritius Limited 100.00 Lion International Management Limited 100.00 58 1, 27 HSBC Trustee Singapore Limited 100.00 Lion Management Hong Kong Limited 100.00 1, 2, 94 27 HSBC UK RFB Limited 100.00 Lyndholme Limited 100.00 16, 119 1, 94 HSBC USA Inc. 100.00 MAGIM Client HSBC GIS Nominee UK Limited 100.00 110 175 HSBC Valores S. A.
100.00 Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc 100.00 123 HSBC Violet Investments Mauritius Limited 100.00 Marks and Spencer Retail Financial Services Holdings Limited 100.00 1, 107 175 HSBC Wealth Advisory Israel Ltd 100.00 1, 94 175 HSBC Wealth Client Nominee Limited 100.00 Marks and Spencer Savings and Investments Limited 100.00 114 175 HSBC Yatirim Menkul Degerler A. S. 100.00 Marks and Spencer Unit Trust Management Limited 100.00 150 Maxima S. A. AFJP 100.00 HSBC-D1, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 14, 94 Mercantile Company Limited 100.00 201 Mexicana fide Fomento, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 HSBCD10, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 2, 16, 94 Midcorp Limited 100.00 182 Midland Australia Pty Limited 100.00 HSBC-D2, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 1, 94 Midland Bank Branch Nominees Limited 100.00 1, 94 Midland Nominees Limited 100.00 HSBC-D7, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 166 MIL Cayman Limited 100.00 101 MM Mooring #2 Corp. 100.00 HSBC-D9, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 150 MW Gestion SA 100.00 101 Oakwood Holdings, Inc. 100.00 HSBC-fide, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 16, 201 Promocion en Bienes Raices, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 125 ProServe Bermuda Limited 50.00 HSBC-DG, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 1, 94 Prudential Client HSBC GIS Nominee UK Limited 100.00 236 PT Bank HSBC Indonesia 98.94 HSBC-DH, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 83 PT HSBC Securities Indonesia 85.00 10, 127 PTC New LLC 100.00 HSBC-DL, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 127 R CLIP Corp. 100.00 127 Real Estate Collateral Management Company 100.00 HSBC-E2, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 200 Republic Nominees Limited 100.00 80 Republic Overseas Capital Corporation 100.00 HSBC-E3, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion en Instrumentos fide Deuda 100.00 1, 201 20, 74 S. A. P. C. - Ufipro Recouvrement 99.98 4, 89 Saf Baiyun 100.00 HSBC-FF, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 4, 89 Saf Chang Jiang 100.00 4, 89 Saf Chang Jiang Shi Liu 100.00 HSBC-V2, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 1, 4, 89 Saf Chang Jiang Shi Wu 100.00 4, 89 Saf Chang Jiang Shi'Er 100.00 HSBC-V3, S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad fide Inversion fide Renta Variable 100.00 1, 201 1, 4, 89 Saf Chang Jiang Shiyi 100.00 127 4, 89 HSI Asset Securitization Corporation 100.00 Saf Guangzhou 100.00 96 4, 89 HSI International Limited 62.14 Saf Zhu Jiang 100.00 94 4, 89 HSIL Investments Limited 100.00 Saf Zhu Jiang Yi 100.00 22, 197 4, 89 Hubei Macheng HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 Saf Zhu Jiang Ba 100.00 4, 89 Saf Zhu Jiang Er 100.00 Hubei Suizhou Cengdu HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 22, 194 4, 89 Saf Zhu Jiang Jiu 100.00 22, 99 4, 89 Hubei Tianmen HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 Saf Zhu Jiang Liu 100.00 22, 213 4, 89 Hunan Pingjiang HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 Saf Zhu Jiang Qi 100.00 96 4, 89 Imenson Limited 62.14 Saf Zhu Jiang San 100.00 238 4, 89 INKA Internationale  mbH 80.65 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi 100.00 201 4, 89 Inmobiliaria Banci, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Ba 100.00 201 4, 89 Inmobiliaria Bisa, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Er 100.00 201 4, 89 Inmobiliaria Grufin, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Jiu 100.00 201 4, 89 Inmobiliaria Guatusi, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Liu 100.00 1, 88 4, 89 IRERE Property Investments French Offices Sarl 100.00 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Qi 100.00 94 4, 89 James Capel & Co. Limited 100.00 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Wu 100.00 168 4, 89 James Capel Channel Islands Nominees Limited 100.00 Saf Zhu Jiang Shiyi 100.00 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 269 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Group Group Subsidiaries interest % Subsidiaries interest % Footnotes Footnotes 4, 89 109 Saf Zhu Jiang Wu 100.00 Tempus Management AG 100.00 167 4, 44 Samada Limited 100.00 Thasosfin 100.00 1, 94 Samuel Montagu & Co. Limited 100.00 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 100.00 1, 4, 43 13, 27 SAS BosquetAudrain 94.90 1, 4, 74 94 SAS Cyatheas Pasteur 94.93 The Venture Catalysts Limited 100.00 1,4, 28 127 SAS Orona 94.93 Timberlink Settlement Services USA Inc. 100.00 20,89 94 SCI Hervet Mathurins 100.00 TKM International Limited 100.00 1, 20, 44 1, 94 SCI HSBC Assurances Immo 100.00 Tooley Street View Limited 100.00 108 32 Secondary Club Deal I GP Limited 100.00 Tower Investment Management 100.00 108 Secondary Club Deal II GP Limited 100.00 Trinkaus Australien Immobilien Fonds Nr.
1 Brisbane GmbH & Co. KG 80.65 56 176 SFSS Nominees Pty Limited 100.00 Shandong Rongcheng HSBC Rural Bank Company Trinkaus Australien Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
1 TreuhandLimited 100.00 GmbH 80.65 22, 198 6, 176 1, 94 Shenfield Nominees Limited 100.00 Trinkaus Canada Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
1 Verwaltungs-GmbH 80.65 235 176 Sico Limited 100.00 1, 20, 78 SNC Dorique 100.00 Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
3 Objekt Utrecht Verwaltungs-GmbH 80.65 1, 20, 89 176 SNC Kerouan 100.00 1, 20, 89 SNC Les Mercuriales 100.00 Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds  80.65 20, 89 6, 176 SNC Les Oliviers D'Antibes 60.00 1, 20, 89 6, 176 SNC Makala 100.00 Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds Verwaltungs-GmbH 80.65 1, 20, 89 176 SNC Nuku-Hiva Bail 100.00 Trinkaus Private Equity Management GmbH 80.65 1, 4, 89 6, 176 SNCB M6 - 2008 A 100.00 Trinkaus Private Equity Verwaltungs GmbH 80.65 1, 4, 89 166 SNCB M6-2007 A 100.00 Tropical Nominees Limited 100.00 1, 4, 89 101 SNCB M6-2007 B 100.00 Trumball Management, Inc. 100.00 1, 94 Turnsonic Nominees Limited 100.00 Societe CCF Finance Moyen-Orient S. A. L. in liquidation 99.90 1, 220 203 Vadep Holding AG 100.00 4, 29 4, 30 Socit Financire et Mobilire 100.00 Valeurs Mobilires Elyses 100.00 4, 89 108 Socit Franaise et Suisse 100.00 Vintage 2016 HV GP Limited 100.00 210 108 Societe Immobiliere Atlas S. A.
100.00 Vintage 2016 KKR GP Limited 100.00 19, 121 1, 108 Somers & Co 100.00 Vintage 2017 Athyrium GP Limited 100.00 26 108 Somers Dublin DAC 100.00 Vintage I Secondary GP Limited 100.00 87 108 Somers Nominees Far East Limited 100.00 Vintage III Special Situations GP Limited 100.00 4, 89 27 Sopingest 100.00 Wardley Limited 100.00 1, 94 27 South Yorkshire Light Rail Limited 100.00 Wayfoong Credit Limited 100.00 36 27 SPE 1 2005 Manager Inc. 100.00 Wayfoong Finance Limited 100.00 1, 94 27 St Cross Trustees Limited 100.00 Wayfoong Nominees Limited 100.00 131 187 Sterling Credit Limited 100.00 Wayhong Bahamas Limited 100.00 22, 212 10, 127 Sun Hung Kai Development Lujiazui III Limited 100.00 Westminster House, LLC 100.00 94 87 Swan National Leasing Commercials Limited 100.00 Woodex Limited 100.00 94 96 Swan National Limited 100.00 Yan Nin Development Company Limited 62.14 Tasfiye Halinde HSBC Internet five Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri Anonim Sirketi 96.00 12, 116 1, 12, 187 Tayside Holdings Limited In liquidation 100.00 270 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Joint Ventures Associates The undertakings below are Joint Ventures and equity The undertakings below are associates and equity accounted.
Group Associates interest % Footnotes Group Joint Ventures interest % Footnotes 1, 206 AREIT Management Ltd 41.90 1, 217 GSI Retail Property Holdings Limited 50.00 1, 129 Ashwood Energy Limited 25.00 153 HCM Holdings Limited 51.00 193 Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. 19.03 1, 225 HOUSe Network Sdn Bhd 25.00 81 Barrowgate Limited 15.31 HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Company 37 Business Growth Fund plc 24.31 49.00 Limited 1, 22, 50 Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life HSBC Kingdom Africa Investments Cayman Insurance Company Limited 26.00 232 50.00 Limited 1, 186 1, 21, 47 CFAC Payment Scheme Limited 33.33 60 Vaultex UK Limited 50.00 173 Chemi & Cotex Rwanda Limited 33.33 55 Vaultex Isle of Man Insurance Limited 50.00 185 Chemi & Cotex Kenya Limited 34.00 1, 204 Chemi and Cotex Industries Limited 34.00 Electronic Payment Services Company Hong Kong Limited 19.33 1, 27 1, 27 EPS Company Hong Kong Limited 38.66 1, 7, 73 GIE GNIFI 25.00 1, 10, 33 GZHS Research Co Ltd 20.51 Hang Seng Qianhai Fund Management Company Limited 43.50 22, 62 31 HSBC Amanah Takaful Malaysia Berhad 49.00 154 HSBC Middle East Securities L. L. C 49.00 1, 19, 72 HSBC Mortgage LLP 33.30 10, 36 HSBC TFS II 2005 LLC 20.00 1, 10, 117 Icon Brickell LLC 24.90 1, 106 Intercede Holdco Limited 29.92 1, 129 Jeppe Star Limited 34.00 1, 180 MENA Infrastructure Fund GP Ltd 33.33 1, 129 NAS Holding Limited 22.13 1, 10, 39 NAS United Healthcare Services LLC 22.13 97 Northstar Trade Finance Inc. 17.89 1, 172 Novo Star Limited 34.00 209 SABB Takaful 45.50 1, 20, 184 SCI Karuvefa 33.33 5, 145 sino AG 20.16 1, 16, 166 The Headland Asian Ventures Fund 3 Limited 32.59 1, 8, 120 The London Gold Market Fixing Limited 25.00 104 The Saudi British Bank 40.00 Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
7 Frankfurt Mertonviertel KG 33.22 1, 9, 176 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 271 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Footnotes for Note 38 2-3 F, Unit 21A, Qianhai Enterprise Dream Park, No.
63 Qian Wan Yi Road, Qianhai 62 Shenzhen-Hongkong Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen China 1 Management has determined that these undertakings are excluded from consolidation in the 63 24th Fl.
Taipei, Taiwan, R. O. C. Group accounts as these entities do not meet the definition of subsidiaries in accordance 64 2910 Virtual Way, Vancouver BC, V5M 0B2, Canada with IFRSs.
HSBCs consolidation policy is described in Note 1.2 a.
65 3, Aboul Feda Street, Zamalek, Cairo Egypt 2 Directly held by HSBC Holdings plc 66 300 Delaware Avenue, Suite 1400, Wilmington, fide 19801, United States 3 Entity is incorporated in The Netherlands 67 300 Delaware Avenue, Suite 1401, Wilmington, fide 19801, United States Description of shares 68 300, 885 West Georgia Street Vancouver BC V6C 3E9 Canada 4 Actions shares 69 306 Corniche El Nil Maadi, Cairo 11728, Egypt 5 Aktiengesellschaft AG shares 70 3303 Express Drive North Islandia NY 11749 United States 6 GmbH Anteil 34 F and 36 F, Hang Seng Bank Tower, 1000 Lujiazui Ring Road 27 F, Shanghai Stock 71 Exchange Bldg, 528 Pudong South Road Shanghai 200120 China 7 Groupement D'intrt Economique shares 72 35 Great St Helens, London EC3A 6AP, United Kingdom 8 Guarantee shares 73 37 Avenue Henri Lafleur Nouma, BP K3 98849, New Caledonia 9  KG shares 74 39, Rue fide Bassano, 75008, Paris, France 10 Limited Liability Company no shares 3rd Floor, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Building Al Souq Road, Bur Dubai PO Box 4604, 11 Liquidating shares 75 Dubai United Arab Emirates 12 Nominal shares 3rd Floor, Merchantile Bank Chamber 16, Veer Nariman Road Fort Mumbai Maharashtra 76 400001 India 13 Ordinary and Cumulative Irredeemable and Non-cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares 4-17 F, Office Tower 2 TaiKoo Hui, No.
381 Tian He Road, Tian He District Guangzhou 14 Ordinary and Deferred shares 77 Guangdong China 15 Ordinary and Non-Voting Redeemable shares 78 43, Rue fide Paris, Saint Denis 97400, Reunion 16 Ordinary and Preference shares 79 439, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha Welikada, Rajagiriya, Colombo, Sri Lanka 17 Ordinary Non-Participating, Non Voting shares 80 452 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY10018, United States 18 Ordinary Redeemable Non Participating shares 81 49 F, The Lee Gardens, 33 Hysan Avenue Hong Kong 19 Partnership shares 4th Floor, Harbour Place 103 South Church Street George Town Grand Cayman KY1-1002 82 Cayman Islands 20 Parts shares 83 4th Floor, World Trade Center, J1, Jend.
29-31 Jakarta 12920 Indonesia 21 Preference shares 84 5 Donegal Square South Belfast BT1 5JP Northern Ireland 22 Registered Capital shares 85 52 60, M G Road Fort, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400 001 India 23 Russian limited liability company shares 86 545 Washington Blvd.
11th Floor Jersey City NJ 07310 United States 24 Stckaktien 87 6 Front Street, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda 88 6, Rue Adolphe Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg L-1116 Luxembourg Registered Offices 89 64, Rue Galile, 75008, Paris, France 25 Liquidator's address 62 F One Island East 18 Westlands Road, Island East Hong Kong 90 66 Teryan street Yerevan 9 Armenia 26 1 Grand Canal Square, Grand Canal Harbour, Dublin 2, D02 P820, Ireland 91 6th Floor, HSBC Centre, 18, Cybercity, Ebene Mauritius 27 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong 7 F The Enterprise Centre - Tower I, 6766 Ayala Avenue corner Paseo fide Roxas, Makati City, 92 Philippines 28 10, Rue Jean Jaurs BP Q5 Noumea 98845 Nouvelle Caldonie 93 70 York Street, 7th Floor, Toronto ON, M5J 1S9 Canada 29 103, Avenue des Champs-Elyses, 75008, Paris, France 94 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ, United Kingdom 30 109, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, 75008, Paris, France 95 80, Mill Street, Qormi, QRM 3101, Malta 31 10th Floor, North Tower 2, Leboh Ampang 50100, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 96 83 Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong SAR 32 11 Dr. Roys Drive PO Box 694GT Grand Cayman KY1-1107 Cayman Islands 97 833 Three Bentall Centre, 595 Burrard Street, Vancouver BC V7X 1C4, Canada 1101-J46, 11 F, Nansha Financial Building 171 Haibin Road, Nansha District Guangzhou 33 China 98 885 West Georgia Street, Suite 300, Vancouver BC, V6C 3E9, Canada 34 11-17, Ludwig-Erhard-Str.
20459, Hamburg, Germany 99 89 Jingling Hongjian Avenue Tianmen Hubei Province 431700 China 35 116 Archbishop Street Valletta Malta 9-11 Floors, NESCO IT Park Building No.
3, Western Express Highway, Goregaon East, 100 Mumbai, Maharashtra 400063, India 36 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19899, United States 101 95 Washington Street, Buffalo NY, 14203, United States 37 13-15 York Buildings, London, Great Britain, WC2N 6JU, United Kingdom 102 9th Floor, HSBC Centre 3058 Fifth Avenue West, Bonifacio Global City Taguig City Philippines 38 13F-14F, 333 Keelung Road, Sec.
1 Taipei 110 Taiwan, Province of China 103 Akara Bldg.
24 fide Castro Street Wickhams Cay I, Road Town Tortola Virgin Islands, British 13th Floor, Lulu Center Building, Salam Street, PO Box 44505, Abu Dhabi, United Arab 39 Emirates 104 Al Amir Abdulaziz Ibn Mossaad Ibn Jalawi Street Riyadh Saudi Arabia 40 13th Floor, South Tower 2, Leboh Ampang, 50100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 105 Al Khuwair Office PO Box 1727 PC111 CPO Seeb Muscat Oman 41 1441 Brickell Avenue, Miami FL 33131, United States Alderflat Drive, Newstead Industrial Estate, Trentham Stoke on Trent, ST4 8HX, United 106 Kingdom 42 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL, United Kingdom 107 Amot Atrium Tower, 30th Floor, 2 Jabotinsky St,.
Ramat Gan 5250501, Israel 43 15 Rue Guynemer BP 412 Noumea 98845 Nouvelle Caldonie 108 Arnold House, St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, GY1 3NF, Guernsey 44 15, Rue Vernet, 75008, Paris France 109 Bederstrasse 49, CH-8002, Zurich, Switzerland 45 16 Boulevard d'Avranches, L-1160, Luxembourg 110 Bouchard 680, 11 Ciudad fide Buenos Aires 1106 Argentina 46 16F, 369 Zhongxiao East Road, Section 7 Nangang District, Taipei 115, Taiwan 111 Bouchard 680, 9 Ciudad fide Buenos Aires 1106 Argentina 47 17 Rochester Row, London SW1P 1QT, United Kingdom 112 Breite Str.
29 31 40213 Dsseldorf Germany 48 17, Avenue d'Ostende, 98000, Monaco 113 Bufete Tapia, PO Box 7412 Panama 5 Panama 49 171, Old Bakery Street, Valletta VLT 1455, Malta 114 Bykdere Cad.
128 D Blok Esentepe, Sisli Istanbul, Turkey 50 17F, HSBC Building, Shanghai IFC, 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, Shanghai, China 115 Bykdere Cad.
No:124 B Blok Kat 9 Oda:1, Esentepe, Sisli, I Turkey 18 F, HSBC Building, 8 Century Avenue, China Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, 200120, 51 China 116 Buyukdere Cad.
No:124 B Blok Kat 9 Oda:2 34394, Sisli Ese Turkey 52 1800 Tysons Boulevard, Suite 50, McLean, Virginia 22102, United States 117 C T Corporation System 1200 South Pine Island Road Plantation FL 33324 United States 53 18th Floor, Tower 1, HSBC Centre, 1 Sham Mong Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong C O Bank of Bermuda Cayman Limited, PO Box 513, HSBC House, 68 West Bay Road, 118 Grand Cayman KY1-1106, Cayman Islands 54 192 Old Bakery Street, Valletta, Malta C O Corporation Trust Incorporated, 351 West Camden Street, Baltimore MD 21201, United 55 1st Floor Rose House, 51-59 Circular Road, Douglas IM1 1RE, Isle of Man 119 States 56 2 Exchange Square, 85 Maude Street, Sandown, Sandton 2196, South Africa 120 C O Hackwood Secretaries Limited, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom 57 2 Paveletskaya square, building 2, 115054 Moscow, Russia 121 C O HSBC AFS USA LLC, 452 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10018, United States 58 21 Collyer Quay, #13-02, HSBC Building, 49320, Singapore 122 C O HSBC Bank Mauritius Limited 6th Floor, HSBC Centre, 18 Cyber City, Ebene, Mauritius 59 21 Farncombe Road, Worthing, Sussex BN11 2BW, England C O Kross Border Trust Services Limited, St. Louis Business Centre, Cnr Desroches & St 123 Louis Streets, Port Louis, Mauritius 60 21, Garlick Hill, London, EC4V 2AU, United Kingdom 61 2156 Horse Prairie Drive, Henderson, NV 89052, United States 272 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 C O Morrison & Foerster UK LLP, City Point, 1 Ropemake Street, London EC2Y 9AW, Level 36, Tower 1, International Towers Sydney, 100 Barangaroo Avenue, Sydney, NSW 124 United Kingdom 182 2000, Australia C O MUFG Fund Services Bermuda Limited The Belvedere Building 69 Pitts Bay Road Level 4, Building 4, The Gate Dubai International Financial Centre PO Box 506553 Dubai 125 Pembroke HM08 Bermuda 183 United Arab Emirates C O The Corporation Trust Company 100 S. 5th Street-Suite 1075 Minneapolis MN 55401 184 Lot n5, la Rocade, Grand Camp LES ABYMES 97142 Guadeloupe 126 United States 185 LR No.
1758 13 Grevella Grove Road Kalamu House PO Box 47323-00100 Nairobi Kenya C O The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, United 127 States Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, 186 George Town, Grand Cayaman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands C O The Corporation Trust Incorporated 351 West Camden Street Baltimore MD 21201 128 United States 187 Mareva House, 4 George Street, Nassau, Bahamas 129 C O Trident Trust Company, Trident Chambers, PO Box 146, Tortola, British Virgin Islands MB&H Corporate Services Ltd, Mareva House, 4 George Street, Nassau, New Providence, 188 Bahamas C O Walkers SPV Limited, Walker House 87 Mary Street, PO Box 908GT George Town Grand 130 Cayman Cayman Islands 189 MMG Tower, 23 Floor Ave. Paseo del Mar Urbanizacion Costa del Este Panama 131 Camden House West, The Parade, Birmingham, B1 3PY, United Kingdom 190 No 1, Bei Huan East Road Dazu County Chongqing China 132 City Gate House 22 Southwark Bridge Road London SE1 9HB 191 No 107, Ping Du Avenue E, Sanhe Town, Fengdu County Chongqing China Corporation Service Company 2711 Centerville Road Suite 400 Wilmington fide 19808 United 192 No.
1 1211 Yanjiang Zhong Road Yongan Fujian China 133 States 193 No.
188 Yincheng Zhong Lu, Pudong New District Shanghai 200120 China 134 Corporation Service Company 830 Bear Tavern Road West Trenton NJ 08628 United States 194 No.
205, Lie Shan Road Suizhou Hubei China CT Corporation System 1515 Market Street Registered Office Philadelphia PA 19102 United 135 States 195 No.
3, 5, 7, Haitang Erzhi Road Changyuan, Rongchang Chongqing 402460 China 136 CT Corporation System 1720 Carey Avenue Cheyenne WY 82001 United States 196 No.
44, Xin Ping Road Central, Encheng, Enping Guangdong 529400 China CT Corporation System 2 North Jackson Street Suite 605 Montgomery AL 36104 United 197 No.
56, Yu Rong Street Macheng Hubei Province 438300 China 137 States 198 No.
198-2, Chengshan Avenue E Rongcheng Shangdong 264300 China 138 CT Corporation System 2222 Grand Avenue Des Moines IA 50312 United States 199 Palm Grove House PO Box 438 Road Town Tortola British Virgin Islands 139 CT Corporation System 225 Hillsborough Street Raleigh NC 27603 United States 200 Park Place, Park Street, St Peter Port, GY1 1EE, Guernsey 140 CT Corporation System Kentucky Home Life Building Louisville KY 40202 United States 201 Paseo fide la Reforma 347, Col. Cuauhtemoc, 6500, Mexico 141 CT Corporation System, 530 Gay Street, Knoxville, TN 37902, United States 202 Paseo fide la Reforma 359, 6th Floor, D. F. 6500, Mexico 142 CT Corporation System, 800 S. Figueroa, Los Angeles, California 90017, United States 203 Philippe Kaiser Baarerstrasse 8 6300 Zug Switzerland CT Corporation System, Secretary of State, 707 Virginia Street, East Charleston, WV 25301, 143 United States Plot No.
89-90 Mbezi Industrial Area Box 347 Dar es Salaam City United Republic of 204 Tanzania Drake House, Three Rivers Court, Homestead Road, Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire, WD3 144 1FX, United Kingdom 205 PO Box 1109, HSBC House 68 West Bay Road Grand Cayman KY1-1102 Cayman Islands 145  1 40212 Duesseldorf Germany PO Box 309 Ugland House, South Church Street George Town Grand Cayman KY1 - 1104 206 Cayman Islands 146 Esentepe Mah.
128 Istanbul 34394 Turkey PO Box 484, Ground Floor, HSBC House 68 West Bay Road Grand Cayman, KY1-1106 147 First & Second Floor, No.
3 Nanshan Road, Pulandian Dalian Liaoning Province China 207 Cayman Islands 148 First Floor, Xinhua Bookstore Xindong Road SE of roundabout Miyun District Beijing China 208 PO Box 71, Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 149 Florida 201 10, Ciudad fide Buenos Aires C1005AAE Argentina 209 PO Box 9086 Riyadh 11413 Saudi Arabia 150 Florida 229, 10 Ciudad fide Buenos Aires, C1005AAE, Argentina 210 Quai des Bergues 9-17, 1201, Geneva, Switzerland Harneys Corporate Services Limited, Craigmuir Chambers, PO Box 71, Road Town, Tortola, 211 Rincon 391 Montevideo 11000 Uruguay 151 British Virgin Islands RM 2112, HSBC Building, Shanghai IFC No.
8 Century Road, Pudong Shanghai 200120 152 Herrengasse 1-3 1010 Wien Austria 212 China 153 Hill House, 1 Little New Street, London EC4A 3TR, United Kingdom RM101, 102 & 106 Sunshine Fairview, Sunshine Garden Pedestrian Walkway Pingjiang 213 Hunan China HSBC Bank Middle East Building - level 5, building 5, Emaar Dubai 502601 United Arab 154 Emirates 214 Rondo ONZ 1 00-124 Warsaw Poland 155 HSBC Building 11-1, Nihonbashi 3-Chome Chuo-ku Tokyo 103-0027 Japan 215 Room 305 No.
886 Tianhe Bei Road, Tianhe District, Guangzhou Guangdong China 156 HSBC Building 7267 Olaya - Al Murrooj Riyadh 12283 - 2255 Saudi Arabia Rua Funchal, n 160, SP Corporate Towers, Torre Norte, 19 Andar, cj 191A - Parte, So 216 Paulo 04551-060, Brazil 157 HSBC Building Shanghai IFC 8 Century Avenue, Pudong Shanghai 200120 China 217 Second Floor, St Peters House, Le Bordage, St Peter Port, GY1 1B, Guernsey 158 HSBC Building, Minet El Hosn, Riad el Solh Beirut 1107-2080, PO Box 11-1380, Lebanon Shop 4 & 5 Ground Floor & Mezzanine, Bldg.
of Hilal Salim Bin Tarraf Al Wasel Area, Sheikh HSBC Centre River Side, West Avenue, 25B Raheja woods Kalyaninagar Pune Maharashtra 218 Zayed Road PO Box 1956 Dubai United Arab Emirates 159 411006 India 219 Smart Village 28th Km CairoAlexandria Desert Road Building Cairo Egypt 160 HSBC Centre, Eighteen Cybercity Ebene, Mauritius Solidere - Rue Saad Zaghloul Immeuble - 170 Marfaa, PO Box 17, 5476 Mar Michael, HSBC Chambers, Corner of Jalan Sultan and Jalan Pemancha Bandar Seri Begawan BS8811 220 11042040 Beyrouth, Lebanon 161 Brunei Darussalam 221 St Nicholas House, 10th Floor Catholic Mission St Lagos Nigeria 162 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, JE1 1HS, Jersey Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah Kwong Hing No.
1, Leboh Ampang 50100, Kuala 163 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, JE4 8UB, Jersey 222 Lumpur, Malaysia 164 HSBC House, Level 9, One Queen Street, Auckland 1010, New Zealand 223 Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver BC V6E 0C5 Canada HSBC House Plot No.
64 Part Hightec City Layout Madhapur Hyderabad 224 Suite 300, 3381 Steeles Avenue East Toronto ON M2H 3S7 Canada 165 Andhra Pradesh 500081 India Suite 8-3A, Menara RA, No.
18, Jalan Dataran SD2, Dataran SD, PJU 9, Bandar Sri HSBC House, 68 West Bay Road, PO Box 1109, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-1102, 225 Damansara 52200 Wilayah Persekutuan Malaysia 166 Cayman Islands The Corporation Trust Company of Nevada 311 S. Division Street Carson City NV 89703 167 HSBC House, Esplanade, St. Helier, JE1 1GT, Jersey 226 United States 168 HSBC House, Esplanade, St. Helier, JE4 8WP, Jersey 227 The Metropolitan 235 Dong Khoi Street District 1, Ho Chi Minh City Viet Nam HSBC, Filinvest One Bldg, Northgate Cyberzone, Filinvest Corporate City Alabang, The R&H Trust Co. Ltd. Windward 1, Regatta Office Park PO Box 897 Grand Cayman 169 Muntinlupa City Philippines 228 KY1-1103 Cayman Islands Immeuble Coeur Dfense 110, Esplanade du Gnral fide GaulleLa Dfense 4 92400 229 Tour Crystal 1 10EME Etage BD Al Mohades 20000 Casablanca, ANFA Morocco 170 Courbevoie France Unit 04A-04B, 1F, Bangunan Gadong Properties Jalan Gadong Bandar Seri Begawan BE4119 171 Isidora Goyenechea 2800, 23rd Floor, Las Condes, Santiago 7550647, Chile 230 Brunei Darussalam 172 Jayla Place Wickhams Cay I PO Box 3190 Road Town Tortola British Virgin Islands Unit 1 GF The Commercial Complex Madrigal Avenue Ayala Alabang Village Muntinlupa City 231 1770 Philippines 173 Kacyiru BP 3094 Kigali Rwanda Unit No.
208, 2nd Floor, Kanchenjunga Building, 18 Barakhamba Road, New Delhi - 110001, 174 Kapelanka 42A 30-347 Krakow Poland 232 India 175 Kings Meadow, Chester Business Park, Chester, Cheshire CH99 9FB, United Kingdom 233 Unsoeldstrasse 2, 80538, Munich, Germany 176 Knigsallee 21 23, 40212, Dsseldorf Germany Walkers Corporate Services Limited, Walker House, 87 Mary Street, George Town, Grand 234 Cayman KY1-9005, Cayman Islands Level 1, Building No.
8, Gate Village Dubai International Financial Centre PO Box 502601 177 United Arab Emirates 235 Woodbourne Hall, Road Town, PO Box 916, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 178 Level 12, HSBC Building 37, Chilpae-ro Jung-gu Seoul Korea, Republic of World Trade Center 1, Floor 8-9 Jalan Jenderal Sudirman Kavling 29 - 31 Jakarta 12920 236 Indonesia 179 Level 19, HSBC Building, Shanghai IFC 8 Century Avenue Pudong Shanghai China World Trade Center Montevideo Avenida Luis Alberto fide Herrera 1248 Torre 1, Piso 15, Level 3 Building 4, Gate District Dubai International Financial Centre Dubai MENA United 237 Oficina 1502 Montevideo CP 11300 Uruguay 180 Arab Emirates 238 Yorckstrae 21 - 23, 40476, Duesseldorf, Germany 181 Level 32, HSBC Main Building 1 Queen's Road Central Hong Kong SAR Hong Kong HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 273 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
