Shareholder information Shareholder information Page Fourth interim dividend for 2016 274 Interim dividends for 2017 274 2016 Annual General Meeting 274 Earnings Releases and Interim Results 274 Shareholder enquiries and communications 275 Stock symbols 276 Investor relations 276 Where more information about HSBC is available 276 Taxation of shares and dividends 277 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 279 Certain defined terms 279 Abbreviations 280 A glossary of terms used in this Annual Report and Accounts can be found in the Investor Relations section of www.
com Fourth interim dividend for 2016 The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2016 of $0.21 per ordinary share.
Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 8March 2017.
The timetable for the dividend is: Footnote Announcement 21 February 2017 American Depositary Shares ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York 22 February 2017 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda 23 February 2017 Record date London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris, Bermuda 1 24 February 2017 Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2016 and or Strategic Report 2016 and dividend documentation 8 March 2017 Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing 23 March 2017 instructions for scrip dividends Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars 27 March 2017 Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed and shares 6 April 2017 credited to stock accounts in CREST 1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date.
Interim dividends for 2017 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on ordinary shares.
Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend.
It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2017 will be $0.10 per ordinary share.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Boards determination that a scrip dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
2016 Annual General Meeting All resolutions considered at the 2016 Annual General Meeting held at 11.00am on 22 April 2016 at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London SW1P 3EE were passed on a poll.
Earnings Releases and Interim Results Earnings Releases are expected to be issued on or around 4 May 2017 and 30 October 2017.
The Interim Results for the six months to 30 June 2017 are expected to be issued on 31 July 2017.
274 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register for example, transfers of shares, changes of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below.
The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically.
Principal Register: Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Hong Kong Investor Investors Relations Team The Pavilions Services Limited HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited Bridgwater Road Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor 6 Front Street Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hopewell Centre Hamilton HM 11 United Kingdom 183 Queens Road East Bermuda Telephone: 44 0 370 702 0137 Hong Kong SAR Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email via website: Telephone: 852 2862 8555 Email: hbbm.
co. uk contactus Email: hsbc.
hk Investor Centre: Investor Centre: Investor Centre: www.
com bm Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Depositary Receipts PO Box 30170 College Station, TX 77842-3170 USA Telephone US : 1 877 283 5786 Telephone International : 1 201 680 6825 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com us contact Pages default.
aspx Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: HSBC France 103, avenue des Champs Elyses 75419 Paris Cedex 08 France Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 Website: www.
fr If you have elected to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered shareholder, or custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf.
Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding including any administration of it must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian or broker.
HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error.
Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2016 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: For those in Europe, the Middle East For those in Asia: For those in the Americas: and Africa: External Affairs Communications Asia US Communications HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
8 Canada Square Corporation Limited 1 West 39th Street, 9th Floor London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central New York, NY 10018 United Kingdom Hong Kong USA Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of their availability on HSBCs website.
To receive notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBCs website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.
If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email.
If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBCs website and would like to receive a printed copy, or if you would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email quoting your shareholder reference number to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 275 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2016 will be available upon request after 8 March 2017 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Computershare Investor Services PLC Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor The Pavilions Hopewell Centre Bridgwater Road 183 Queens Road East Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hong Kong United Kingdom Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents, or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive them in future.
Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC.
BH New York Stock Exchange ADS HSBC Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBCs strategy or operations may be directed to: Richard OConnor, Global Head of Investor Relations Hugh Pye, Head of Investor Relations Asia-Pacific HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 8 Canada Square Corporation Limited London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central United Kingdom Hong Kong Email: investorrelations@hsbc.
com Telephone: 852 2822 4908 Where more information about HSBC is available This Annual Report and Accounts 2016, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBCs website: www.
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N. E. Washington, DC 20549-0213 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.
Investors should call the Commission at 1 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance.
Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013.
The legislation requires HSBC Holdings to publish additional information in respect of the year ended 31December 2016 by 31 December 2017.
This information will be available on HSBCs website: www.
276 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 allowance.
If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to Taxation of shares and dividends consult their professional advisers.
Taxation UK residents Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax The following is a summary, under current law, of certain UK tax Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally considerations that are likely to be material to the ownership will be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the and disposition of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
The consideration paid for the transfer rounded up to the next 5, summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of and such stamp duty is generally payable by the transferee.
An all the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of agreement to transfer shares, or any interest therein, normally shares.
In particular, the summary deals with shareholders who will give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of are resident solely in the UK for UK tax purposes and only with 0.5% of the consideration.
However, provided an instrument of holders who hold the shares as investments and who are the transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the agreement beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address the tax and duly stamped before the date on which the stamp duty treatment of certain classes of holders such as dealers in reserve tax becomes payable, under the current practice of UK securities.
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult HM Revenue and Customs HMRC it will not be necessary to their own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be investment in shares in light of their particular circumstances, cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable by the including the effect of any national, state or local laws.
Taxation of dividends Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by rate of 0.5% of the consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax HSBC Holdings.
is calculated and payment made automatically.
Deposits of UK resident individuals shares into CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer into CREST is itself for With effect for the tax year beginning 6 April 2016, UK resident consideration.
Following the case HSBC pursued before the individuals are given an annual tax-free allowance of 5,000 on European Court of Justice Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings plc dividend income.
To the extent that dividend income received by and Vidacos Nominees Ltd v The Commissioners for HM an individual in the relevant tax year does not exceed the Revenue & Customs and a subsequent case in relation to allowance, a nil tax rate will apply.
Dividend income in excess of depositary receipts, HMRC now accepts that the charge to this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for basic rate taxpayers, stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of shares to a 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional rate depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service is prohibited.
Taxation US residents UK resident companies The following is a summary, under current law, of the principal Shareholders that are within the charge to UK corporation UK tax and US federal income tax considerations that are likely taxshould generally be entitled to an exemption from UK to be material to the ownership and disposition of shares or corporation tax on any dividends received from HSBC Holdings.
American Depositary Shares ADSs by a holder that is a However, the exemptions are not comprehensive and are resident of the US for US federal income tax purposes a US subject to anti-avoidance rules.
holder and who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes.
If the conditions for exemption are not met or cease to be The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive satisfied, or a shareholder within the charge to UK corporation description of all of the tax considerations that may be relevant tax elects for an otherwise exempt dividend to be taxable, the to a holder of shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary deals shareholder will be subject to UK corporation tax on dividends only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, received from HSBC Holdings at the rate of corporation tax and does not address the tax treatment of holders that are applicable to that shareholder.
subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, Scrip dividends insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as part of an integrated Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC investment including a straddle comprised of a share or ADS Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 2015 fourth and one or more other positions, and persons that own, directly interim dividend and the first, second and third interim or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of HSBC dividends for 2016 was set out in the Secretarys letters to Holdings.
This discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial shareholders of 18 March, 3 June, 25 August and 3 November decisions and regulatory interpretations in effect on the date 2016.
In no case was the difference between the cash dividend hereof, all of which are subject to change.
forgone and the market value of the scrip dividend in excess of 15% of the market value.
Accordingly, for individual Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own shareholders, the amount of the dividend income chargeable to advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in tax, and, the acquisition price of the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, shares for UK capital gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend including the effect of any national, state or local laws.
Any US federal tax advice included in this Annual Report and Taxation of capital gains Accounts is for informational purposes only: it was not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising on avoiding US federal tax penalties.
disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly depending on Taxation of dividends whether, for example, the shares were purchased since April Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong Holdings.
For US tax purposes, a US holder must include cash and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other companies.
date that such holder or the ADS depositary receives them, For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into US dollars shares is adjusted to take account of subsequent rights and using the exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt.
Any capital gain arising on a disposal by a holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash dividend UK company may also be adjusted to take account of indexation must include in ordinary income the fair market value of such HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 277 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information shares on the dividend payment date, and the tax basis of those No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement shares will equal such fair market value.
to transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less at all times outside the UK, and provided further that any such than 61 days or are hedged, and subject to a foreign corporation transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the being considered a qualified foreign corporation which UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, includes not being classified for US federal income tax purposes or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an as a passive foreign investment company, certain dividends ADR.
qualified dividends received by an individual US holder generally will be subject to US taxation at preferential rates.
US backup withholding tax and information reporting Based on the companys audited financial statements and Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through anticipate being classified as a passive foreign investment certain financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to company.
Accordingly, dividends paid on the shares or ADSs information reporting and may be subject to a US backup generally should be treated as qualified dividends.
withholding tax unless, in general, the US holder complies with Taxation of capital gains certain certification procedures or is a corporation or other person exempt from such withholding.
Holders that are not US Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of persons generally are not subject to information reporting or shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with unless at the time of the sale or other disposition the holder applicable certification procedures to establish that they are not carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a US persons in order to avoid the application of such information branch or agency or permanent establishment and the shares or reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the purposes received within the US or through certain financial of such trade, profession, vocation, branch or agency or intermediaries.
Such gains will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be longterm capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one year.
A longterm capital gain realised by an individual US holder generally will be subject to US tax at preferential rates.
Inheritance tax Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes of the United StatesUnited Kingdom Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a national of the UK, ii are part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertain to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate or gift tax.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax ADSs If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American Depositary Receipt ADR issuer which will include a transfer of shares to the Depositary under the current HMRC practice UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5%.
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same transfer.
278 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
