GLOSSARY A D H AGM DEFRA HEMS Annual General Meeting.
UK Department for Environment, Food Hunting Equipment Management Services & Rural Affairs.
provided downhole tool rental equipment AMG in the Well Construction segment.
Advanced Manufacturing Group Diluted EPS combines the precision engineering and Diluted earnings per share calculated HPSP manufacturing capabilities in the Well bydividing earnings from continuing Hunting Performance Share Plan.
Construction segment for the Electronics operations before amortisation and division Hunting Innova and Hunting exceptional items attributable to Ordinary HSE Dearborn product lines.
Hunting is aiming shareholders by the weighted average Health, Safety and Environment.
to become a leading single source of number of Ordinary shares in issue during MWD LWD tools.
the year, as adjusted for all potentially I dilutive Ordinary shares.
API IAS American Petroleum Institute.
Dividend cover International Accounting Standards.
See NGM N. Average gross capital employed IFRIC See NGM O. Downhole International Financial Reporting Downhole refers to something that is Interpretations Committee.
IFRS Basic EPS DPS International Financial Reporting Standards Basic earnings per share calculated by See NGM M. as adopted by the European Union.
dividing the earnings from continuing operations before amortisation and E Incident rate exceptional items attributable to Ordinary The US Occupational Safety and Health shareholders by the weighted average EBITDA Administration OSHA Recordable number of Ordinary shares in issue during See NGM A.
Incident Rate or Incident Rate is the year.
calculated by multiplying the number of ESOP recordable incidents by 200,000 and then bbl Executive Share Option Plan.
dividing that number by the number of Barrel of oil one barrel of oil equals labour hours worked.
F Intensity factor BOE FRC The total controlled scope 1 and scope 2 Barrel of oil equivalent.
emissions divided by the total facilities footprint of the Group.
bn Free cash flow Billion.
See NGM L. Inventory days See NGM D. C FVLCD Fair value less costs of disposal.
G IP CAGR GAAP Intellectual Property.
Compound annual revenue growth rate.
ISO Capital employed Gearing International Standards Organisation.
See NGM G. See NGM H. K Capital investment Capex GHG See NGM J. Greenhouse gas.
CGU Growth capital investment Cash generating unit.
See NGM J. kWh Kilowatt hours.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 150 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION L P U Lean p Underlying A production practice that eliminates Pence.
Results for the year, as reported under wasteful processes, thereby reducing IFRS, adjusted for amortisation of production time and costs, and PCB acquired intangible assets and exceptional improvingefficiency.
items, which is the basis used by the Directors in assessing performance.
LNG PPE Liquefied Natural Gas.
W LPG PSP Wellbore Liquefied Petroleum Gas.
The wellbore refers to the drilled hole.
LTIP R Well completion Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Well completion refers to the processes RCF ofpreparing a well for production.
Thisinvolves the assembly of downhole tubulars and equipment required to enable m Recordable incidents safe and efficient production from an oil Million.
An incident is recordable if it results in any orgas well.
of the following: death, days away from 3 m work, restricted work or transfer to Well construction Cubic metre.
another job, medical treatment beyond Well construction refers to the initial drilling first aid, or loss of consciousness.
Also and processes of constructing the mcf included are any significant injuries or wellbore in an oil and gas well.
illnesses diagnosed by a physician or processes typically include drilling and other licensed health care professional, logging the hole: running, cementing and mmBtu even if it does not result in death, days logging the casing: hydraulic fracturing Million British Thermal Units.
away from work, restricted work or job orstimulating the well and monitoring well transfer, medical treatment beyond first performance and integrity.
MWD LWD aid, or loss of consciousness.
Replacement capital investment Well intervention refers to any operation See NGM J. carried out on an oil or gas well that MWh maintains or enhances the production Megawatt hours.
ROCE ofthe well or provides well diagnostics.
See NGM O. N Working capital S See NGM C. Net debt See note 23.
Scope 1 WTI Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG West Texas Intermediate the price per NOC emissions from sources that are owned barrel of Texas light sweet crude oil.
emissions include fossil fuels burned on NYMEX site, emissions from vehicles and other New York Mercantile Exchange.
O Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG OCI emissions resulting from the generation of Other comprehensive income.
electricity, heating and cooling or steam generated off site but purchased by the OCTG entity.
Oil Country Tubular Goods pipe and tubular goods and products used in the T oiland gas industry, such as drill pipe, pipe casings and production pipes.
Trade receivable days See NGM E. TSR Total Shareholder Return the net share price change plus the dividends paid during that period.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 151
