Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 87 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Preference Currency shares Merger Other translation Total equity Share Share recognised Retained reserve reserves reserve attributable capital premium as equity earnings see Note23 see Note23 see Note 23 to owners Notes 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2016 4,055 671,759 369,119 1,109 1,097 308,901 Profit for the year 90,363 90,363 Other comprehensive income 58,712 14,946 43,766 Total comprehensive income for the year 31,651 14,946 46,597 Transactions with owners: Share based payments 27 1,526 1,526 Deferred tax on share basedpayment 22 48 48 Equity dividends 33 27,615 27,615 Issue of share capital 24 8 8 At 31 December 2016 4,063 677,361 369,119 1,109 16,043 329,457 On incorporation on 28November 2014 Profit for the period as previously stated 101,574 101,574 Prior year adjustment 1 7,607 7,607 Profit for the period, as restated 93,967 93,967 Other comprehensive income 2,938 1,097 4,035 Total comprehensive income for the financial period as restated 96,905 1,097 98,002 Transactions with owners: Issues of shares of Figgs Topco Limited on incorporation as at 28November 2014 10 9,990 10,000 Figgs Topco Limited shares issued in exchange for shareholder loan notes 56,078 56,078 Issue of Figgs Topco Limited share capital 80 524 604 Ibstock plc share capital issued on incorporation 24 50 50 Ibstock plc shares issued in exchange for shares in Figgs Topco Limited 24 482,668 482,668 Establishment of merger reserve and elimination of Figgs Topco Limited capital 90 10,514 56,078 369,119 435,801 Issue of share capital 24 526 99,473 99,999 Share issue costs 24 4,952 4,952 Share capital and share premium reduction 24 479,189 94,521 573,710 4,055 573,710 369,119 208,646 Share based payments 27 1,199 1,199 Deferred tax on share basedpayment 22 55 55 Contingent consideration onacquisition 26 1,109 1,109 Transactions with owners 4,055 574,854 369,119 1,109 210,899 Balance at 31 December 2015, asrestated 4,055 671,759 369,119 1,109 1,097 308,901 The notes on pages 89 to 136 form an integral part of these Group consolidated financial statements.
See Note 1 for details of the prior period restatement arising in the current year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 88 Consolidated cash flow statement Period from 28 November Year ended 2014 to 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Note 000 000 Cash flow from operating activities Cash generated from operations 29 104,805 91,567 Interest paid 4,588 46,143 Tax paid 6,957 3,460 Net cash inflow from operating activities 93,260 41,964 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 59,151 9,401 Purchase of intangible 121 Proceeds from sale of property plant and equipment 1,759 13 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 26 365,384 Interest received 12 Net cash outflow from investing activities 57,513 374,760 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issuance of equity shares 110,654 Equity issue costs 3,202 Dividends paid 27,615 Drawdown of borrowings 569,000 Repayment of borrowings 15,000 274,000 Debt issue costs 18,737 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 42,615 383,715 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 6,868 50,919 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 51,024 Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 1,673 105 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 45,829 51,024 The notes on pages 89 to 136 form an integral part of these Group consolidated financial statements.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 89 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements 1.
Summary of significant accounting Basis of consolidation and acquisition accounting policies The Group consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Ibstock plc and its subsidiaries as at Authorisation of financial statements 31December 2016.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Parent Company, The Group consolidated financial statements of Ibstock plc, which using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-Group balances, has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, for the year transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses resulting ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue in accordance from intra-Group transactions have been eliminated in full.
with a resolution of the Directors on 7 March 2017.
The balance Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group sheet was signed on behalf of the Board by W Sheppard and obtains control and cease to be consolidated from the date on KSims.
which the Group no longer retains control.
Details of all the Ibstock plc is a public company limited by shares, which is subsidiaries of the Group are given in Note 30. incorporated and domiciled in England whose shares are publicly Its subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The registered office is Leicester Road, Ibstock, Leicestershire The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has LE67 6HS and the company registration number is 09760850. rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the Basis of preparation entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from The Group consolidated financial statements of Ibstock plc for the the date that control ceases.
Therefore, the financial statements year ended 31 December 2016 have been prepared in accordance include the results of the operating companies which were with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as acquired by Figgs Topco Limited on 26 February 2015 see Note adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance 26, from that date.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for On 26 February 2015, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Figgs Topco business combinations by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is Limited acquired all of the shares of Ibstock Group Limited and measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments Glen-Gery Corporation from CRH plc.
Ibstock plc acquired Figgs issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Topco Limited and its subsidiaries in a share for share exchange Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities prior to admission to public trading and as a result replaced Figgs assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their Topco as the ultimate holding company in the Group structure, fair value at acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration this resulted in no ultimate change in control of the acquired transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired companies.
If the consideration transferred is less Under predecessor accounting, the results of Ibstock plc have than the fair value of the net assets acquired, negative goodwill been adjusted as if the entity had always been merged with Figgs arises and is recognised directly in the income statement.
Topco Limited, which was the holding company of other An estimation of the fair value is made for contingent consideration subsidiaries prior to the introduction of Ibstock plc into the Group in accordance with IFRS 3 at the time of a business combination.
structure as the ultimate holding company.
Where there is a contractual obligation to settle the liability in cash The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in based on events within the Companys control this contingent Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand consideration is accounted for as a credit to equity within other 000 except where otherwise indicated.
The significant reserves and is not subsequently adjusted.
accounting policies are set out below.
Going concern Prior year restatement The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Management has identified a misstatement related to the information affect its future development, performance and position are set presented in our 2015 Annual Report & Accounts, and has restated out in the business review on pages 26 to 27.
The financial position the comparative amounts for the prior period presented.
The of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing misstatement related to the non-recognition of a deferred taxation facilities are described in the Directors Report on 74 to 76.
In liability in respect of mineral land held by the Group due to the addition, Note 23 to the financial statements include the incorrect determination of the associated tax base.
Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its The restatement results in the recognition of an additional deferred financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to taxation liability of 8,453,000 at the date of acquisition 26 February credit risk and liquidity risk.
2015 in the comparative period and a reduction to the negative goodwill of the same amount.
In the comparative period, the taxation The Group regularly reviews market and financial forecasts, and has credit is increased by 846,000 and the deferred taxation balance has reviewed its trading prospects in its key markets.
As a result, it believes been restated to increase the liability by 7,607,00 to 63,497,000. its trading performance will demonstrate continued improvement in the Basic and diluted earnings per share are both reduced by 2.6 pence coming periods, and that liquidity will remain strong.
per share in the comparative period, although the previously reported adjusted EBITDA is unaffected by this restatement.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 90 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued from an entitys contracts with customers.
Summary of significant accounting when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus policies continued has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the The Board has reviewed the latest forecasts of the Group and good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS considered the obligations of the financing arrangements.
Given 11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The the continued strong liquidity of the Group, the Board has standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after concluded that the going concern basis of accounting of its 1January 2018 and earlier application is permitted.
The Group financial statements is appropriate.
has completed an assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 and determined that the standard will have no material impact on In addition, see the Groups Viability Statement set out on page 37. the Groups financial reporting.
IFRS 16 Leases sets out the principles for the recognition, New standards, amendments and interpretations measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both not yet adopted parties to a contract, i. e. the lessee and the lessor.
IFRS 16 The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 1 during the requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease current year.
This has had no material impact on the financial payments and a right of use asset for virtually all lease contracts.
IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019.
A company can choose to apply IFRS 16 before that date but only if it also applies IFRS 15 A number of new standards and amendments to standards and Revenue from contracts with customers.
The Group is in the interpretations are effective for periods beginning after 1 January process of assessing the impact of IFRS 16.
The Groups operating 2016, and have not been applied in preparing these Group lease commitments are disclosed in Note 28. consolidated financial statements.
None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the Group consolidated financial There are no other IFRSs, Annual improvements or IFRIC statements of the Group, except the following set out below: interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group and there are no current IFRS 9 Financial instruments, addresses the classification, plans to early adopt any of the above-mentioned standards.
measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014.
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification Segment reporting and measurement of financial instruments, including impairment Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the of financial assets and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 retains but internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three The chief operating decision-maker CODM, who is responsible primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised for allocating resources and assessing performance of the cost, fair value through other comprehensive income OCI and operating segments, has been identified as the Chief Executive fair value through profit and loss P&L.
The basis of classification Officer and Chief Finance Officer of the Group.
The CODM reviews of financial assets that are debt instruments depends on the the key profit measure, Adjusted EBITDA disaggregated by UK entitys business model and the contractual cash flow and US based on geographical location and the organisational characteristics of the financial asset.
Investments in equity structure of the Group.
instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes Foreign currency translation in fair value in OCI with no subsequent reclassification of cumulative gains and losses to profit or loss.
There is now a new a Functional and presentation currency expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39.
For financial liabilities there were Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups no changes to classification and measurement except for the entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
income, for liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by Sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests.
It requires an On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations economic relationship between the hedged item and hedging i. e. subsidiaries with a functional currency that is not Sterling instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same as the one are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the management actually use for risk management purposes.
reporting date and their results are translated at the actual rates Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different prevailing at the date of the transactions or average rates, with a to that currently prepared under IAS 39.
The standard is effective reasonable approximation and the effect of fair value adjustment for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. on the assets and liabilities are treated as part of the assets and Early adoption is permitted.
The Group is assessing the impact liabilities of a foreign operation.
The currency translation differences of IFRS9.
are recorded in the currency translation reserve within other IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers deals with comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in the currency revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful translation reserve.
information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 91 Mineral reserves may be declared for an undeveloped project b Transactions and balances before its commercial viability has been fully determined.
Evaluation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional costs may continue to be capitalised during the period between currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the declaration of reserves and approval to extract clay as further work transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
Foreign is undertaken in order to refine the development case to maximise exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such the projects returns.
transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in reviewed for impairment by management.
Mineral reserves are other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges and amortised on a usage basis.
The Group does not currently Useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet undertake such hedges.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that date and revised where expectations are significantly different from relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented previous estimates.
In such cases, the depreciation charge for in the income statement within net finance costs.
All other foreign current and future periods is adjusted accordingly.
exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the Borrowing costs carrying value may not be recoverable.
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred, except for borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or Intangible assets production of a qualifying asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use, in which case they Separately acquired brands and non-contractual customer are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Capitalisation of relationships are shown at historical cost.
Brands and customer borrowing costs commences when expenditures for the asset and relationships have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less borrowing costs are being incurred and the activities to prepare the accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the asset for its intended use are in progress.
Borrowing costs are straight-line method to allocate the cost of brands and customer capitalised up to the date when the project is completed and ready relationships over their estimated useful lives as follows: for its intended use.
Asset classification Useful life There were no borrowing costs capitalised during the period.
Brands 10 50 years Customer relationships 10 20 years Property, plant and equipment Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific Property, plant and equipment is stated at the cost to the Group software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful less depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment lives of three to five years.
For further details see Note 12.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of all other assets except assets in the course of construction and land, so as to write off the cost, less residual value, on a straight-line basis over the expected Impairment of non-financial assets useful economic life of the assets concerned, as follows: Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation such as Asset classification Useful life brands and non-contractual customer relationships and property, Land Not depreciated plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events Freehold buildings 20 50 years or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount Plant, machinery and equipment 5 40 years may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the Mineral reserves Amortised on a usage basis amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for mineral assets fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
For the deposits with economic potential and is not capitalised.
Evaluation purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or other lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash inflows projects that have been identified as having economic potential and cash-generating units.
Prior impairments of non-financial assets in obtaining permissions to extract clay.
Capitalisation of evaluation other than goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal at each expenditure within Mineral reserves commences when there is a reporting date.
high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable, i. e. the project will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 92 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 1.
Summary of significant accounting subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective policies continued interest method, less provision for impairment.
Inventories Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability present location and condition.
Raw materials, consumables and simultaneously.
The legally enforceable right must not be goods for resale are recognised on a weighted average cost basis, contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal while work in progress and finished goods are held at direct cost course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Net bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents Financial assets includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other Classification short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts if any.
In the consolidated The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: balance sheets, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification Trade payables of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category non-current liabilities.
are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed interest method.
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
These are Borrowings classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of directly comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash attributable transaction costs incurred.
All other costs are equivalents in the balance sheet Notes 15 and 16, respectively.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on amortised cost: any difference between the fair value initially the trade-date the date on which the Group commits to purchase recognised and the redemption value is recognised in the income or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value interest method.
The effective interest method takes into account through profit or loss.
Financial assets carried at fair value through estimations of future cash flows associated with the instrument.
profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction Management are required to re-assess these estimates at each costs are expensed in the income statement.
Financial assets are reporting date and where the expectations of the nature and derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the timing of cash flows change a one-off adjustment is required to investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group alter the carrying value of the instrument in accordance with has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are subsequently carried an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
No financial 12 months after the balance sheet date.
assets are held for trading other than derivatives.
Finance cost on borrowings is treated as an expense in the income Trade and other receivables statement, with the exception of interest costs incurred on the financing of major projects, which are capitalised within property, Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for plant and equipment.
merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is non-current assets.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 93 deferred until the draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no When the benefits of a defined benefit plan are changed or when evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be the plan is curtailed, the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation arising that relates to the plan amendment or drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or loss on its it relates.
Before determining the past service cost including curtailment gains or losses or a gain or loss on settlement, the net An exchange of debt instruments with substantially different terms defined benefit obligation asset is remeasured using the current is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial fair value of plan assets and current actuarial assumptions liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Similarly, a including current market interest rates and other current market substantial modification of the terms of an existing financial liability prices reflecting the benefits offered under the plan before the is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial plan amendment, curtailment or settlement.
liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited in other Employee benefits comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including At 31 December 2015, a reimbursement asset was recognised both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
representing an indemnity receivable from the former parent undertaking which was directly contributed to the pension Pension obligations scheme.
A related liability for any additional pension liabilities that A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the may arise as a result of the equalisation of pension benefits has Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group been recognised within post-employment benefit obligations has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions see Note 21.
This asset was received in January 2016. if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a defined contribution plan.
mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been Typically, defined benefit plans define an amount of pension paid.
The Group recognises contributions payable to defined benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually contribution plans in exchange for employee services in employee dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service benefit expense.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined Provisions benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined recognised for future operating losses.
by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any Where defined benefit schemes have a surplus, the surplus is one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
recognised if future economic benefits are available to the entity in the form of a reduction in the future contributions or a right to Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures refund.
See below judgement regarding the application of IFRIC14.
expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of The current service cost of the defined benefit plan, recognised in money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the the income statement in employee benefit expense, except where provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current The restoration provision is to fund future obligations at a number year, benefit changes curtailments and settlements.
of sites that the Group is associated with and where the Group has any constructive obligation to restore once it has fully utilised the Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income.
The restructuring provision covers current and former interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net employees who have ceased working on grounds of ill health and balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan is a liability payable to their normal retirement date.
Other provisions assets, taking account of any changes in the defined benefit asset relate to provisions for sites used for landfill and for onerous liability during the period as a result of contributions and benefit contracts to cover the exposure that the Group has for both current payments.
This cost is included in interest expense in the property leases where the rent being paid is significantly higher than income statement.
the current market rents and also vacant properties.
All of these provisions are discounted on an annual basis.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 94 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Summary of significant accounting Exceptional items policies continued The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense Provisions for dilapidations are recognised on a lease by lease which, because of the nature and the expected infrequency of the basis and are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow committed cash outflows.
shareholders to understand better elements of financial Off-market rental provisions relate to leases acquired as part of performance in the financial period, so as to assess better trends business combinations.
Further detail on exceptional items are given within Note 5.
Revenue The Directors believe that the adjusted EBITDA and earnings per Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable for share measures provide useful information for shareholders.
These goods and services supplied by the Group, exclusive of local sales measures are consistent with how the underlying business tax and trade discounts and after eliminating sales within the performance is measured internally and adjusted EPS is the Group.
All of revenue is attributable to the principal activities of the Groups measure for calculating distributions to shareholders.
Group being the manufacture and sale of concrete products, clay The adjustments made to profit in arriving at adjusted EBITDA facing bricks and associated special shaped and fabricated are described and reconciled below the Statement of Other clay products.
Adjusted EPS is reconciled to statutory Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of EPS measures in Note 11.
Neither measure is defined under IFRSs ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, which is usually and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported on despatch of goods.
For bill and hold sales, in which delivery by other companies.
is delayed at the buyers request but the buyer takes title and It is not intended that either adjusted measure is a substitute for, accepts billing, revenue is recognised when the buyer takes title, or superior to, statutory measurements.
provided: a it is probable that delivery will be made, b the item is on hand, identified and ready for delivery to the buyer at the time Taxation the sale is recognised, c the buyer specifically acknowledges the deferred delivery instructions and d the usual payment terms Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and apply.
Revenue is not recognised when there is simply an intention deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except for to acquire or manufacture the goods in time for delivery.
tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Customer rebates Current tax is the expected tax payable or recoverable on the Provisions for rebates to customers are based upon the terms taxable income or loss for the period, using tax rates enacted or of individual contracts, generally coterminous with the Groups substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any financial year-end, and are recorded in the same period as the adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
related sales as a deduction from revenue.
The Group estimates During the ordinary course of business, there are transactions the provision for customer rebates based on the terms of each and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination may be agreement at the time the revenue is recognised.
The calculation of the tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement.
The tax liabilities Other income are based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due and tax assets are recognised on the basis of probable future Other income is attributable to rental income from properties, recoverability.
This requires management to exercise judgement landfill and gas activity.
Other expenses represents associated based on their interpretation of tax laws and the likelihood of expenses.
This is not deemed to be a principal activity of the Group.
settlement of tax liabilities or recoverability of tax assets.
To the extent that the final outcome differs from the estimates made, tax adjustments may be required which could have a material impact Research and development on the tax charge and profit for the period in which such Research and development expenditure is written off as incurred, determination is made.
except that development expenditure incurred on an individual Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the tax project is carried forward when its future recoverability can bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts included reasonably be regarded as assured.
Any expenditure carried in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not forward is amortised in line with the expected future sales from the recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: related project.
Research and development costs capitalised are deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition not material.
of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 95 The amount of deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have Share based payments been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and employees as consideration for equity instruments for example liabilities are not subject to discounting.
options or shares of the Group.
The fair value of the employee A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is services received in exchange for the grant of the equity probable that future taxable profits will be available, against which instruments is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be the temporary difference can be utilised.
expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the instruments granted: Deferred tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and n including any market performance conditions for example, joint arrangements, except for deferred tax liabilities where the an entitys share price : timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by n excluding the impact of any service and non-market the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales reverse in the foreseeable future.
growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a Deferred tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary specified time period : and differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the n including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, temporary difference will reverse in the future and there is sufficient the requirement for employees to save or hold shares for a taxable profit available against which the temporary difference can specific period of time.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally of the number of instruments that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions and service conditions.
It recognises enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities where these have been levied by the same tax authority the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities within statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
In addition, in the Group where there is an intention to settle the balances on a some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value is estimated for net basis.
the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service commencement period and grant date.
Operating leases For the equity-settled share based payment transactions, the fair Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of value of the share instruments granted is derived from established ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating option pricing models.
Further details on share based payments leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any are set out in Note 27. incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates Share capital The preparation of the financial statements requires management Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Mandatorily redeemable to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
preference shares are classified as liabilities.
Incremental costs It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making these critical judgements and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
The Group has Dividend distribution identified the following critical accounting policies under which Dividend distributions to Ibstock shareholders are recognised in significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are made and the Groups financial statements in the period in which the where actual results may differ from these estimates under dividends are approved in general meeting, or when paid in the different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect case of an interim dividend.
financial results or the financial position reported in future periods.
Assets held for sale Estimates Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed by sale only if available for immediate sale in their present condition management on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the and a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within period in which the estimates are revised and in any future period one year from the date of classification.
Such assets and disposal affected.
The areas involving significant risk resulting in a material groups are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within value less the costs to sell.
Non-current assets classified as held the next financial year are as follows: for sale or that form part of a disposal group classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 96 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting judgements Judgements and estimates continued Judgements are made by management in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have the most significant Residual values and asset lives effect on the amounts.
Management has applied judgement in selecting the depreciation Impairment of intangible and non-current assets rates applied to depreciate property, plant and equipment, to depreciate tangible fixed assets over their useful economic lives.
Determining whether intangible and other non-current assets are impaired requires judgement and estimation.
The Group Assessment of useful lives and residual values are performed periodically reviews intangible and non-current assets, for possible annually, taking into account factors such as technological impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in innovation, maintenance programmes, market information and management considerations.
In assessing the residual values, the managements judgement, that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Such indicating events would include a remaining life of the asset, its projected disposal value and future significant planned restructuring, a major change in market market conditions are taken into account.
The carrying value of conditions or technology, expectations of future operating losses, property, plant and equipment, and a table showing the useful economic lives of these assets is disclosed in Note 13. or negative cash flows.
The Group did not record any impairment charges during the Mineral reserves period ended 31 December 2016 as managements judgement, based on a rigorous assessment, was that there were no Upon acquisition by Figgs Topco Limited on 26 February 2015, indicators of impairment.
mineral reserves were recorded at their fair value.
The determination of the mineral reserves requires significant judgements and estimates A requirement for an impairment test also arises when a nonto be applied, and these are reviewed regularly and updated.
current asset is classified as being held for sale, at which time it must be remeasured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair Factors such as the availability of geological and extraction data, value less cost to sell.
Managements assessment was to retain material performance and both the assessment of compliance with, all assets held for sale at their carrying value since this is exceeded and likelihood of extensions to, planning permissions, all impact by the fair value less costs to sell.
upon the determination of the Groups estimates of its mineral reserves.
Managements valuations are based on the expected Non-GAAP items future usage of reserves using production data, information from Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial in-house geologists and input from external consultants.
statements where management believes it is necessary to do so to Mineral reserves also have a direct impact on the assessment of provide further understanding of the financial performance of the the recoverability of asset carrying values reported in the Group Group.
Management uses Adjusted EBITDA in its assessment of consolidated financial statements.
Estimates of mineral reserves performance.
Adjusted EBITDA is the earnings before interest, are also used to calculate depreciation charges for the Groups taxation, depreciation and amortisation adjusted for exceptional mineral reserves.
The impact of changes in minerals is dealt with items.
A full reconciliation is included at the foot of the Group prospectively by amortising the remaining carrying value of the statement of comprehensive income within the financial statements.
asset over the expected future production.
See Note 13 for details of the carrying value of mineral reserves.
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the Provisions events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or shareholders to understand better elements of financial constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an performance in the period, so as to facilitate comparison with outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the future periods and to assess trends in financial performance.
amount has been reliably estimated.
Where there are a number of similar In the current year, management has made the judgement to obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is remove the profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment from determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
the category of exceptional items due to managements identified Provisions are established by the Group based on the managements programme of surplus asset disposals.
The prior year loss on assessment of relevant information and advice available at the time of disposal of property, plant and equipment was classified as an preparing the Group consolidated financial statements.
Outcomes exceptional item as it was outside of the disposal programme.
are uncertain and dependent on future events and are reviewed Exceptional items are disclosed in Note 5.
Where outcomes differ from managements expectations, prior year statutory reported results for the period ended differences from the amount initially provided will impact profit or loss 31 December 2015 to the adjusted period referred to within this in the period the outcome is determined.
Annual Report & Accounts is included in Note 3.
The Groups provisions principally relate to obligations arising from PP&E dilapidation and restorations.
Key estimates within these provisions relate to the estimation of costs and the timing of future financial outflows to settle these obligations.
Further details of specific estimates used in arriving at these provisions are provided in Note 20.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 97 Borrowing costs During the period ended 31 December 2015, the Group raised significant funds during refinancing the Groups debt.
In establishing borrowing costs, using the effective interest rate method, management is required to exercise judgement over the period in which the debt will be utilised and repaid.
Currently, management considers that debt will be held to maturity and transaction costs of raising debt are included in the effective interest rate over those periods.
The amount of transaction costs included in debt are disclosed in Note 8.
Defined benefit pension schemes The Groups accounting policy for defined benefit pension schemes requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, life expectancy and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
Management will reassess these assumptions going forward following the closure of the Scheme.
In relation to the Groups post-employment obligations in the US, management make estimations relating to employee numbers, inflation rates, discount rates and future contribution rates.
See Note 21 b for further details.
These assumptions are based on the environment in the respective country.
The assumptions used may vary from year to year, which would affect future net income and net assets.
Any differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome also affect future net income and net assets.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
These assumptions are subject to periodic review.
In accounting for defined benefit plans, management is required to make judgements in relation to the application of International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee guidance IFRIC 14 and its applicability to Ibstock plc.
This judgement concerns the Groups ability to recognise an actuarial surplus notional surplus on the UK defined benefit pension scheme, should such a surplus notional surplus arise in future.
The Group has considered the application of this guidance, including proposed amendments to IFRIC 14 published as an exposure draft in June 2015.
The Group has applied IFRIC 14 and recognised an additional liability of 14.2 million for minimum funding requirements.
The Group has applied IFRIC 14 in preparing the Group consolidated financial statements, has reassessed these assumptions following the closure of the Scheme, and is keeping the position under review in the light of developments in the proposed amendments to IFRIC 14.
Additionally management has exercised judgement in the treatment of the multi-employer US pension as a defined contribution scheme.
Note 21 describes the assumptions used together with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
Reconciliation of statutory result to adjusted result for the year ended 31 December 2015 The Group acquired the trading entities of Ibstock Building Products Limited in the UK and Glen-Gery Corporation in the US, and their respective subsidiaries on 26 February 2015, hence only 10 months of trading performance is included within the statutory results for the period ended 31 December 2015.
Due to the unusual nature of this comparative financial information within the statutory results, management has provided adjusted results for the period assuming the acquisition had arisen on 1 January 2015.
Management believes this provides shareholders with clearer information on the results of the operating entities relative performance in 2015.
A reconciliation to the statutory information for the period ended 31 December 2015 is shown in the table, below.
12 months ended 31 December 2015 restated Adjusted Revenue EBITDA Operating profit 000 000 000 1 Statutory reported result for the period from 28 November 2014 incorporation to 31 December 2015 358,331 102,299 155,195 2 Pre-acquisition costs in the period from 28 November 2014 incorporation to 31 December 2014 571 3 Operating result for the period from 1 January 2015 to 26 February 2015 54,497 4,715 1,259 4 Adjustment to operating result assuming acquisition took place on 1 January 2015 1,490 12 months trading result for the year ended 31 December 2015 412,828 107,014 155,535 UK segment 336,290 99,023 US segment 76,538 7,991 412,828 107,014 1 Includes trading performance for the 10 months post-acquisition of the operating companies on 26 February 2015.
2 Figgs Topco Limited was incorporated on 28 November 2014 as the head company in a structure put in place as the acquisition entity of the trading companies.
3 Due to the normal seasonality of our industry, the operating results in the first two months of 2015 were lower than the remainder of the year.
4 Depreciation and amortisation on the fair value uplift on acquisition for the period from 1 January 2015 to 26 February 2015, assuming the transaction took place on 1 January 2015.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 98 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segment reporting As explained in Note 1, the management team considers the reportable segments to be the UK and the US.
The key Group performance measure is Adjusted EBITDA, as detailed below, which is profit before net finance cost, tax, exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation and other non-underlying items.
Transactions between segments are carried out at arms length.
No aggregation of segments has been applied.
Year ended 31 December 2016 UK US Unallocated Total 000 000 000 000 Clay revenue 253,592 90,539 344,131 Concrete revenue 90,556 90,556 Total revenue from external customers 344,148 90,539 434,687 Adjusted EBITDA 102,954 12,751 4,072 111,633 Pension closure costs 28,678 28,678 Acquisition costs 102 102 Exceptional cost of sales 353 353 EBITDA after exceptional items 131,177 12,751 4,072 139,856 Depreciation and amortisation pre-fair value uplift 12,401 4,055 16,456 Incremental depreciation and amortisation following fair value uplift 8,717 737 9,454 Net finance costs 3,183 98 3,085 Loss profit before tax 106,876 8,057 4,072 110,861 Total assets 579,431 125,655 705,086 Total liabilities 341,650 33,979 375,629 Non-current assets Intangible assets 111,810 11,476 123,286 Property, plant and equipment 337,843 54,460 392,303 Total 449,653 65,936 515,589 The unallocated segment balance includes the fair value of share based payments and associated taxes of 2.0 million, plc Board costs 1.4 million, legal expenses associated with the listed business 0.5 million.
Unallocated costs in the prior period amounted to 0.7million and therefore the prior period segmental analysis has not been restated on the basis of materiality.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 99 All assets held for sale relate to the UK segment.
Period ended 31 December 2015 restated Negative goodwill on UK US acquisition Total 000 000 000 000 Clay revenue 216,339 70,535 286,874 Concrete revenue 71,457 71,457 Total revenue from external customers 287,796 70,535 358,331 Adjusted EBITDA 91,167 11,132 102,299 Acquisition costs: Transaction costs 9,392 9,392 Acquisition costs: Retention and compensation payments 623 363 986 IPO costs: Transaction costs 10,276 2,221 12,497 IPO costs: Compensation payments 1,263 1,263 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,389 14 1,403 Exceptional cost of sales 13,491 2,486 15,977 EBITDA after exceptional items 54,733 6,048 60,781 Depreciation and amortisation pre-fair value uplift 10,796 3,056 13,852 Incremental depreciation and amortisation following fair value uplift 7,306 166 7,472 Negative goodwill on acquisition 115,738 115,738 Net finance costs 68,188 755 68,943 Loss profit before tax 31,557 2,071 115,738 86,252 Total assets 566,236 102,405 668,641 Total liabilities 335,759 23,981 359,740 Non-current assets Intangible assets 118,127 9,676 127,803 Property, plant and equipment 299,280 47,605 346,885 Total 417,407 57,281 474,688 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 100 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Exceptional items Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2016 restated Notes 000 000 Exceptional costs of sales 353 15,977 Exceptional administrative expenses: Pension closure costs Legal and actuarial costs 731 Compensation payments 908 1,639 Acquisition costs Transaction costs 102 9,392 Retention and compensation payments 27 b 986 102 10,378 IPO costs Transaction costs 12,497 Retention and compensation payments 1,263 13,760 Total exceptional administrative expenses 1,741 24,138 Curtailment gain 30,317 Negative goodwill on acquisition 115,738 28,223 75,623 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 1,403 Exceptional finance income 522 Exceptional finance costs 39,922 Total exceptional items 28,745 34,298 2016 Included within the current year are the following exceptional items: Exceptional cost of sales Exceptional costs of sales in the current year of 353,000 represent redundancy costs associated with restructuring the Groups operations in Ravenhead.
Similar activities resulting in these costs are only expected to arise infrequently.
Pension closure costs Professional advisor fees of 731,000, together with employee compensation payments of 908,000, were incurred in the current year in relation to the closure of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme.
Due to the non-recurring nature of the closure, these costs were treated as exceptional.
A curtailment gain of 30,317,000 arose in 2016 as a result of the Groups decision to close the UK defined benefit scheme to future accrual.
Transaction costs Professional fees and other costs of 102,000 incurred in the current year have been classified as exceptional.
These costs are directly attributable to acquisition activity arising in the year and were classified as exceptional due to their non-recurring nature.
Exceptional finance income Exceptional finance income in the year resulted from gains made on foreign currency contracts around the date of the UKs EU Referendum.
Similar gains are not expected to recur.
All exceptional items were settled in cash, other than compensation costs accrued at the balance sheet date and the pension curtailment gain that is non-cash in nature based on an actuarial valuation of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme as at 31 December 2016.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 101 Tax on exceptional items Apart from the following items, exceptional items are taxable or deductible in full in the current period.
i The curtailment gain of 30,317,000 is not taxable in the current period.
A deferred tax expense of 5,850,000 has been recognised in the period.
ii Administrative expenses include additional employer pension contributions of 265,000 arising from the closure of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme.
These pension contributions are tax deductible on a paid basis and a deferred tax asset of 51,000 has therefore been recognised.
iii Administrative expenses include exceptional legal and professional fees of 102,000 which are not tax deductible.
2015 Included within the prior period are the following exceptional items: Acquisition costs Exceptional costs of sales Inventory values were uplifted to fair value at the date of the acquisition, increasing costs of sales in the post-acquisition period.
The 15,977,000 cost incurred for the utilisation of the fair value uplift adjustment on inventory was considered an exceptional costs of sales as it is a non-cash and non-recurring item.
The inventory fair value uplift has fully unwound as at 31 December 2015.
Transaction costs Professional fees and other costs of 9,392,000 were classified as exceptional in the prior period.
These costs were directly attributable to the acquisition transaction which occurred in February 2015 and were classified as exceptional due to their material nature and as they are not expected to recur.
Retention and compensation payments Other adjusting items of 986,000 in the period to December 2015 related to retention bonuses due to key staff which were committed to as part of the Groups acquisition by Bain and the settlement of B shares held by management.
IPO costs Transaction costs Costs of 12,497,000 were incurred during the process of the Groups Initial Public Offering.
This represented professional fees, management fees incurred prior to the listing and other transaction costs.
Due to the non-recurring and material nature of such costs, they were classified as exceptional in the prior period.
Compensation and retention payments Upon the successful IPO of the Group, senior management were provided with bonuses 540,000 and share options 723,000, which vested immediately under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP scheme.
Since the bonus and cost of the award are fully recognised in the period, are not expected to recur and are intrinsically linked to the IPO transaction, they were treated as exceptional in the prior period.
See Note 27 c i for further details of the award.
All other employee share schemes have been treated as recurring costs.
Negative goodwill Negative goodwill of 115,738,000 arose on the acquisition of the trading entities.
For further details of how negative goodwill was generated on the business combination, see Note 26.
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment The loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment relates to asset disposals and impairments incurred in the prior year.
All exceptional items were settled in cash, other than share based payments, negative goodwill and the cost of sales adjustment that are non-cash in nature due to being items that are either equity-settled, or items arising solely from fair value accounting in the Group accounts.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 102 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Exceptional items continued Tax on exceptional items Apart from the following items, exceptional items are taxable or deductible in full in the current period.
i Negative goodwill of 115,738,000 is non-taxable and therefore did not impact the reported tax credit for the prior period.
ii Acquisition costs of 7,039,000 and IPO transaction costs of 11,769,000 were treated as non-tax deductible and increased the current tax charge by 3,808,000. iii A deferred tax asset of 150,000 was recognised in respect of IPO-related share based payments totalling 723,000.
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment is non-tax deductible.
Exceptional finance costs detailed in Note 8 were tax deductible in full in the prior period.
Operating profit Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2016 restated Notes 000 000 Operating profit includes the effect of crediting charging : Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 2,571 8,400 Raw material and consumable used 74,661 74,820 Employee benefit expense 7 91,328 74,541 Depreciation and amortisation 13,12 25,910 21,324 Fair value unwind of inventories 5 15,977 Other production costs 74,436 34,502 Total cost of sales 268,907 229,564 Transportation expenses 36,523 29,265 Other employee benefit expenses 7 32,245 22,573 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 625 1,403 Advertising costs 2,642 1,475 Operating lease payments 6,920 5,771 Operating lease income 563 550 Exceptional administrative expenses 5 1,741 24,138 Exceptional curtailment gain 5 30,317 Negative goodwill on acquisition 5,26 115,738 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 103 Auditor remuneration During the period the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Group Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of Parent Company and Group consolidated financial statements: 60 100 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit-related assurance services 46 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 334 385 Tax compliance services 18 18 Tax advisory services 18 16 Audit related and transaction advisory services in respect of the initial public offering 1,500 Information technology services 40 Total 516 2,019 7.
Employees and directors Staff costs for the Group during the period: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Wages and salaries 97,675 75,034 Social security costs 13,228 9,612 Pensions costs-defined benefit plans 21 9,362 9,895 Pensions costs-defined contribution plans 21 1,779 1,374 Share based payments 27 1,529 1,199 123,573 97,114 The US post-employment benefits are accounted for as a defined contribution scheme and costs are included in the pension costs defined contribution category, above.
Average monthly number of people including executive Directors employed: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Sales staff 325 326 Administrative staff 217 200 Production staff 2,141 2,110 2,683 2,636 Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December Key management compensation 2016 2015 Short-term employee benefits 2,522 2,052 Post-employment benefits 169 99 Share-based payment 209 1,181 2,900 3,332 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 104 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Employees and directors continued Key management personnel has been defined as the Board of Ibstock plc, together with Directors of the Groups largest subsidiary.
Details of Directors remuneration are presented in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 73.
The aggregate remuneration for the purposes of the financial statements is 1,466,000 period ended 31 December 2015: 1,180,000.
Finance costs Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Interest costs: Interest payable on shareholder loan notes i 4,327 Interest payable on preference shares i 3,617 Interest payable on revolving credit facility old ii 797 Interest payable on revolving credit facility new ii 16 Interest payable on bank borrowings old facility iii 18,744 Interest payable on bank borrowings new facility iii 2,468 1,095 Exceptional finance charge on extinguishment of secured borrowings and loss on early settlement of revolving credit facility iii 39,922 Foreign exchange translations 127 Total interest payable on bank borrowings 2,357 60,558 Interest expense on financial liabilities at amortised cost 2,357 68,502 Net interest costs arising on the UK pension scheme 21 31 Net interest costs arising on the US pension scheme 39 417 Unwinding of discount on provisions changes in discount rate 20 1,975 491 Non-cash payable interest 2,014 939 Total finance costs 4,371 69,441 2016 Included within the current year are the following finance costs: A new bank borrowing facility was entered into in September 2015 with new lenders and first drawn in October 2015 as disclosed in Note 19.
This financial instrument is also classified as other financial liabilities and held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
During the year a credit of c. 3.2 million was included within the interest payable as a result of the lower interest rate payable.
Borrowing costs related to capital expenditure are insignificant and have not been capitalised.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 105 2015 Included within the prior period are the following Finance costs: The shareholder loan notes, preference shares, old bank borrowings and revolving credit facility, each taken out on acquisition of the trading group in February 2015, were financial instruments held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The amortised cost method is based upon expected cash flows of each instrument.
i The loan notes attracted interest of 12% per annum on the principal plus any unpaid interest.
Interest is payable on a quarterly basis.
The notes are repayable at par on maturity in February 2021 or earlier at the option of the Company.
The par value of the shareholder loan notes was 51.8 million.
In October 2015 the shareholder loan note and accrued interest were repaid, the consideration being in the form of B preference shares and deferred shares.
These newly issued shares were subsequently converted into ordinary and deferred shares as part of capital reorganisation that took place immediately prior to the IPO.
The 43,250,000 0.001 preference shares bore a 12% annual fixed yield, compounding quarterly on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December.
On any redemption of these shares, the Articles of the Company provided that all arrears and accruals if any of the dividend should be paid.
There was no fixed date of repayment: the shares could be redeemed at par at any time at the agreement of both the Company and the holder, or the shares are mandatorily redeemable at par on a triggering event, including the sale of the business.
There was no premium payable on the redemption and the preference shares carried no votes at general meetings.
In October 2015 the preference shares were converted into ordinary and deferred shares as part of a capital reorganisation that took place immediately prior to the IPO.
ii The old revolving credit facility RCF provided available funding of 40 million until it was repaid and extinguished in October 2015.
Interest was charged at an annual rate of margin plus LIBOR floored at 1% : the margin ranged from 2.75%-3.50% dependent on the prevailing earnings of the Group on a rolling 12-months basis.
Interest was payable at either one, two, three or six monthly intervals, as appropriate.
A commitment fee was payable on the undrawn element of the facility based on 35% of applicable margin.
In October 2015 the old RCF was repaid.
The revolving credit facility was repaid and extinguished earlier than previously planned in October 2015 leading to an acceleration of transaction costs and an exceptional loss on early settlement of 1.88 million.
iii The bank borrowings are a financial instrument classified as other financial liabilities and held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where the expectations of the nature and timing of cash flows change a one-off adjustment is required to adjust the carrying value of the financial instrument to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows.
The old bank borrowings attracted interest of 8% plus LIBOR floored at 1% per annum, payable six monthly.
The borrowings were repayable at par in February 2021.
A voluntary early repayment exit charge of 38.045 million was levied based on the nature and timing of the settlement.
The initial drawdown value of the borrowings was 250 million in February 2015.
On 30 June 2015 management revised the estimated lives and maturity dates for the securitised debt to October 2015 previously to March 2018 after considering plans for an expected refinancing and associated make whole premium, resulting in an exceptional finance charge.
On repayment of this debt in October 2015 this facility was extinguished.
A new bank borrowing facility was entered into in September 2015 with new lenders and first drawn in October as disclosed in Note 19.
For further details on these facilities, see Note 19.
Finance income Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Interest income: Other interest receivable 16 Fair value gain on financial instrument 522 482 Net interest income arising on the UK pension scheme Note 21 764 1,286 498 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 106 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Taxation Analysis of income tax charge Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Current tax on profits for the period 17,958 1,878 Foreign withholding tax suffered 291 Adjustments in respect of prior period 266 Total current tax 17,692 2,169 Deferred tax on profits for the period 5,584 3,205 Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 185 738 Impact of change in tax rate 3,072 5,941 Adjustments in respect of prior period 479 Total deferred tax 22 2,806 9,884 Income tax expense credit reported in the consolidated income statement 20,498 7,715 The total tax expense credit comprises: UK 18,733 7,413 US 1,765 302 20,498 7,715 Income tax recognised within the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income Year ended Period ended 31December 31December 2016 2015 000 000 Tax adjustments arising on the UK pension scheme assets and liabilities: Current tax credit 2,608 Deferred tax credit charge 11,406 734 Income tax recognised within the consolidated statement of changes in equity Year ended Period ended 31December 31December 2016 2015 000 000 Deferred tax credit charge on share based payments 48 55 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 107 The tax credit for the period differs from the applicable standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% period ended 31 December 2015: 20.25% in the year ended 31 December 2016.
The differences are explained below: Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2016 restated Percentage 000 Percentage 000 restated Profit before tax 110,861 100% 86,252 100% Profit before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK 22,172 20.00% 17,466 20.25% Effects of: Expenses not deductible 698 0.63% 1,133 1.31% US withholding tax suffered 291 0.34% Different effective tax rate on US current period earnings 652 0.59% 137 0.16% Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 185 0.17% 738 0.85% Change in estimates relating to prior period 213 0.19% Total tax charge before deferred tax rate change and exceptional items 23,550 21.24% 18,289 21.21% Other expenses not deductible exceptional items 20 0.02% 3,809 4.42% Negative goodwill arising on acquisition 23,872 27.68% Rate change on deferred tax provision 3,072 2.77% 5,941 6.89% Total taxation expense credit 20,498 18.49% 7,715 8.94% The prior period tax credit has been restated from 6,869,000 to 7,715,000.
The misstatement in the 2015 Annual Report & Accounts relates to the non-recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of mineral land held by the Group due to an incorrect determination of the related tax base.
The restatement results in the recognition of an additional deferred tax liability of 8,453,000 at the date of acquisition 26 February 2015 in the prior period and a reduction to the negative goodwill of the same amount.
In the prior period, the tax credit is increased by 846,000 and the deferred tax liability has been restated to 63,497,000 as shown in Note 22.
The tax expense for the period includes a deferred tax credit of 185,000 relating to the recognition of US state tax losses arising as a result of the US business entering into a voluntary disclosure agreement declaring, retrospectively, a taxable presence in New York State and New York City since 2013.
The tax credit for the prior period includes a deferred tax credit of 738,000 relating to the recognition of US state tax losses acquired as part of the business combination.
These tax losses were not recognised at the acquisition date due to the historic tax loss position of the US business.
The US business has reported a taxable profit for the period and is expected to remain profitable in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax benefit has been recognised accordingly.
There are no income tax consequences for the Company in respect of dividends declared prior to the date of authorisation of these financial statements and for which a liability has not been recognised.
The Group expects its effective tax rate in the future to be affected by the geographical mix of profits and the different tax rates that will apply to those profits, the use of brought-forward tax losses, the outcome of any future tax audits as well as the impact of changes in tax law.
The reduction in the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK from 20% to 19% was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015 and will apply from 1 April 2017.
The further rate reduction to 17% from 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted in Finance Act 2016 on 6 September 2016.
The impact of these tax rate changes are reflected in these financial statements accordingly.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 108 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Earnings per share The basic earnings per share figures are calculated by dividing profit for the period attributable to the parent shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
The diluted earnings per share figures allow for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the weighted average number of options outstanding during the period.
Where the average share price for the period is lower than the option price the options become anti-dilutive and are excluded from the calculation.
The number of shares used for the earnings per share calculation are as follows: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000s 000s Basic weighted average number of shares 406,025 288,236 Effect of share incentive awards and options 2,671 60 Diluted weighted average number of shares 408,696 288,296 The calculation of adjusted earnings per share is a key measurement of management that is not defined by IFRS.
The adjusted EPS measures should not be viewed in isolation, but rather treated as supplementary information.
Adjusted earnings per share figures are calculated as the Basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation and depreciation on fair value uplifted assets and non-cash interest expenses.
All adjustments are made net of the associated taxation impact at the Groups Effective Tax Rate.
Management has revised its method of calculation of Adjusted EPS in the current year to incorporate non-cash interest and the related taxation charge credit.
Additionally, the current year calculation reflects the Groups effective tax rate in assessing the impact of adjusting items, which differs from the prior year.
The prior year Adjusted EPS calculation has not been restated on the grounds of materiality.
A reconciliation of the statutory profit to that used in the adjusted earnings per share calculations is as follows: Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2016 restated Notes 000 000 Profit for the period attributable to the parent shareholders 90,363 93,967 Add back exceptional items 5 28,745 34,298 Add back tax expense credit on exceptional items 5,303 13,595 Add fair value adjustments 9,454 7,546 Less tax credit on fair value adjustments 1,744 6,007 Less net non-cash interest 1,447 Add back tax credit on non-cash interest 268 Adjusted profit for the period attributable to the parent shareholders 73,452 47,613 Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2016 restated pence pence Basic EPS on profit for the period 22.3 32.6 Diluted EPS on profit for the period 22.1 32.6 Adjusted basic EPS on profit for the period 18.1 16.5 Adjusted diluted EPS on profit for the period 18.0 16.5 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 109 12.
Intangible assets 31 December 2016 Customer contracts and relationships Brands Total Notes 000 000 000 Cost At 28 November 2014 Arising on business combination 26 87,600 45,400 133,000 Exchange movements 242 242 At 31 December 2015 87,600 45,642 133,242 Addition 121 121 Exchange movements 1,917 1,917 At 31 December 2016 87,721 47,559 135,280 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 28 November 2014 Charge for the period 4,505 934 5,439 Exchange movements At 31 December 2015 4,505 934 5,439 Charge for the period 5,440 1,115 6,555 Exchange movements At 31 December 2016 9,945 2,049 11,994 Net book amount At 31 December 2015 83,095 44,708 127,803 At 31 December 2016 77,776 45,510 123,286 Amortisation is included in administrative expenses in the income statement.
The remaining amortisation period of customers relationships is nine to 19 years.
The remaining amortisation period of brands is outlined below: At Remaining 31 December amortisation 2016 period Brands 000 Years Ibstock Brick 30,824 48.2 Forticrete 652 8.2 Supreme 2,632 13.2 Glen-Gery 11,402 48.2 45,510 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 110 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 13.
There are no assets which are used as security.
Management reviews the business performance based on segments reported in Note 4.
In the current year, detailed impairment tests have not been conducted as management believes that there is no indication of impairment of an asset.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Raw materials 21,574 18,445 Work in progress 2,785 2,639 Finished goods 64,398 61,973 88,757 83,057 The replacement cost of inventories is not considered to be materially different from the above values.
At 31 December 2016, a provision of 2,511,000 31 December 2015: 2,670,000 is held against the inventory balance.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 111 15.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Trade receivables 48,094 46,085 Provision for impairment of receivables 613 654 Net trade receivables 47,481 45,431 Prepayments and accrued income 3,538 3,266 Other receivables 1,129 926 Reimbursement asset 9,000 Total trade and other receivables 52,148 58,623 The reimbursement asset in the prior period represented an indemnity receivable from the former parent undertaking which was directly contributed to the pension scheme in January 2016.
A related liability for any additional pension liabilities that may arise as a result of the equalisation of pension benefits has been recognised within post-employment benefit obligations see Note 21.
The assessment of the valuation of this indemnity was linked to an assessment of the additional pension liabilities that may arise.
There are no material differences between the fair values and book values stated above.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 45,829 51,024 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the statement of cash flows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 45,829 51,024 Cash and cash equivalents 45,829 51,024 17.
Assets held for sale 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Assets classified as held for sale as of the beginning of the period Additions 1,203 Disposals Assets classified as held for sale as of the end of the period 1,203 As of 31 December 2016, the Asset held for sale related to the Groups property in Stourbridge, which the Group recognises as surplus to its ongoing requirements and for which the carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
The asset is within the UK Segment.
The fair value of the asset less costs to sell are assessed as above the assets carrying value and there are no liabilities directly associated with the asset categorised as held for sale.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 112 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Trade payables 42,048 35,899 Contingent consideration on acquisition 26 4,000 4,000 Other tax and social security payable 4,982 4,976 Accruals and other payables 29,190 34,361 80,220 79,236 There are no material differences between the fair values and book values stated above.
Of the amount included in accruals and other payables above is deferred income due to unwind in more than one year of nil 31 December 2015: 214,000.
Borrowings 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Current Bank borrowings i 13,044 14,097 Non-current Revolving credit facility ii Bank borrowings i 165,556 181,658 165,556 181,658 Total borrowings 178,600 195,755 A 240 million facilities agreement covering the following financial instruments were entered into as part strategic planning for the Initial Public Offering in October 2015: i New bank borrowings A five-year 200 million facility was entered into in September 2015 and first drawn in October with mandatory repayments of 15 million due on the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th anniversary dates subject to the Companys right to elect not to make one of the repayment instalments due during the term of the loan.
The borrowings attracted interest of between 1.25% and 2.50% depending on leverage ratio defined as consolidated total net debt as a proportion of consolidated EBITDA plus LIBOR or EURIBOR for any loan in Euro per annum, payable either three or six monthly at the option of the Group.
A commitment fee is payable on the undrawn element of the facility based on 35% of applicable margin.
ii New revolving credit facility New RCF A new RCF for 40 million over five years was entered into in September 2015.
The borrowings attract interest of between 1.25% and 2.50% depending on leverage ratio defined as above plus LIBOR or EURIBOR for any loan in Euro per annum, payable either one, three or six monthly at the option of the Company.
In the current year, the RCF was drawn on five occasions for amounts ranging from 2,975,000 to 7,075,000.
At 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 the full facility was undrawn.
The carrying value of financial liabilities have been assessed as materially in line with their fair values.
No security is currently provided over the Groups borrowings.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 113 20.
Provisions 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Restoration i 5,160 4,905 Dilapidations ii 8,414 8,005 Restructuring iii 142 183 Other iv 916 1,380 14,632 14,473 Current 462 1,291 Non-current 14,170 13,182 14,632 14,473 Restoration Dilapidations Restructuring Other i ii iii iv Total 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2016 4,905 8,005 183 1,380 14,473 Utilised 100 16 109 225 Credited to income statement 396 960 25 355 1,736 Unwind of discount change in rate 636 1,339 1,975 Translation adjustment 115 30 145 At 31 December 2016 5,160 8,414 142 916 14,632 i The restoration provision comprises obligations governing site remediation and improvement costs to be incurred in compliance with applicable environmental regulations together with constructive obligations stemming from established practice once the sites have been fully utilised.
The key estimates associated with calculating the provision relate to the cost per acre to perform the necessary remediation work as at the reporting date together with determining the year of retirement.
Estimates are updated annually based on the total estimated available reserves and the expected extraction rates.
Whilst a significant element of the total provision will reverse in the medium term two to ten years, the majority of the legal and constructive obligations applicable to mineral-bearing land will unwind over a 30-year timeframe.
In discounting the related obligations, expected future cash outflows have been determined with due regard to extraction status and anticipated remaining life.
ii Provisions for dilapidations, which arose as contingent liabilities upon the business combination in the prior year, are recognised on a lease by lease basis and are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely committed cash outflows, which are estimated to occur over the lease term.
iii The restructuring provision covers current and former employees who have ceased working on grounds of ill health and is a liability payable to their normal retirement date.
iv Other provisions relate to provisions for the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP, product warranties, landfill and onerous contracts.
The SERP is a defined contribution retirement plan in respect of basic salary entitlements for executive directors.
The product warranties are based on the estimate of the cost of fulfilling customer warranty claims.
The estimate is derived principally from historical data appropriately adjusted for specific risk factors.
Under the Groups standard sales terms, the Group repair or replace items that fail to perform satisfactorily for one year from the date of delivery to the customer.
It is expected that most of this expenditure will be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
The landfill provision relates to the restoration of the associated sites and environmental remediation required by legislation.
The onerous contract provision provides cover for the exposure that the Group has for both current property leases where the rent being paid is significantly higher than the current market rents and vacant properties at acquisition.
Overall these provisions are not deemed material.
Amounts arising on acquisition of the trading business include contingent liabilities to reflect present obligations that existed at the date of acquisition.
This includes certain legal claims in the UK of 1.1 million which have been included in Other.
For further details see Note 26.
The significant credits to the income statement arising in the year are as a result of the movement in Government bond rates used to discount the liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 114 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Provisions continued The Group holds insurance performance bonds with Liberty Mutual Insurance Company in respect of the Groups maintenance and remediation obligations in respect of sites from which materials are being extracted.
The bonds are typically in favour of the Department of Environmental Protection within the relevant jurisdictions.
The maximum term on the bonds outstanding at that date is September 2017.
The bonds are typically renewed on an annual basis at comparable levels.
Post-employment benefit obligations a Defined benefit plan Analysis of movements in the net obligation during the period: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Funded plan at 31 December Opening balance 331 Arising on acquisition 4,704 Charge within labour costs and operating profit 9,362 9,730 Curtailment gain 30,317 Interest income expense 764 31 Remeasurement loss gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 66,896 11,709 Pension scheme surplus restriction recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 5,877 8,037 Contributions 22,038 11,124 Carried forward at 31 December 28,685 331 The Group participates in the Ibstock Pension Scheme the Scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK.
The Scheme has four participating employers Ibstock Brick Limited, Forticrete Limited, Anderton Concrete Products Limited, Figgs Bidco Limited from 26 February 2015 and Tyrone Brick Limited up to 26 February 2015.
The Scheme is funded by payment of contributions to a separate trustee administered fund.
The scheme is a revalued earnings plan and provides benefits to its members based on their length of membership in the scheme and their average salary over that period.
Following consultation with members, accounting for the Schemes closure to future accrual occurred in the year ended 31 December 2016.
As a result, benefits were reassessed as active members were transferred to deferred membership.
The Scheme is administered by trustees who employ independent fund managers for the investment of the pension scheme assets.
These assets are kept entirely separate from those of the Group.
Total annual contributions to the Scheme are based on independent actuarial advice, and are gauged to fund future pension liabilities including projected increased in earnings and pensions in respect of service up to the balance sheet date.
The Scheme is subject to independent actuarial valuation at least every three years using the projected unit method.
The valuation used as at 31 December 2016 has been based on the results of the 30 November 2014 valuation, updated for changes in demographic assumptions, as appropriate.
Through its defined benefit pension plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks that are inherent in such plans and arrangements.
There are, however, no unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks, and no significant concentrations of risk.
The risks can be summarised as follows: n asset value volatility, with the associated impact on the assets held in connection with the funding of pension obligations and the related cash flows: n changes in bond yields, with any reduction resulting in an increase in the present value of pension obligations, mitigated by an increase in the value of plan assets: n risk of volatility in inflation rates as pension obligations are generally linked to inflation: and n life expectancy, as pension benefits are provided for the life of beneficiaries and their dependents.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 115 The Company and Trustees intend to fide-risk the Schemes investment strategy by moving towards a position that is predominantly liability matching in nature.
This involves an Asset Liability Management ALM framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the Scheme.
Within this framework the ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in risk-reducing assets such as long-term fixed interest and index-linked securities.
The Company actively monitors the investment strategy to ensure that the expected cash flows arising from the pension obligations are sufficiently met.
Balance sheet assets obligations : 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Equities 275,151 236,100 Bonds 159,933 270,767 Properties 24,221 24,285 Liability driven investment 220,535 23,787 Cash 3,731 3,947 Total market value of assets 683,571 558,886 Present value of scheme liabilities 698,033 550,518 Net scheme liability asset 14,462 8,368 Pension scheme surplus restriction 14,223 8,037 Post-employment benefit liability asset after surplus restriction 28,685 331 Other pension commitments 9,389 8,007 Post-employment benefit obligation 38,074 8,007 All equities and bonds have a quoted market price in an active market.
Properties and cash and cash equivalents are unquoted.
Liability driven investment LDI are funds constructed to reduce the risk within the Scheme.
They help to mitigate against movements in inflation or interest rates by moving in a similar way to the liabilities following market movements.
The funds are constructed from gilts and swaps.
The Schemes LDI fund is managed by BMO and is predominantly unquoted.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Current service cost 8,654 9,389 Administrative expenses 708 341 Multi-employer scheme 243 165 Curtailment gain on closure of scheme 30,317 Defined contribution scheme costs 1,536 1,209 Income charge within labour costs and operating profit 19,176 11,104 Interest income expense 764 31 Total income charge to the income statement 19,940 11,135 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 116 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued Remeasurements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Remeasurement gain loss on defined benefit scheme assets 101,960 24,569 Remeasurement loss gain from changes in financial assumptions 153,201 22,020 Remeasurement loss gain from changes in demographic assumptions 15,845 14,648 Experience adjustments 190 390 Other comprehensive income 66,896 11,709 The remeasurement losses from changes in financial assumptions incurred in 2016 are mainly the result of the fall in corporate bond yields.
This has been partially offset by positive returns during the year resulting in the gain on scheme assets.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation at beginning of period 550,518 Arising on business combination 575,041 Current service cost 8,654 9,389 Interest cost 20,467 16,015 Curtailment gain on closure of scheme 30,317 Contributions by scheme participants 69 64 Experience losses gains 190 390 Benefits paid 19,996 13,530 Remeasurement loss gain arising from change in financial assumptions 153,201 22,020 Remeasurement loss gains arising from change in demographic assumptions 15,845 14,648 Insurance premium for risk benefits 218 183 Present value of defined benefit obligations carried forward at 31 December 698,033 550,518 Analysis of movements in the asset ceiling restriction within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Asset ceiling restriction at beginning of period 8,037 Interest cost on the adjustment 309 Change in adjustment excluding interest 5,877 8,037 Asset ceiling restriction at end of period 14,223 8,037 The closure of the Scheme to future accrual has resulted in a curtailment gain of 30,317,000 resulting from revisions to the measurement of future obligations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 117 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Fair value of pension scheme assets at beginning of period 558,886 Arising on business combination 570,337 Interest income 21,540 15,984 Remeasurement gain loss on pension scheme assets 101,960 24,569 Employer contributions 22,038 11,124 Contributions by scheme participants 69 64 Benefits paid 19,996 13,530 Administrative expenses 708 341 Insurance premium for risk benefits 218 183 Fair value of pension scheme assets carried forward 683,571 558,886 Plan assets are comprised as follows: 31 December 2016 Quoted Unquoted Total 000 000 000 Percentage Equity Instruments 275,151 275,151 UK equities 73,449 73,449 11% Overseas equities 150,570 150,570 22% Emerging market equities 51,132 51,132 7% Debt Instruments 159,933 159,933 UK corporate bonds 159,933 159,933 23% Index linked gilts 0% Property Property 24,221 24,221 4% Liability driven investment 220,535 220,535 32% Cash and net current assets 3,731 3,731 1% Total 459,305 224,266 683,571 100% Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 118 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued 31 December 2015 Quoted Unquoted Total 000 000 000 Percentage Equity Instruments 236,100 236,100 UK equities 65,348 65,348 12% Overseas equities 129,521 129,521 23% Emerging market equities 41,231 41,231 7% Debt Instruments 270,767 270,767 UK corporate bonds 148,056 148,056 26% Index linked gilts 122,711 122,711 22% Property Property 24,285 24,285 4% Liability driven investment 23,787 23,787 4% Cash and net current assets 3,947 3,947 1% Total 531,152 27,734 558,886 100% The Group contributed 16.0% of pensionable salaries to the Scheme during the period reported.
Based on the most recent valuation, a payment schedule was agreed with the Trustees of the Ibstock Pension Scheme so that the Schemes deficit can be eliminated.
This included the Group contributing 16% of pensionable salaries to the Scheme in the year ended 31 December 2016 no longer required following the closure of the Scheme to future accrual, as well as a further 7.0 million per annum until May 2021.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 20 years 2015: 19 years.
In the year ended 31 December 2016, other costs related to the closure of the scheme to future accrual of 1,639,000 were incurred and classified as exceptional see Note 5.
At the 31 December 2015 balance sheet date, a reimbursement asset is recorded which was directly contributed to the Scheme.
Refer to Note 15 Trade and other receivables.
The principal assumptions used by the actuary in his calculations were: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Per annum Per annum Discount rate 2.80% 3.85% RPI inflation 3.35% 3.10% CPI inflation 2.35% 2.10% Rate of increase in salary n a 3.10% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.75% 3.60% Commutation factor 15.52 12.00 Mortality assumptions: life expectancy from age 65 For a male currently aged 65 22.70 years 22.90 years For a female currently aged 65 25.30 years 25.50 years For a male currently aged 40 25.10 years 25.30 years For a female currently aged 40 27.80 years 28.00 years The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increases to life expectancy.
The life expectancies quoted for members currently aged 40 assume that they retire at age 65 i. e. 25 years after the balance sheet date.
The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The obligations are primarily in Sterling and have a maturity of some 20 years.
If the real discount rate increased decreased by 0.25%, the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2016 would decrease increase by approximately 5%.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 119 The impact on the defined benefit obligation to changes in the financial and demographic assumptions is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 0.25% increase in discount rate 35,707 24,327 0.25% decrease in discount rate 36,442 26,091 0.25% increase in salary growth rate 16,370 0.25% decrease in salary growth rate 15,547 0.25% increase in pension growth rate 24,135 19,588 0.25% decrease in pension growth rate 22,851 16,467 0.25% increase in inflation rate 23,914 19,588 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 28,353 16,467 One year increase in life expectancy 30,984 20,130 One year decrease in life expectancy 30,744 20,159 A special contribution of 60 million was paid in the pre-acquisition period of the period ended 31 December 2015.
Refer to Note 26 for further details.
b Multi-employer scheme The Group participates in two multi-employer defined benefit pension schemes, being Aluminium, Brick and Glass Workers International Union AB&GW and National Integrated Group Pension Plan NIGPP, which are both held in the United States.
As the Group is unable to identify its share of the assets and liabilities for these schemes as insufficient information is available on which to calculate this split as confirmed with the schemes actuaries, they are accounted for on a defined contribution basis.
The charge for the year to December 2016 is 243,000.
The Group is not liable for any other contributing entities within either scheme.
For exit from the schemes by the Group at the most recent actuarial valuation, it was estimated that the withdrawal liability for the schemes equalled 18,346,000 2015: 13,981,000 and 1,836,000 2015: 1,281,000 for the AB&GW and NIGPP, respectively, although management currently do not have any plans on withdrawing from either scheme.
The minimum contribution requirements for the AB&GW scheme are based on a minimum monthly charge per active employee, with the minimum contribution requirements for the NIGPP scheme being based on a minimum charge per hour worked.
The expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period, being the year ending December 2017 is 450,000.
In respect of the AB&GW scheme, based on the total contributions made in 2016 to the multi-employer schemes, the level of participation the Group made compared to other participating entities was 83% and the Group has 70% of all members active, deferred and retired.
In respect of the NIGPP scheme, based on the proportion of the withdrawal liability against total plan liabilities, the level of participation the Group made compared to other participating entities was less than 1%.
The contribution rates agreed to be paid by the Group include an element of rehabilitation funding with respect to the total plan deficit.
For this scheme, the arrangements gives rise to a present obligation and as such a liability has been recognised of 9,389,000 2015: 8,007,000 for future committed contribution amounts as at 31 December 2016, with an associated recognised deferred tax asset of 3,727,000 2015: 3,052,000.
This has been calculated by discounting the future cash flows, which accrete at 7% per annum in line with the rehabilitation funding plan as set by the scheme Trustees, at a rate commensurate with the time value of money using a 20-year US treasury rate 2.79% given the duration of the rehabilitation funding plan runs to 2034.
This calculation is based on managements estimated number of employees in future years.
The Trustees meet annually to reassess the funding contribution increase this has been set at the 7% rate since 2012.
Based on the contribution rates and total withdrawal liability for the NIGPP plan, management have determined any present obligation arising from the plan is immaterial.
c Defined contribution plan The Group operates defined contribution schemes under the Ibstock pension scheme, the Supreme Concrete Limited pension scheme, the Anderton Concrete pension scheme and the Supreme Concrete Group Personal Plan.
Contributions by both employees and Group companies are held in externally invested, externally administered funds.
The Group contributes a specified percentage of earnings for members of the above defined contribution schemes, and thereafter has no further obligations in relation to the scheme.
The total cost charged to income in relation to the defined contribution scheme in the year was 1,536,000 period ended 31 December 2015: 1,209,000.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 120 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Deferred tax assets liabilities The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2015 2016 restated 000 000 Deferred tax liability at beginning of period 62,269 Arising on business combinations 71,226 Differences on exchange 1,824 138 Tax credited charged to the Group income statement 2,806 9,884 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 11,406 734 Tax credited charged directly to equity 48 55 Net deferred tax liability at period-end 55,445 62,269 Presented in the Consolidated balance sheet after offset as: Deferred tax assets 1,560 1,228 Deferred tax liabilities 57,005 63,497 55,445 62,269 Deferred tax asset 22,302 18,830 Deferred tax liability 77,747 81,099 Net deferred tax liability at period-end 55,445 62,269 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind within one year 3,848 3,686 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind after one year 18,454 15,144 22,302 18,830 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind within one year 2,677 4,153 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind after one year 75,070 76,946 77,747 81,099 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 121 The movement in net deferred income tax liabilities analysed by each type of temporary difference is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 As at 31 December 2016 Net balance at 1 January Recognised Recognised 2016 Differences in income Recognised directly in Deferred Deferred restated on exchange statement in OCI equity Net tax assets tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Intangible fixed asset 25,207 593 1,875 23,925 23,925 Tangible fixed assets 51,121 2,250 3,007 50,364 116 50,480 Land revaluation 1,088 222 50 1,360 1,360 Rolled over and held over capital gains 1,526 310 1,836 1,836 Employee pension liabilities, net of reimbursement asset 1,186 616 4,132 11,406 9,076 9,076 Pension contribution spreading 9,242 3,173 6,069 6,069 Provisions and other temporary differences 5,050 368 788 4,630 4,630 Share incentive plans 212 59 48 319 319 Tax losses 1,123 283 645 2,051 2,051 Other temporary differences 140 26 61 105 41 146 Deferred tax assets liabilities before offsetting 62,269 1,824 2,806 11,406 48 55,445 22,302 77,747 Offset of balances within the same tax jurisdiction 20,742 20,742 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 1,560 57,005 Period ended 31 December 2015 As at 31 December 2015 Arising on business Recognised Recognised combination Differences in income Recognised directly in Deferred Deferred restated on exchange statement in OCI equity Net tax assets tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Intangible fixed asset 28,340 3,133 25,207 25,207 Tangible fixed assets 56,723 288 5,890 51,121 151 51,272 Land revaluation 1,104 43 59 1,088 1,088 Rolled over and held over capital gains 1,786 260 1,526 1,526 Employee pension liabilities, net of reimbursement asset 1,585 82 3,423 734 1,186 3,052 1,866 Pension contribution spreading 12,061 2,819 9,242 9,242 Provisions and other timing differences 5,023 73 46 5,050 5,050 Share incentive plans 379 112 55 212 212 Tax losses 1,063 38 22 1,123 1,123 Other temporary differences 214 74 140 140 Deferred tax assets liabilities before offsetting 71,226 138 9,884 734 55 62,269 18,830 81,099 Offset of balances within the same tax jurisdiction 17,602 17,602 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 1,228 63,497 The net deferred tax liability at the prior period end has been restated from 54,662,000 to 62,269,000 due to a misstatement in the 2015 Annual Report & Accounts relating to the non-recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of mineral land held by the Group due to an incorrect determination of the related tax base.
In the prior period, the deferred tax credit is also increased by 846,000 from 9,038,000 to 9,884,000 as disclosed in Note 10.
There are no unrecognised deferred tax assets or liabilities as at 31 December 2016.
In the prior period, a deferred tax asset of 227,000 in respect of state net operating losses was not recognised.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 122 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Financial instruments risk management Financial assets Loans and receivables 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Trade and other receivables 15 48,986 55,799 Cash and cash equivalents 16 45,829 51,024 Total 94,815 106,823 Financial liabilities Loans and payables 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Trade and other payables 18 75,238 74,260 Borrowings 19 178,600 195,755 Total 253,838 270,015 All financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, credit sales and deposits with banks and is managed on a Group basis.
This risk arises from transactions with banks, such as those involving cash and cash equivalents and deposits.
To reduce the credit risk, the Group has concentrated its main activities with a Group of banks that have strong, independently verified credit ratings.
For each bank, individual risk limits are set based on its financial position, credit ratings, past experience and other factors.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
The Group has significant sales contracts with a number of blue-chip companies and accordingly the Directors believe there is a limited exposure to credit risk, but this is actively monitored at Board level.
The Groups policy on credit risk requires appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables from date of past due but not considered to be impaired is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Not past due 36,395 33,949 Less than one month past due 9,657 9,324 One to six months past due 1,376 1,997 Six to 12 months past due 53 149 More than 12 months past due 12 47,481 45,431 Other receivables are due to be received within the next 12 months.
The reimbursement asset was received in January 2016.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 123 The ageing analysis of the trade receivables from date of past due determined to be impaired is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Less than one month past due 21 6 One to six months past due 337 414 Six to 12 months past due 189 108 More than 12 months past due 66 126 613 654 Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Opening balance 654 Arising on business combination 26 495 Charged to the income statement 7 254 Utilised 2 104 Released 74 Exchange movements 42 9 Closing impairment provision 613 654 Market risk Market risk is defined as the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk, being currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
In the post-acquisition period the Groups interest rate risk arises principally from the revolving credit facility and bank borrowings which attract floating rate interest, see Note 19.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by using a floating rate debt with varying repayment terms.
The Group also does not trade in derivative financial instruments and so is not considered to be exposed to other price risk.
The exposure to currency risk is considered low.
The exposure in different currency of financial assets and liabilities is as follows: Sterling US$ Euro Total At 31 December 2016 Notes 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 16 32,926 12,799 104 45,829 Trade and other receivables 15 36,330 12,105 551 48,986 69,256 24,904 655 94,815 Financial liabilities Borrowings 19 178,600 178,600 Trade and other payables 18 62,382 9,918 2,938 75,238 240,982 9,918 2,938 253,838 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 124 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Financial instruments risk management continued Sterling US$ Euro Total At 31 December 2015 Notes 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 16 42,264 8,420 340 51,024 Trade and other receivables 15 44,926 10,360 512 55,798 87,190 18,780 852 106,822 Financial liabilities Borrowings 19 195,755 195,755 Trade and other payables 18 63,755 9,657 848 74,260 259,510 9,657 848 270,015 There are no material differences between the fair values and the book values stated above.
The Group has negligible risk to currency fluctuations as the majority of assets and liabilities are held in the same functional currency.
Liquidity risk The Group has generated sufficient cash from operations to meet its working capital requirements and finance its investing activities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by entering into committed bank borrowing facilities to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available, and monitoring cash flow forecasts to ensure the Group has adequate borrowing facilities.
The maturity of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Less than six Six months to Two to five Greater than months one year years five years Total At 31 December 2016 000 000 000 000 000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 13,044 165,556 178,600 Total 13,044 165,556 178,600 Less than six Six months to Two to five Greater than months one year years five years Total At 31 December 2015 000 000 000 000 000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 14,097 181,658 195,755 Total 14,097 181,658 195,755 At 31 December 2016, the Group had an RCF facility of 40 million over five years that was entered into in September 2015.
During the year ending 31 December 2016, the RCF was drawn on five occasions for values ranging from 2,975,000 to 7,075,000, resulting in an interest charge of 16,000 in the year.
At 31 December 2015 the full facility was undrawn.
See Note 18 for further details.
For details of the maturity of other financial liabilities, see Note 19.
The contractual non-discounted minimum future cash flows in respect of these borrowings are: Less than Two to five Greater than one year years five years Total At 31 December 2016 000 000 000 000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 18,987 180,028 199,015 Total 18,987 180,028 199,015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 125 Less than Two to five Greater than one year years five years Total At 31 December 2015 000 000 000 000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 20,622 202,629 223,251 Total 20,622 202,629 223,251 Fair value hierarchy IFRS 13 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires fair value measurements to be recognised using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in the measurements, according to the following levels: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
All of the Groups fair value measurements have been categorised as Level 2 except for contingent consideration which has been categorised as Level 3.
There were no transfers between levels during the period.
Financial instruments in Level 3 The Groups financial instruments that are categorised under Level 3 are contingent consideration and the techniques used to value are provided in Note 26.
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the period ended 31 December 2016.
Contingent consideration 000 At 1 January 2016 4,000 Gains and losses recognised in profit and loss At 31 December 2016 4,000 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital, defined as net funds, are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, or borrow additional debt.
Following the issue of the new banking facilities in September 2015 the Group must comply with two covenants each quarter from 30June 2016.
These covenants are monitored on a regular basis by the Board.
The covenants are certain ratios of interest cover and leverage, which are monitored on a regular basis by the Board.
At the period end date, management believes significant headroom exists on both covenant conditions.
New debt facilities were entered into in March 2017, as disclosed in Note 34.
Immediately prior to and following the Groups admission to the London Stock Exchange, a capital reorganisation took place.
Further details are provided in Note 24. Dividend policy The Group intends that the Company will pay an interim dividend and a final dividend in respect of each financial year in the approximate proportions of one-third and two-thirds, respectively, of the annual dividend, to be announced at the time of the announcement of the interim and final results.
Our dividend policy is based on a pay-out ratio of 40-50% of adjusted profit after taxation over a business cycle.
This adjusted profit measure is set out in Note 11 to the financial statements.
Following announcement of our dividend policy at the time of the Groups IPO in October 2015, the Directors remain confident that the policy remains appropriate.
At 31 December 2016, the parent maintains significant distributable reserves.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 126 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Called up share capital Share Share capital premium Number of shares 000 000 Issued, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 1 each 50,000 50 Total share capital on incorporation on 3 September 2015 50,000 50 Consolidation of shares followed by designation into A ordinary shares 50,000 ordinary shares of 1 each into 6,250 ordinary shares of 8 each 6,250 50 Capital reorganisation involving: i Allotment of shares as part of the share for share exchange A Ordinary shares of 8 each 9,993,750 79,950 B Ordinary shares of 8 each 80,000 640 A Preference shares of 8 each 43,250,000 346,000 B Preference shares of 8 each 7,009,738 56,078 Deferred shares of 0.01 each 648 60,334,136 482,668 Total share capital following the share for share exchange 60,340,386 482,718 ii Sub-division of Ordinary and Preference shares from 8 each into 0.01 each A Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 8,000,000,000 80,000 B Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 64,000,000 640 A Preference shares of 0.01 each 34,600,000,000 346,000 B Preference shares of 0.01 each 5,607,790,400 56,078 48,271,790,400 482,718 Deferred shares of 0.01 each 648 Total share capital following the sub-division of shares 48,271,791,048 482,718 iii Redesignation of shares into ordinary and deferred shares of 0.01 each Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 352,868,422 3,529 Deferred shares of 0.01 each 47,918,922,626 479,189 Total share capital immediately prior to IPO 48,271,791,048 482,718 Ordinary shares of 0.01 each issued in the primary offering 52,631,578 526 94,521 Total share capital following primary offering Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 405,500,000 4,055 94,521 Deferred shares of 0.01 each 47,918,922,626 479,189 Total share capital on IPO 48,324,422,626 483,244 94,521 Capital reduction 47,918,922,626 479,189 94,521 At 31 December 2015 405,500,000 4,055 Issue of Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 817,131 8 At 31 December 2016 406,317,131 4,063 Comprised of: Issued, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 406,317,131 4,063 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 127 In the current year, share capital has increased by 817,131 as a result of the issue of ordinary share capital of 0.01 each to satisfy share options granted or exercised in the year.
In the prior period, the Groups capital structure was reorganised in preparation for the IPO.
On 22 October 2015, the existing share capital structure was reorganised as set out above to consist of a single class of ordinary shares and a single class of deferred shares.
Following the capital reorganisation, 352,868,422 new ordinary shares of 0.01 each and 47,918,922,626 new deferred shares of 0.01 each were in issue.
At IPO on 27 October 2015, the Company issued 52,631,578 new ordinary shares of 0.01 each at a premium of 1.89 per share.
Share issue costs of 5.0 million were offset against the share premium of 99.5 million created on the issue of these shares.
On 16 December 2015, a capital reduction was completed in accordance with the terms of a special resolution passed on 21 October 2015 under which: i 47,918,922,626 deferred shares of 0.01 each were cancelled and extinguished, and ii the sum standing to the credit of the Companys share premium account an amount of 94.5 million was cancelled.
Following the capital reduction in the prior period, the issued share capital of the Company consists of 405,500,000 ordinary shares of 0.01 each.
Reserves Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserves Other reserves relate to contingent consideration arising on acquisition where there is no contractual obligation to settle the contingent consideration in cash based on events outside the Groups control.
There have been no changes in the Groups contingent consideration in the year.
Merger reserve The merger reserve of 369.1 million arose on the acquisition of Figgs Topco Limited by Ibstock plc in the prior period and is the difference between the share capital and share premium of Figgs Topco Limited and the nominal value of the investment and preference shares in Figgs Topco Limited acquired by the Company.
26. Business combinations On 26 February 2015, Figgs Topco Limited acquired 100% of the voting shares of Ibstock Group Limited and its subsidiaries, and Glen-Gery Corporation and its subsidiaries for consideration totalling 377,962,000.
The entities acquired specialise in the manufacture of clay and concrete building products in the UK and in the North East and Mid West regions of the US.
As disclosed in Note 1, a prior year adjustment has been made to amend the acquisition balance sheet to incorporate a deferred taxation liability of 8,453,000.
This has resulted in a restated negative goodwill arising on acquisition of 115,738,000.
All other book and fair values of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed, are now final and are unchanged.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 128 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 26. Business combinations continued Assets acquired and liabilities assumed: The final fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired operations as at the date of acquisition were: Fair value recognised on acquisition 000 Assets Customer contracts and relationships 87,600 Brands 45,400 Property, plant and equipment 349,947 Inventories 89,518 Trade and other receivables 80,408 Cash and cash equivalents 7,465 Total assets 660,338 Liabilities Trade and other payables 67,932 Derivative financial instruments 508 Current tax liabilities 408 Post-employment benefit obligations 12,242 Deferred tax liabilities 71,226 Provisions 14,322 Total liabilities 166,638 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 493,700 Negative goodwill arising on acquisition immediately recognised within the income statement 115,738 Purchase consideration transferred 377,962 The fair value of the trade and other receivables amounts to 80,408,000, which equates to a net amount of trade receivables.
The gross amount due under contracts is 80,903,000 of which 495,000 is expected to be uncollectable.
The full analysis of the deferred tax arising on business combination is set out in Note 22.
The consideration paid in association with the purchase of the Ibstock Group of companies was based on a multiple of earnings and not an assessment of the fair value of the assets of the business.
As there is considerable value associated with intangible assets that only arise in the Group consolidated financial statements, and our tangible assets reflect the current market demand for building products and production capacity, the fair value of the acquired net assets are in excess of the consideration paid, and therefore negative goodwill has arisen, which has been immediately taken to the income statement.
There are no expected taxation consequences in relation to the negative goodwill recognised.
Provisions and contingent liabilities at fair value of 7,000,000 were recognised at the acquisition date resulting from various legal claims in the UK of 1,100,000, UK property risks of 3,300,000 and an environmental claim of 2,600,000 in the US.
These fair values were provisional pending the receipt of final valuations of the potential liabilities.
As at 31 December 2015, a final external valuation of the UK property risks has been received and the fair value increased from 3,300,000 to 7,850,000, and an internal valuation exercise identified increased US property risks of 151,000.
Subsequent to the acquisition date, management has also received external legal advice that no liability in relation to the US environmental claim is required resulting in a reduction in contingent liabilities of 2,600,000.
Additionally, management identified a 2,151,000 liability in respect of employee compensation previously recognised as a post-acquisition exceptional period cost.
The related deferred taxation liability uplift of these final fair value adjustments is 210,000.
As at the reporting date, all other fair values were determined to remain as originally determined at the acquisition date.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 129 Purchase consideration 000 Initial cash consideration 312,853 Pension contribution 60,000 Contingent land proceeds 1,109 Contingent pension tax benefit 4,000 Total consideration 377,962 As part of the acquisition, the Group agreed to make a one-off contribution of 60.0 million to the Ibstock Brick Limited pension scheme on completion of the transaction.
As the transaction was conditional on the contribution being made the payment cannot be separated from the business combination and therefore, in accordance with IFRS 3 is treated as part of the acquirers consideration paid for the business.
The post-employment benefit obligation includes this 60.0 million contribution.
Additionally, in accordance with the share sale agreement SSA, half of any tax relief, over a contracted amount, received by the acquired business as a result of the one-off pension payment, shall be payable to the seller.
The fair value of the future obligation was estimated at 4,000,000, with a range being nil to 4,000,000.
As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owner of the acquired operations, half of all proceeds above a contracted amount, received by the acquired business on the sale of certain land assets in the future, shall be payable to the seller.
Sale of land assets is in the control of the Group and accordingly is recognised in equity.
Contingent consideration was recognised in relation to this, based on managements best estimate of 1,109,000 from an estimated range of nil to 3,800,000.
Transaction costs in relation to the acquisition of 9,392,000 were expensed and included within administrative expenses in the prior period.
From the date of acquisition, the acquired operations contributed 358,331,000 of revenue and 96,004,000 to profit before taxation of the Group.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the financial statement period, revenue would have been 438,435,000 and profit before taxation of the Group would have been 80,383,000.
As disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report & Accounts, we have provided information to provide the users of the accounts with a comparable view of performance for 2014 and 2015.
We have analysed below the performance of the acquired entities from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.
The information for this period has been adjusted to include the impact of the fair value exercise and new financing structure as if it had been in place since the start of the period.
The period ending 31 December 2014 has been included as comparative information, but has not been updated for the impact of the fair value exercise or financing structure following the acquisition.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 130 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 26. Business combinations continued 2015 restated 2014 000 000 Revenue 412,828 373,233 Cost of sales before exceptional items 255,035 255,333 Gross profit before exceptional items 157,793 117,900 Exceptional cost of sales 15,977 Gross profit 141,816 117,900 Distribution costs 34,108 34,601 Administrative expenses before exceptional items 44,841 37,922 Other administrative exceptional items 24,329 5,355 Net administrative expenses 69,170 43,277 Negative goodwill on acquisition 115,738 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,399 492 Other income 3,474 3,709 Other expenses 816 1,051 Operating profit 155,535 43,172 Adjusted EBITDA 107,014 64,993 Less add exceptional items 75,432 5,355 Less add profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,399 492 Less depreciation and amortisation 25,512 16,958 Operating profit 155,535 43,172 27.
Share incentive plans The Group operates a number of share based payment awards relating to the period subsequent to the Groups IPO and in the prior period also recognised share based payment charges in relation to arrangements issued upon the acquisition of the trading entities in February 2015.
During the year, 263,981 options 2015: nil over Ordinary shares of 1pence each were exercised at nil cost and no share options lapsed.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 1.76.
Share based payment charges: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Old scheme arrangements 27 a Management equity issued on acquisition 27 b 434 Long-Term Incentive Plan 27 c i 264 723 Share Option Plan 27 c ii 159 9 Save As You Earn 27 c iii 725 33 Annual & Deferred Bonus Plan 27 c iv Share Incentive Plan 27 c v 378 1,526 1,199 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 131 a Old scheme arrangements held by subsidiaries on acquisition The acquisition of the trading entities of the Group on the 26 February 2015 triggered a modification to their existing share incentive plans.
The schemes in place became cash settled on acquisition and the respective liabilities of these awards have been accounted within the fair value of net assets acquired.
b Management equity arrangements issued on acquisition Ordinary B Shares options On 26 February 2015 certain members of management were issued with 80,000 ordinary B shares in Figgs Topco Limited for a consideration of 7.55 per share.
See Note 24 for details of the share reorganisation which took place in the period.
B shareholders are entitled to a certain percentage of any proceeds received in the event of a sale of the business.
The percentage receivable is dependent on the level of return on investment made by the ultimate parent and can range from 0%-12.5%.
Holders of vested B shares are entitled to receive the proceeds as set out above: holders of unvested B shares are only entitled to ever receive the original equity cost paid by management for the shares at grant.
Provided that the holder remains in employment a proportion of the shares vest on each anniversary from grant until the fifth anniversary when all awards will have vested.
All unvested awards will automatically vest on an exit event.
2016 2015 Number of Number of awards awards At the beginning of the period Granted 80,000 Vested 80,000 At the end of the period The fair value of the awards at the date of grant has been measured using a binomial option pricing model which takes into account a number of possible outcomes and weights the likelihood of each.
Assumptions Term 1-3 years Equity price 7.55 Risk-free rate 0.56%-0.77% Volatility 400% Dividend yield 0% Fair value per share 12.97 Subscription price 7.55 These options vested in full on IPO and the total charge for the period relating to the management equity issued on acquisition is 434,000. c New employee arrangements issued on IPO Following the IPO of the Group on 27 October 2015, the Group entered into new share incentive plans: the Ibstock plc Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP, the Ibstock plc Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan the ADBP and the Ibstock plc Share Option Plan the SOP.
In addition, the Group has also established three all-employee share incentive plans, the Ibstock plc Share Incentive Plan the SIP and the Ibstock plc Sharesave Plan the SAYE.
The LTIP, ADBP and SOP are, together, the Discretionary Plans, and the Discretionary Plans, the SIP and the SAYE, together, the New Plans.
Under these arrangements, no awards have been forfeited in the year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 132 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share incentive plans continued i LTIP The Group granted LTIPs during the period for key management at the discretion of the Board and this has been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of nil-priced share options.
In the current year, 755,311 share options were granted and a charge of 264,000 was recognised.
In the prior period, as part of the IPO process, 337,665 options over shares were issued and immediately vested.
The LTIP awards contain performance conditions dependent upon the Groups earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
The full charge of 723,000 was treated as an exceptional cost in the prior period.
Please refer to the information given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 73 for details in relation to the vesting conditions in relation to the LTIP.
ii SOP Options of 360,423 2015: 848,312 shares were granted under the Share Option Plan during the year for all eligible employees at the discretion of the Board and this has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Awards under the scheme have a specified exercise price of 195.4pence 2015: 212.0pence, giving a weighted average exercise price of 207.1pence.
The SOP has an employment condition of three years and no other performance conditions.
iii SAYE In order to participate in the Sharesave Plan, an employee must enter into a linked savings contract with a bank or building society to make contributions from salary on a monthly basis over a three or five-year period.
A participant who enters into a savings agreement is granted an option to acquire Ordinary Shares under the Sharesave Plan at a specified exercise price.
The total number of awards issued under this scheme during the prior period equalled 3,760,262.
There has been no equivalent SAYE scheme in the current year.
The assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the LTIP, SOP and SAYE awards during the period are detailed below: LTIP LTIP SOP SOP SAYE Grant date 18 April 2016 4 December 2015 18 April 2016 4 December 2015 10 December 2015 Share price at grant date 1.954 2.14 1.954 2.14 2.11 Exercise price nil nil 1.954 2.12 1.52 Number of shares issued 755,311 337,665 360,423 848,312 3,760,262 Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Pricing Model Binomial Binomial Binomial Binomial Binomial % expected to vest 100% 100% 95% 95% 95% Expected share price volatility 28.10% n a 31.80% 27.38% 27.38% Expected dividend yield n a n a 3.98% 3.26% 3.26% Expected option life 3 years 3 years 6.5 years 6.5 years 3.3 years Fair value per share 1.57 2.14 0.42 0.43 0.59 Risk free rate 0.44% 0.89% 1.03% 0.89% 0.89% Awards granted 755,311 337,665 360,423 848,312 3,760,262 Awards exercised in the year 263,981 Awards outstanding at 31 December 2016 755,311 73,684 360,423 848,312 3,760,262 In assessing the expected volatility level, due to Ibstock plcs short share price history, volatility of similar listed companies have been used as a proxy.
iv ADBP The ADBP incorporates the Companys executive bonus scheme as well as a mechanism for the deferral of bonus into awards over Ordinary Shares.
The ADBP will operate in respect of the annual bonus earned for the financial period.
The Committee can determine that part of the bonus earned under the ADBP is provided as an award of deferred shares, which take the form of a nil cost option.
The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the bonus earned.
The first deferred awards over Ordinary Shares under the ADBP will be made in relation to the 2016 year-end with options to be issued in April 2017.
The main terms of these awards are a minimum deferral period of three years, during which no performance conditions will apply: and the participants employment at the end of the deferral period.
At 31 December 2016, an amount of 89,000 2015: nil had been recognised in accruals in relation to this award.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 133 v SIP On 18 December 2015, the Company announced a Share Incentive Plan SIP following the Groups IPO.
Subject to qualifying employment conditions, all employees were entitled to apply for free shares up to a value of 800 depending on their period of service.
The number of shares issued during 2016 under the SIP was 553,150.
The free shares, which have a three-year employment condition and no further vesting conditions, had a price of 2.15 at the date of the announcement.
Operating leases and commitments The Group as lessee Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due are as follows: 31 December 2016 Land and buildings Other Total 000 000 000 Within one year 3,026 4,036 7,062 Between two and five years 10,291 7,137 17,428 After five years 19,883 160 20,043 33,200 11,333 44,533 31 December 2015 Land and buildings Other Total 000 000 000 Within one year 2,553 3,744 6,297 Between two and five years 8,188 6,099 14,287 After five years 20,898 80 20,978 31,639 9,923 41,562 The Group is lessee on a number of properties in addition to plant and machinery which it uses in its operations.
The operating leases run for a variety of terms and their non-cancellable commitments are set out above.
There is no material contingent rent payable, renewal or purchase options, escalation clauses or restrictions imposed by the lease agreements.
The Group as lessor The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Within one year 464 561 Between two and five years 624 818 1,195 After five years 1,391 2,283 2,770 The Group acts as lessor on a number of properties where it leases surplus land not currently utilised by the business.
The operating leases run for a variety of terms and their future minimum lease payments receivable are set out above.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for not yet incurred at the balance sheet date, predominantly relating to assets in the course of construction, is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 000 000 Amount contracted for, which has not been provided 26,799 64,553 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 134 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Cash flows from operating activities Notes 000 000 Profit before taxation 110,861 86,252 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 19,356 15,885 Amortisation of intangible assets 12 6,555 5,439 Negative goodwill on acquisition 5 115,738 Unwind of inventory fair value 5 15,977 Finance costs 8 3,085 68,943 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 625 1,403 Other 1,054 118 Share-based payments 27 1,526 1,199 Deferred income 215 179 Curtailment gain 21 30,317 Post-employment benefits 3,676 1,556 105,496 77,743 Increase in inventory 320 8,989 Increase decrease in debtors 309 19,543 Decrease increase in creditors 101 3,123 Increase in provisions 39 147 Cash generated from operations 104,805 91,567 30.
Group subsidiaries Ibstock plc had the following subsidiaries as at 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016: Proportion of Proportion of ordinary shares ordinary shares Country of held directly by held by the Entity Principal activity incorporation the Parent Group 1 Figgs Topco Limited Holding Company UK 100% 100% 1 Figgs Midco Limited Holding Company UK 100% 100% 1 Figgs Newco Limited Holding Company UK 100% 100% 1 Ibstock Building Products Limited Holding Company UK 100% 100% 1 Figgs Bidco Limited Holding Company UK 100% 100% 1 Figgs Bidco 2 Limited Holding Company UK 100% 100% Ibstock Group Limited Holding Company UK 100% 100% Forticrete Ltd Manufacturer of concrete products UK 100% 100% 2 Home Building Supplies Ltd Sale and distribution of building materials UK 100% 100% Baldwin Industries Ltd Holding Company UK 100% 100% Anderton Concrete Products Ltd Manufacturer and supplier of precast and prestressed concrete products UK 100% 100% Oakhill Holdings Ltd Holding Company UK 100% 100% Supreme Concrete Ltd Manufacturer and supplier of precast and prestressed concrete products UK 100% 100% Gee-Co Holdings Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Holding Company Ltd Holding Company UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Ltd Brick manufacturer UK 100% 100% Ibstock Leasing Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% 3 Ibstock Management Services Ltd Dormant Jersey 100% 100%
