Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 45 The Board aims to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Board Committee Committee Committee Group business locations, both in the UK and the US, to enable Board members to gain a deeper understanding of the business.
Jamie Pike 8 8 n a 4 4 3 3 This also provides senior managers from across the Group with Jonathan Nicholls 8 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the 1 Tracey Graham 7 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 Directors at more informal occasions.
During 2016 the Board held 2 a number of meetings at the Groups business locations: Lynn Minella 7 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 Michel Plantevin 8 8 n a n a 2 3 n March Supreme Concrete Limited, Barnwell plant, Peterborough.
The Board reviewed the concrete fence post Matthias Boyer 4 Chammard 7 8 n a n a n a operation and discussed proposed developments and capital investment with members of the senior management team.
Wayne Sheppard 8 8 n a n a n a n September Glen-Gery Inc. Pennsylvania, US.
The Board Kevin Sims 8 8 n a n a n a undertook a three-day visit to the business where it visited two 1 Tracey Graham was not able to attend the March Board meeting due to a of the brick-making factories, and a retail sales outlet.
The Board longstanding prior engagement.
met staff and held meetings with senior management who gave 2 Lynn Minella was not able to attend the September Board meeting due to a a presentation on the companys operations, future development longstanding prior engagement.
3 Michel Plantevin was not able to attend the May Nomination Committee meeting due to a longstanding prior engagement.
n November Forticrete Limited, Leighton Buzzard.
The Board 4 Matthias Boyer Chammard was not able to attend the June Board meeting due reviewed the commissioning of the new roof line production to other personal commitments.
facility and also held meetings with senior members of the management team.
This table only shows those Committee meetings which each Director attended as a member of the Committee, rather than as A programme of off-site meetings has been developed for 2017, an invitee.
Where n a appears in the table the Director listed is not which will see the Board visiting the Ibstock, Forticrete and a member of that Committee.
Directors receive relevant papers in Supreme businesses in the UK and a three-day visit to Glen-Gery advance of meetings and any Director not able to attend has the in the US.
opportunity to raise any issues and provide comments to the Read more on the Boards activity in the Business 48 Board or relevant committee chairman in advance of the meeting.
See pages 48 and 49 case studies Glen-Gery and Forticrete.
Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are discussed.
Board meeting calendar and regular agenda discussion items 2016 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Review and approval of preliminary full year results n Review and approval of full year dividend n CEO commentary against business priorities n n n n CFO financial review n n n n Business unit site visits and presentations covering financial results and operational activities n n n Health and safety update n n n n Board evaluation output and recommendations n Review and approval of half year results n Interim dividend approval n Board meeting at US subsidiary in Philadelphia n Preparation for Board evaluation n Approve 2017 budget n Board briefing on the new Market Abuse Regulation n Whistleblowing report n n Review of Board activities with shareholders n Review outcome of competitive tender for the Groups auditors n Approval of capital expenditure project n
