Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 85 BASIS OF PREPARATION Preparation of financial statements The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of ICAP plc have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as issued by the IASB and the interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC and their predecessor bodies, and as endorsed by the EU and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, ICAP plc has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement, individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and presented in millions.
ICAP plc is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The significant accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are included within the notes to which they relate and are shaded in blue.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to apply judgements and the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions.
Management considers impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets arising on consolidation note 14, investment in joint ventures and associates notes 21 and 22, contingent liabilities note 16, and the presentation of exceptional items note 3 to be the areas where increased judgement is required.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based on amounts which differ from those estimates.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In November 2015, the Group announced that it had entered into a Transaction which will, when completed, involve the disposal of its global hybrid voice broking and information business, including the associated technology and broking platforms including i-Swap and Fusion, and certain joint ventures and associates together IGBB, to Tullett Prebon.
The disposal is subject to approvals from regulatory authorities across jurisdictions.
The Group is committed to a plan to sell having signed the SPA with Tullett Prebon and it is anticipated that the required regulatory approvals will be obtained and the Transaction will complete in 2016.
The IGBB business disposal meets the criteria of IFRS5 for held for sale classification.
The criteria for held for sale are met as the business is available for sale in its present condition, and the sale is highly probable.
The results of the IGBB business, subject to certain provisions in the SPA, are presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement as the sale is a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business.
The assets and liabilities attributable to IGBB, also subject to certain provisions in the SPA, are presented as held for sale assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet.
Presentation of the income statement The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income statement.
The columnar format enables the Group to continue its practice of improving the understanding of its results by presenting its trading profit.
This is the profit measure used to calculate trading EPS note 5 and is considered to be the most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups trading earnings.
Trading profit is reconciled to profit before tax on the face of the consolidated income statement, which also includes acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
The column acquisition and disposal costs includes: any gains, losses or other associated costs on the full or partial disposal of investments, associates, joint ventures or subsidiaries and costs associated with a business combination that do not constitute fees relating to the arrangement of financing: amortisation or impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation: any re-measurement after initial recognition of deferred contingent consideration which has been classified as a liability, and any gains or losses on the revaluation of previous interests.
The column may also include items such as gains or losses on the settlement of pre-existing relationships with acquired businesses and the re-measurement of liabilities that are above the value of indemnification.
Items which are of a non-recurring nature and material, when considering both size and nature, are disclosed separately to give a clearer presentation of the Groups results.
These are shown as exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement.
When the Group has disposed of or intends to dispose of a business component that represents a major line of business or geographic area of operations, it classifies such operations as discontinued.
The post tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single line on the face of the consolidated income statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
The consolidated income statement for the comparative periods is restated to show the discontinued operations separate from those generated by the continuing operations.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 86 BASIS OF PREPARATION continued Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated financial statements include the results and net assets of the Company, its subsidiaries and the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries An entity is regarded as a subsidiary if the Group has control over its strategic, operating and financial policies and intends to hold the investment on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of acquisition is measured at fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in the business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the costs of the acquisition are less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Fees associated with an acquisition are expensed as incurred.
When the Group increases its investment in an entity resulting in an associate becoming a subsidiary, the intangibles related to the acquisition are valued and the element of those not previously recognised as a share of net assets are recorded as revaluation gains realised in the year in other comprehensive income.
A change of ownership that does not result in a loss of control is classified as an equity transaction, with the difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is recorded and the fair value of the consideration received recognised directly in equity.
Where the Group has issued a put option over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the Group derecognises the non-controlling interests and instead recognises a contingent deferred consideration liability for the estimated amount likely to be paid to the non-controlling interest on exercise of those options.
The residual amount, representing the difference between any consideration paid payable and the non-controlling interests share of net assets, is recognised in equity.
Movements in the estimated liability after initial recognition are recognised within the consolidated income statement.
Where the Group has a call option over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest until it is certain that the option will be called.
At that point the accounting treatment is the same as for a put option.
The results of companies acquired during the year are included in the Groups results from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of companies disposed of during the year are included up to the effective date of disposal.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
On consolidation, the accounting policies of Group companies the Company and its subsidiaries are consistent with those applied by the Group.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group has an interest and, in the opinion of the directors, exercises joint control over its operating and financial policies.
An interest exists where an investment is held on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
Following the adoption of IFRS11 Joint Arrangements and IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures on 1 April 2014, investments in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
Under this method, such investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition change in the Groups share of net assets.
Associates The Group classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, but not control, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, as associates.
Investments in associates are recognised using the equity method.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 87 Foreign currencies In individual entities, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the prior month closing exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency.
At each end of the reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where these form part of the net investment of an overseas business or are designated as hedges of a net investment or cash flow and, therefore, the changes in value resulting from exchange differences are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are translated in the balance sheet at the exchange rate on the original transaction date.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rate ruling when the fair value was determined.
On consolidation, the results of businesses with non-pound sterling functional currencies are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rates for the year where these approximate to the rate at the date of the transactions.
Assets and liabilities of overseas businesses are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised within other comprehensive income.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition to IFRSs are taken to the consolidated income statement on disposal of the net investment.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a non-pound sterling entity are treated as assets and liabilities of that entity and translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the period closing rate.
Where applicable, the Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising before the date of transition to IFRSs as denominated in the presentational currency of the Group.
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rates for the year or at the rate prevailing at the time of the transaction where more appropriate.
Future accounting developments At 31 March 2016, the following standards have been issued by the IASB which are not effective for these consolidated financial statements: in July 2014, IASB issued IFRS9 Financial Instruments, which will replace IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
ICAP intends to adopt IFRS9 for its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2019: and in May 2014, IASB issued IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which will replace IAS18 Revenue and IAS11 Construction Contracts and other related interpretations on revenue recognition.
The standard will become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
ICAP intends to adopt IFRS15 for its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2018.
The impact on ICAP financial statements from the adoption of these IFRS standards is currently being assessed and will be disclosed closer to the time of the adoption.
