OUR OPERATIONAL STRATEGY IN ACTION In the Chief Executive Officers Review we discussedthe three key levers that would enable us to grow the business and achieve our priorities, both in 2017 and going forward: PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION GEOGRAPHIC DEVELOPMENT MAXIMISING  In this section we will highlight some examples of this work in action, to give a feel for the progress we are making, as well as new initiatives that we have undertaken.
CO MMISSION-FREE INVESTING IN OUR ISA Buy and sell exchange traded funds ETFs for fr ee until 30 April 2016.
Open your ISA at I G. com isa The value of investments can fall as well as rise and you may get back less than you initially invested.
com isa | | | INDICES SHARES FOREX COMMODITIES From 1 March until 30 April 2016, there will be no commission charged on the purchase or sale of any ISA-eligible exchange traded product ETP available in an IG ISA.
After 30 April 2016, usual commission rates will apply.
Please read the ETPs prospectus or key investor information document KIID before investing.
Tax laws are subject to change.
The online share dealing market represented a huge opportunity for us with around 1 million potential clients in the UK alone, compared with less than 100,000 for INVE ST IN ETFs COMMISSION FREE WITH OUR ISA leveraged products.
Buy and sell exchange traded funds ETFs with zer o commission until 30 April 2016.
Open your ISA at I G. com isa Ian Peacock Head of UK and Ireland IG.
com isa | | | INDICES SHARES FOREX COMMODITIES 22 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION SHARE DEALING, ISAs, SIPPs AND WEALTH MANAGEMENT In September 2014 welaunched ourexecution-only Ian again: stockbroking service in the UK and Ireland, later extendingit We now have one of the strongest offerings in the market to the Netherlands, Germany and Austria.
Thiswas ourfirst from a product and price point of view.
Early signs are that the significant diversification from leveraged trading and a key improved price positioning is a success.
part of ourstrategy to broaden ourproduct range andreach a We now have the opportunity to offer further products on the new, larger audience in the countries where wewerealready back of our improved market position, with ourISA product market leaders.
tripling its number of clients against this time last year in the The launch was a qualified success with 70% of the clients critically important March and April time period.
We have signing up for the service being new to IG and approximately alsolaunched a new SIPP offering in the UK during May this 15% of those, for whom it was appropriate, then going on to year.
And although it is early days, the initial signs are that the trade using leveraged products.
It also proved that IG was uptake is positive.
capable of marketing its products to a more mainstream, Our next step is to extend into self-directed investment potentially less active client group.
Despite these encouraging products with IG Investments due to be launchedthis year.
aspects the number of new clients and therefore the revenue Wealth management is a market that is ripefor disruption generated was lower than had been anticipated.
and we will seekto achieve this through the strength of Therefore, earlier this year Ian Peacock, Head of UK and Ireland, our technology, coupled with a low and transparent pricing and his team worked onreviewing the strategy: structure.
We havetherefore entered into a partnership with We are very clear that theonline share dealingmarket BlackRock, the largest exchange traded products ETPs represented a significant opportunity for us with around provider in the world at 36% market share.
BlackRock is onemillion users of this productin the UK alone, compared creatinga suite of model portfolios specifically for IG clients, with less than 100,000 for leveraged products.
So I knew ifwe with a range ofrisk profiles.
could get the offer right, the prize was to open up the entire Commenting on this, Ian said: IG offering to a far larger client base.
Butwe werent achieving The launch of ourportfolio-based investment productsis the volume of clients and trades that we had expected.
We the logical next extension from our share dealing, ISA and therefore conducted a fundamental review of the strategy, SIPP offerings.
Together, BlackRock and IG will have an centered onclient feedback.
investment proposition where IGprovidesthe technology, the This feedback showed that the product was very popular executionand the retail product, whileBlackRock provides the amongclients, with a platform that, thanks to IGs core asset-allocation expertise to create the right portfolios suited to technological competence, was seen asindustry leading.
However, it was only possible to understand the superiority Ian ended by saying: of the platform by using it, and our price offering wasnt I am confident our product will evolveto further strengthen IGs compelling enough to encourage people to switch from position at the forefront of innovation in the trading, investing their current provider and experience it.
As a result we were and wealth management space.
acquiring fewer clients than we had forecast.
Ian Peacock: We realised fairly quickly that, given the importance of being able to offer the broader product setto this new market, our We now have one of the strategy would bebest served by focusingonacquiring clients through a combination of both product and price leadership.
strongest offerings in the We also reviewed ourregional plan, and decidedthat, market from a product rather than introducing the product in all countries where we offer spread betting or CFDs, it would be better point of view.
Early signs to focuson the UK and Australia.
Here we are already recognised as the market leaderin leveraged products, and are that the improved price  actas a platform play to roll out ourfull product set.
Wewould then have the opportunity to positioning is a success.
offer the product in other regions once wehad achieved market leadership in leveraged products there.
We therefore re-launched the product in March of this year in theUK, under the name of share dealing, and had the initial launchin Australia in July.
23 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 OUR OPERATIONAL STRATEGY IN ACTION GEOGRAPHIC DEVELOPMENT CONTINUED ONLINE MARKETING Until relatively recently, each IG region and office had its own marketing budget that was spent locally.
This activity was driven by regional marketing departments and provided us with limited ability to determine which campaigns had been most effective.
Matthew Elliott Head of Online Operations In 2013, weestablished our unified global IG brand, acquiring the IG.
This pivotal event gave usthe framework to The need to manage consolidate ourglobal web traffic through a singleroute in order to focus on online leadership something that isincreasingly online marketing in a importantfor acquiring, educating and providing a high level of service for clients in our industry.
morestreamlined fashion, Matthew Elliott, Head of Online Operations, and histeam played to become more efficient, a key role in implementing a new approach to online marketing at IG.
He explains: was the catalyst for us to The need to manage online marketing in a more streamlined fashion, to become more efficient, was the catalyst for us to centralise spend.
At the same time we also invested in building our search engine optimisation SEO capability and pooled our paid search budgets under the oversight of a new team.
24 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The effect of every actionwe takenow needs to be measurable, to inform future spend.
The impact of  is, unfortunately, almost impossible to measure.
Ittherefore plays a very limited role in our activity.
TOP TRADERS CHOOSE THE ONLY PROVIDER WITH 40 YEARS EXPERIENCE We not only offer decades of experience, but also the resources of almost 300 in-house developers Using thiscentralised, in-house marketing team and an algorithmic who continually deliver innovation and enhancements to our CFD trading platforms.
approach enables usto deploy ourmarketing spend in the most Losses can exceed your initial investment.
We areable to react immediately to world Find out more today at IG.
sg or call 65 6390 5118 events, creating campaigns rapidly and rolling them out to every relevant region, with local adjustments if necessary.
Algorithms and tests determine the performance of different keywords and advertising creatives in each country, and then the marketing Ensure you understand the risks and costs involved with CFD and FX trading by reading the Risk Disclosure Statement at IG.
Issued by IG Asia Pte Ltd Co. Reg.
App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Google Play is a trademark of Google Inc. team can direct resources rapidly to those that have proved most effective locally.
Having a centralised team means we have also built a centre of excellence, which allows us to attract and retain great Matthew comments: talent, in turn helping us to keep improving and innovating in We spend our time constantly testing different creatives to see digital marketing.
We focus on the customers journeyto the point We have also been particularly successful in SEO and now where they sign up foran IG account.
We get the feedbackfast rankincreasingly well in the majority of ourlocal markets for the and can respond almost instantly.
key words that define the industry.
As our online capability has improved, we have had the confidence to spend more on acquiring customers, because we have a very clear idea of the timescale in which our investment pays back.
This has driven a move away from , with only 35% of IGs total marketing spend being used for this medium.
Matthew explains: The effect of every actionwe takenow needs to be measurable, to inform future spend.
It therefore plays a very limited role in our activity.
The development of ourcross-border online marketing and SEO skills has also enabled usto attract clients in regions where we may not have a physical presence.
As a result, we can now operate far more efficiently and cost-effectively across borders, through being excellent online.
This promises to bring significantcost advantages going forward.
Ensure you understand the risks and costs involved with CFD and FX trading by reading the Risk Disclosure Statement at IG.
Worlds largest retail CFD provider by revenue excluding FX.
App store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Google Play is a trademark of Google Inc. 25 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 OUR OPERATIONAL STRATEGY IN ACTION MAXIMISING THE CURRENT OPPORTUNITY CONTINUED CLIENT ONBOARDING AND BETTERCONVERSION Elaine Fahy Interim Head of Onboarding Operations During the past year, one of IGs key priorities has been to speed up the process betweena new client deciding tocreatean Our focus has been on account andfunding the account and trading.
Elaine Fahy, Interim Head of Onboarding Operations, and her removing obstacles to team havebeen instrumental in driving the project: account opening creating a Our focus has been on removing obstacles to account opening creating a better experience for clients and consequently getting better experience for clients more of them, fasterthrough the process.
The team has made great progress in the year.
For example, and consequently getting building on the proven success of ourelectronic ID eID verification processesin the UK and Australia, we have also more of them, faster through introduced solutions inGermany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium, China and Hong Kong this year.
The eID provider checks the process.
information such as name, date of birthand address to see if they match various data sets.
This delivers significantbenefits for clients as they can get through the application in real-time, greatly reducing the waiting period before they can use their account.
There is also no need for IG personnel to manually chase follow-up information and approve applications.
26 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Elaine commented: Thanks to eID verification, IG has seen a significant reduction in the time period between application and account opening for example from three days to samedayin Germany and Austria.
This makes a huge difference to the experience for our clients and increases our conversion rate.
Where the eID provider has questioned an element of the clients application, we haveintroduced restricted accounts where funds cannot be withdrawn.
This means wecan open an account with restricted conditions with the proviso that the client provides the missing piece of identification within 30days.
If the information is not forthcoming in that timescale then we deactivate the account.
Matthew Brief Where further information is needed to verify a clients identity, Head of Dealing we have facilitated this process by introducing a secure document-upload service.
Clients can photograph the required documents and upload them securely via a mobile device directly through our trading platform.
Elaine explained: NEW INITIATIVES We are critically evaluatingevery possible bottleneck in the LIMITED-RISK ACCOUNTS AND TRADING application process and seekingto remove it.
So, for example, We take very seriously our responsibility to help clients we have a new application form in the UK and Germany, where understand the risk associated with trading and to provide progress can be saved, so the client can exit and then return later them with tools to manage this.
This is important not only from and pick up where they left off.
Andonce the form is complete, we aregulatory perspective, but it also makes sound business have improved the journey to becoming an active trader by linking sense: given ourbusiness model, it is in IGs interest to develop new clients directly through to our trading platform to explore the long relationships withclients, and those who aremore markets, fund their account or upload any required documents, successful are likely to stay with us over thelong-term and depending on their preference.
This client focus has had some pleasing results with the number of In July we are introducinga new type of account focused successful applications up 49%, the number of open accounts up particularly on clients who may have lessexperience of our 42% and the number of first trades up 29%.
Elaine concluded: products, who are less wealthy or who simply wish to take The hard statisticalmeasures have been very encouraging but on less risk with each trade.
These limited-risk accounts are we have also been delighted with our progress against the softer set up so that the client knows the maximum potential loss measures of success.
Client satisfaction with the onboarding process at the outset and cannot lose more than they have on their was 10% higher in the latter two quarters of FY2016 than in the account.
This will give clients total certainty on the potential previous quarters.
downside and enable themto feel more secure and more confidentto trade.
Having a limited risk account type means that we may be able to attract additional clients who previously perceived the risk to Thanks to eID verification, IG be too high.
has seen a significant reduction In addition, for all account types we have introduced a new, fairer way of charging for guaranteed stops.
in the time period between Matthew Brief, Head of Dealing, explains: application and account We no longer charge a premium when a client adds a guaranteed stop to a position the charge only applies if the opening for example from stop is triggered.
This innovation, along with a number of reductions in our guaranteed stop premiums, means that IG three days to samedayin now offers the best value in the market for limited-risk trading on most major indices and FX pairs.
This Together, our new limited-risk trading facilities enable more makes a huge difference to the clients to enjoy peace of mind by putting an absolute cap on loss, potentially free of charge.
experience for our clients and increases our conversion rate.
27 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
