OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT More than 5,000 billion cigarettes are sold in markets around the world every year.
Our operations extend across a broad spread of these markets, providing us with a balanced geographic footprint that supports our drive to deliver sustainable shareholder returns.
The EUTPD has been significantly revised We apply stringent controls to our global OUR GEOGRAPHIC FOOTPRINT to cover the appearance, production and network of distributors and have a Our markets are clustered to generate taste of tobacco and e-cigarettes.
dedicated team of specialists who work either Growth or Returns.
with governments and law enforcement The revised Directive came into force Growth Markets have large profit and or agencies around the world to tackle in May 2014 and EU Member States had volume pools and include selected illicit trade.
until 20 May 2016 to transpose it into countries in the EU, Eastern Europe, national law.
We also invest in systems and processes Asia, the Middle East and the USA.
to improve the security of our products From that date on, all tobacco products We typically have shares below 15 per cent and share intelligence to help disrupt manufactured in the EU have had to in Growth Markets and aim to deliver both the supply of illegal cigarettes.
comply with the revised Directive, although share and profit growth.
there are provisions for the sell-through of E-VAPOUR PRODUCTS In Returns Markets, which include old stock which vary from Member State to Australia and markets in the EU, Eastern Member State.
The global market for e-vapour products Europe and Africa, we have larger positions EVPs continues to expand and there is During the year, the FDA extended its and focus on generating sustainable profit, growing consensus that these products authority to include the regulation of while actively managing our market share.
may be less risky than smoking tobacco.
e-cigarettes and cigars and other The macro-economic environment E-cigarettes are the most common EVPs tobacco products.
continues to impact consumer spending and we are represented in this category by We support reasonable, proportionate and and legitimate cigarette sales in some blu, one of the worlds leading high quality evidence-based regulation that respects territories.
Political instability in many EVP brands.
adult freedom of choice and recognises parts of the world, particularly in the that tobacco products are enjoyed by The blu brand is managed by our nonMiddle East, combined with the UKs millions of people worldwide.
tobacco subsidiary Fontem Ventures and decision to leave the EU, creates further has an established position in the USA and challenges and uncertainty.
We oppose attempts to exclude us from the UK and a growing presence in France regulatory debates and continue to raise However, the strength of our strategy has and Italy.
Between them, these four concerns about the impact of extreme enabled us to consistently develop our markets account for over 70 per cent regulation, such as plain packaging or business in difficult conditions and we of global e-vapour sales.
high excise increases, which often fuel see considerable opportunities for driving As well as building sales of blu, Fontem the growth of illicit trade.
quality growth in the years ahead.
also continues to focus on developing advanced technologies to improve the ILLICIT TRADE OF TOBACCO REGULATING TOBACCO consumer vaping experience, which is Every year around 500 billion illegal Regulation is increasing, as are the costs of important for the future growth of the cigarettes are consumed, depriving compliance particularly in the EU and EVP category.
governments of around 30 billion in taxes.
The regulation of EVPs continues to evolve.
The smuggling and counterfeiting of Regulation is largely driven by three We believe a clear regulatory framework to tobacco has considerably wider impacts: organisations: the World Health Organization govern the way these products are made children can more easily obtain cigarettes, WHO, through the Framework Convention and sold is required, and we continue to consumers are deprived of the quality they on Tobacco Control, the FCTC, the USAs engage with key stakeholders to support associate with their favourite brands and Food and Drug Administration FDA and the development of effective legislation.
the livelihoods of independent retailers the European Commission through the are threatened.
European Union Tobacco Products Directive, the EUTPD.
