RELATED UNDERTAKINGS In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates, and joint ventures, the principal activity, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned, as at 30 September 2016 are disclosed below.
With the exception of Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held directly by the Company.
SUBSIDIARIES: REGISTERED IN ENGLAND AND WALES, WHOLLY OWNED Name Principal activity Attendfriend Limited Dormant British Tobacco Company Limited Dormant Congar International UK Limited Dormant Fontem UK Limited In liquidation Imperial Brands Enterprise Finance Limited Provision of treasury services to other Group companies Imperial Brands Finance PLC Provision of treasury services to other Group companies Imperial Investments Limited Dormant Imperial Tobacco Altadis Limited Provision of finance to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco Capital Assets 1 Provision of finance to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco Capital Assets 2 Provision of finance to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco Capital Assets 3 Provision of finance to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco Capital Assets 4 Provision of finance to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco Group Limited Dormant iv Imperial Tobacco Holdings 1 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies iv Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Holdings Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Initiatives Provision of finance to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products Imperial Tobacco Lacroix Limited Provision of finance to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK Imperial Tobacco Overseas Polska Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies viii Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings 1 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings 2 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings 3 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies x Imperial Tobacco Overseas Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Pension Trustees Burlington House Limited Dormant iv Imperial Tobacco Pension Trustees Limited Dormant ITG Brands Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Joseph & Henry Wilson Limited Licencing rights for the manufacture and sale of tobacco products La Flor fide Copan UK Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Park Lane Tobacco Company Limited Dormant Rizla UK Limited Entity ceased trading iv Sinclair Collis Limited Distributor of tobacco products in England, Scotland and Wales Tabacalera fide Garcia UK Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies www.
com 126 126 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS SUBSIDIARIES: INCORPORATED OVERSEAS, WHOLLY OWNED Name Country of incorporation Principal activity 800 JR Cigar Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies ii Altadis Canarias SAU Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Canary Islands Altadis Emisiones Financieras SAU Spain Provision of finance to Altadis SA and its subsidiaries Altadis Holdings USA Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies Altadis Luxembourg SA Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies Altadis Management Services Corporation United States of America Trademark service company Altadis Mayotte SAS France, Mayotte Island Sales and distribution of tobacco products in Mayotte Island Altadis Middle East FZCO United Arab Emirates Sales and marketing of tobacco products in the Middle East Altadis Ocean Indien SAS France La Reunion Island Sales and distribution of tobacco products in la Reunion Island Altadis Retail Corporation United States of America Trademark owner Altadis S. A. U. Spain Manufacture, sales and distribution of tobacco products in Spain Altadis Shade Company LLC United States of America Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in the USA Altadis USA Inc United States of America Manufacture and sale of cigars in the USA Association pour la Recherche sur les Nicotianes ARN France Research and development Athena IP Vermogensverwaltungs GmbH Germany Davidoff cigarette trademark owner Badische Tabakmanufaktur Roth-Hndle GmbH Germany Trademark owner Cacique, SA Comrcio, Importaao e Exportaao Brazil Dormant Casa Blanca Inc United States of America Restaurant Casa fide Montecristo Inc United States of America Retail Casa fide Montecristo TN LLC United States of America Retail Casa fide Montecristo TX LLC United States of America Retail CBHC Inc United States of America Dormant Cigar Savor Enterprises LLC United States of America Manufacture of tobacco products Commonwealth Brands Inc United States of America Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in the USA Commonwealth-Altadis, Inc United States of America Sales and distribution of tobacco products in the USA Congar International Corp Delaware United States of America Manufacturing and distribution of mass market cigars Conneticut Shade Corporation United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies vii Consolidated Cigar Holdings Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies Coralma International SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies v Cuban Cigar Brands BV Netherlands Antilles Trademark owner Direct Products Inc Inactive United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies Dunkerquoise des Blends SAS France Tobacco processing East Side Cigar, Inc United States of America Production and distribution of cigars Ets L Lacroix Fils NV SA Belgium Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in Belgium i Fontem Beijing Technology Solutions Limited Peoples Republic of China Research and development Fontem Holdings 1 B. V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies Fontem Holdings 2 B. V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies Fontem Holdings 3 B. V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies Fontem Holdings 4 B. V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies Fontem Holdings B. V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies Fontem International GmbH Germany Holding investments in subsidiary companies Fontem US, Inc. United States of America Sales and marketing of tobacco products in the US Fontem Ventures B. V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies Gauloises Inc. United States of America In liquidation Huotraco International Limited Cambodia Production and marketing of tobacco products Imperial Brands Finance France SAS France Provision of finance to other Group companies ii Imperial Nominees Limited New Zealand Trustee Company Imperial Tobacco Asia Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Trading of tobacco related products i Imperial Tobacco Beijing Limited Peoples Republic of China In liquidation Imperial Tobacco Australia Holdings B. V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited Australia Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Australia Imperial Tobacco Austria Marketing Service GmbH Austria Marketing of tobacco products in Austria i Imperial Tobacco BH doo Bosnia-Herzegovina Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Bosnia Imperial Tobacco Brasil Comrcio fide Produtos Brazil Co-ordinating and monitoring of WEST license productions and fide Tabaco Ltda.
distribution of tobacco products i Imperial Tobacco Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in Bulgaria www.
com 127 RELATED UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED SUBSIDIARIES: INCORPORATED OVERSEAS, WHOLLY OWNED CONTINUED Name Country of incorporation Principal activity i Imperial Tobacco China Limited Peoples Republic of China In liquidation Imperial Tobacco CR s. r. o. Czech Republic Sales and marketing of tobacco products in the Czech Republic Imperial Tobacco Denmark ApS Denmark Distribution of tobacco products in Denmark and Greenland i Imperial Tobacco Distribution EOOD Bulgaria Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Bulgaria Imperial Tobacco Distribution Romania srl Romania Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Romania Imperial Tobacco EFKA Management GmbH Germany Manufacture of tobacco products in Germany Imperial Tobacco Espaa, S. L. U. Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Estonia O Estonia Sales of tobacco products Imperial Tobacco Finland Oy Finland Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Finland Imperial Tobacco Germany Finance GmbH Germany Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Hellas S. A. Greece Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Greece Imperial Tobacco Holdings Netherlands B. V. The Netherlands Provision of finance to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco Holdings International B. V. The Netherlands Provision of finance to other Group companies v Imperial Tobacco Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland Provision of finance to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco Italia S. r. l. Italy Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Italy Imperial Tobacco Italy S. r. l. Italy Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Japan Kabushiki Kaisha Japan Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Japan i Imperial Tobacco Kyrgyzstan LLC Kyrgyzstan Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Kyrgyzstan Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszg Dohnyforgalmzo Kft Hungary Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Hungary Imperial Tobacco Hungary Imperial Tobacco Management 1 Limited Guernsey Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Management 2 Limited Guernsey Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Management Luxembourg 3 sarl Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco Marketing Sdn Bhd Malaysia Trading of tobacco products Imperial Tobacco Mullingar Unlimited Company Ireland Manufacture of fine cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited New Zealand Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand Imperial Tobacco Norway AS Norway Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Norway Imperial Tobacco Polska Manufacturing SA Poland Manufacture of tobacco porducts in Poland Imperial Tobacco Polska S. A. Poland Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in Poland Imperial Tobacco Portugal SSPLC Portugal Advertising and support management Imperial Tobacco Sales & Marketing LLC Russia Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Russia i Imperial Tobacco SCG doo Beograd Serbia Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Serbia Imperial Tobacco Sigara five Tutunculuck Sanayi Turkey Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey five Ticaret A. S. Imperial Tobacco Slovakia a. s. Slovak Republic Sales and marketing of tobacco products in the Slovak Republic Imperial Tobacco South Africa S. A. Panama Provision of services to other Group companies Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Co Limited Taiwan Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Taiwan Imperial Tobacco Taiwan Manufacturing Company Taiwan Manufacture of tobacco products in Taiwan Limited Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis five Pazarlama A. S. Turkey Sales and marketing of tobacco products in Turkey i Imperial Tobacco Ukraine Ukraine Sales and marketing of tobacco products un Ukraine Imperial Tobacco US Holdings BV The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies i Imperial Tobacco Volga LLC Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia i Imperial Tobacco West Africa SAS Cote DIvoire Holding investments in subsidiary companies i Imperial Tobacco Yaroslavl CJSC Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia i Imperial Tobacco Zagreb doo Croatia Marketing and distribution of tobacco related products in Croatia IMPTOB South Africa Pty Limited South Africa Manufacture of tobacco products in South Africa International Marketing Promotional Services Limited Nigeria Sales and marketing and of tobacco products in Nigeria ITB Corporation Limited Bahamas Trademark owner ITG Brands Holdco LLC United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies ITG Brands, LLC United States of America Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in the USA ix ITG Holdings USA Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies ITI Cigars SL Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies ITL Pacific HK Limited Hong Kong Manufacture and sale of tobacco and tobacco related products J & R Tobacco New Jersey Corp United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products JAW-Invest Oy Finland Trademark owner John Player & Sons Limited Ireland Sales and marketing of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland John Player Ireland Pension Trustee Limited Ireland Trustee Company 128 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 128 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS SUBSIDIARIES: INCORPORATED OVERSEAS, WHOLLY OWNED Name Country of incorporation Principal activity JR Cigar DC Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products JR Cigars.
com, Inc. United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products JR Mooresville, Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products JR Tobacco NC, Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products JR Tobacco of America Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products JR Tobacco of Burlington Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products JR Tobacco of Michigan Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products JR Tobacco Outlet Inc United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products JSNM SARL France Trademark owner La Flor fide Copan SAS France Manufacture of cigars in Honduras Los Olvidados SRL Dominican Republic Manufacture and distribution of cigars Max Rohr, Inc United States of America Trademark owner MC Management, Inc. United States of America Provision of services to other Group companies Meccarillos France, SA Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies Meccarillos International, SA Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies Meccarillos Suisse, SA Luxembourg Holding investments in subsidiary companies Midtown Cigar, Inc. United States of America Sales of tobacco and tobacco related products Millennium Tobacco Ireland Provision of finance to other Group companies Newglade International Unlimited Company Ireland Provision of finance to other Group companies Phillppine Bobbin Corporation Philippines Manufacture of tobacco related products PT Reemtsma Indonesia Indonesia In liquidation Real Club fide Golf la Herrera S. A. Spain Management of golf course REEMARK Gesellschaft fr Markenkooperation mbH Germany Dormant Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH Germany Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in Germany Reemtsma Mexico SA fide CV IL Mexico In liquidation Rizla International B. V. The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies Robert Burton Associates Limited United States of America Marketing of papers in the US Santa Clara Inc United States of America Distribution of cigars Seita Participations SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies Seita Senegal Sarl Senegal Dormant Skruf Snus AB Sweden Manufacture, marketing, sales of tobacco products in Sweden i Socit Centrafricaine fide Cigarettes SA Central African Republic Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes in Central African Republic i Socit Centrafricaine fide Distribution Sarl Central African Republic Dormant i Socit du Mont Nimba Sarl Guinee Conakry Dormant Socit Nationale dExploitation Industrielle des Tabacs et France Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in France, and export of Allumettes SAS SEITA tobacco products Socit pour le Dveloppement du Tabac en Afrique SAS France Purchasing company System Designed to Africa Sarl Morocco Distribution of tobacco products Tabacalera Brands Inc United States of America Trademark owner Tabacalera Brands SLU Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies Tabacalera fide Garcia Limited Bermuda Holding investments in subsidiary companies Tabacalera fide Garcia SAS France Manufacture of cigars in the Dominican Republic Tabacalera SLU Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies Tabacalera USA Inc United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies Tahiti Tabacs SASU France, Papeete Tahiti Distribution of tobacco products in Denmark and Greenland Tobacco Products Fulfillment, Inc. United States of America Fulfilment services v Tobaccor SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies Tobana 3DVA, trgovsko podjetje, d. o. o. Slovenia Retail of products in Slovenia Tobana Grosist d. o. o. Slovenia Marketing and distribution in Slovenia v Tobana Ljubljana d. o. o. Slovenia Sales and marketing tobacco products in Slovenia Tobamark International SA France Trademark owner Urex Inversiones SA Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies vii Van Nelle Canada Limited Canada Import and distribution of tobacco and tobacco related products in Canada x Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B. V. The Netherlands Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in the Netherlands Van Nelle Tobacco International Holdings B. V. The Netherlands Sale of tobacco and tobacco related products West Park Tobacco Inc. United States of America Purchase company for USA tobaccos www.
com 129 RELATED UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED SUBSIDIARIES: INCORPORATED OVERSEAS, PARTLY OWNED CONTINUED Percentage Name Country of incorporation Principal activity owned Be To Be Pharma, S. L Spain Distribution of pharmaceuticals 70.0 i Caribbean Investment Corporation, SA Switzerland Dormant 50.0 CDM Tampa, LLC United States of America Retail 50.0 i Comercial Iberoamericana SA Spain Wholesale and distribution of tobacco products 50.0 Compagnie Agricole et Industrielle des Tabacs France Management company 99.9 Africains SAS Compagnie Agricole et Industrielle des Tabacs fide Cote DIvoire In liquidation 74.6 i Cote DIvoire SA, IL Compagnie Runionnaise des Tabacs SAS France, St Pierre La Manufacture of cigarettes 98.6 Reunion Island Compaa fide Distribucin Integral fide Spain Distribution of published materials and other products 70.0 iv Publicaciones Logista SLU Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies 70.0 iii Holdings, S. A. Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista Poland Distribution of tobacco products in Poland 70.0 Polska, sp.
Z o. o. SL Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista S. A. U. Spain Distribution of tobacco products in Spain 70.0 i Coprova SAS France Distribution of Cuban cigars in the Caribbean 50.0 i Cuba Cigar, S. L. Spain Distribution of Cuban cigars in the Canary Islands 50.0 i Cubacigar Benelux N. V. Belgium Distribution of cigars in Belgium 50.0 Cyberpoint, S. L. U. Spain Distribution of POS software 70.0 i Dalso, S. R. L. Dominican Republic Distribution of Cuban cigars in Republic Dominican 50.0 Distribrica SA Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies 70.0 Distribucin fide Publicaciones Siglo XXI, Spain Distribution of published materials and other products in Spain 56.0 Guadalajara Distribuidora fide Ediciones SADE, SAU Spain Distribution of published materials and other products in Spain 70.0 Distribuidora fide las Rias SA Spain Distribution of published materials and other products in Spain 70.0 Distribuidora del Este S. A. U. Spain Distribution of published materials and other products in Spain 70.0 Distribuidora del Noroeste SL Spain Distribution of published materials and other products in Spain 70.0 Dronas 2002, SLU Spain Industrial parcel and express delivery service 70.0 i Empor Importao e exportao, SA Portugal Distribution of tobacco products in Portugal 50.0 Gauloises Pty Limited IL South Africa In liquidation 50.0 i Habanos Nordic AB Sweden Distribution of Cuban cigars in Scandinavia 50.0 i Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine Ukraine Manufacture of tobacco products in Ukraine 99.9. i Imperial Tobacco TKS a. d Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and distribution of tobacco products 99.1 in Macedonia Imperial Tobacco TKS a. d. Dege Kosove Kosovo Manufacture, marketing and distribution of tobacco products 99.1 in Kosovo i Imprimerie Industrielle Ivoirienne SA Cote DIvoire Printing company 72.8 i Infifon APS Denmark Holding investments in subsidiary companies 50.0 i Infifon Hong Kong Limited China Distribution of Cuban cigars in China 50.0 i Infifon I, BV The Netherlands Holding investments in subsidiary companies 50.0 i Infifon II NV Netherlands Antilles Distribution of Cuban cigars in Russia 50.0 ITB Corporation y Ca.
S. R. C. Spain Trademark owner 86.7 La Mancha 2000, S. A. Sociedad Unipersonal Spain Logistics services 70.0 i Lao Tobacco Limited Laos Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes in Laos 53.0 Logesta Deutschland Gmbh, Sociedad Germany Long haul transportation in Germany 70.0 Unipersonal Logesta France SARL France Long haul transportation in France 70.0 Logesta Gestin fide Transporte SAU Spain Long haul transportation services in Spain 70.0 Logesta Italia, S. R. L. Sociedad Unipersonal Italy Long haul transportation in Italy 70.0 Logesta Lusa LDA Portugal Long haul transportation in Portugal 70.0 Logesta Maroc SA IL Morocco In liquidation 89.8 Logesta Polska Sp Zoo Poland Long haul transportation in Poland 70.0 Logista France Holding SA France Holding investments in subsidiary companies 70.0 Logista France SAS France Holding investments in subsidiary companies 70.0 Logista Italia Spa Italy Long haul transportation in Italy 70.0 Logista Pharma SA Spain Distribution of pharmaceuticals 70.0 Logista Promotion et Transport SAS France Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in France 70.0 Logista, Transportes, Transitrios e Pharma, Lda.
Portugal Industrial parcel delivery and pharmaceutical logistics in Portugal 70.0 Sociedad Unipersonal Logista-Dis SAU Spain Sale of tobacco products in Spain 70.0 130 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 130 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS SUBSIDIARIES: INCORPORATED OVERSEAS, PARTLY OWNED Percentage Name Country of incorporation Principal activity owned MABUCIG Manufacture Burkinabe fide Cigarette Burkina Faso Manufacture of cigarettes in Burkina Faso 72.7 Macotab SAS Manufacture Corse des Tabacs France, Bastia Manufacture and sales of cigarettes 99.9 Manufacture fide Cigarettes du Tchad SA Tchad Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes in Chad 95.0 Midsid Sociedade Portuguesa fide Distribuo, Portugal Wholesale of tobacco and other products 70.0 S. A. Sociedad Unipersonal i MTOA SA Senegal Manufacture and sales of cigarettes in Senegal 97.3 i NITAF Limited, IL Nigeria In liquidation 50.0 Promotora Vascongada fide Distribuciones SA Spain Distribution of published materials and other products in Biscay 70.0 and Santander Publicaciones y Libros SA Spain Publishing company 70.0 i Puro Tabaco SA Argentina Distribution of Cuban cigars in Argentina and Chile 50.0 i Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC Kyrgyzstan Manufacture and sale of tobacco products in Kyrgyzstan 98.6 i S3T Pte Ltd Singapore Holding investments in subsidiary companies 51.0 i SACIMEM SA Madagascar Manufacture of cigarettes in Madagascar 65.4 i SITAB Industries SA Cote DIvoire Manufacture of cigarettes in Cote DIvoire 80.5 SITAR Holding SAS France La Reunion Holding investments in subsidiary companies 98.6 Island i Socit Africaine dImpression Industrielle SA Senegal Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes in Senegal 99.8 Socit Allumettiere Franaise SAS France Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes 70.0 i Socit fide Distribution Sngalaise SA Senegal In liquidation 97.5 i Socit des Cigarettes Gabonaises SA Gabon In liquidation 87.8 Socit Industrielle et Agricole du Tabac Congo Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes in Congo 89.7 i Tropical SA i iii Socit Ivoirienne des Tabacs SA Cote DIvoire Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes in Ivory Coast 74.1 Socit Marocaine des Tabacs SA Morocco Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes in Morocco 99.9 i SOCTAM SA Madagascar Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes in Mali 50.5 Supergroup SAS France Wholesale of tobacco products 70.0 T2 Gran Canaria SA Spain Pharmaceutical products logistics in Canary Islands 70.0 i Top Cigars Corporation LLC Russia Distributor of Habanos in Russia 50.0 Universal Brands, S. A. Spain Trademark owner 86.7 i Xinet SA Uruguay Distribution of Cuban cigars in Uruguay 50.0 ASSOCIATES: REGISTERED IN ENGLAND AND WALES Percentage Name Principal activity owned ix C H Downton Limited Dormant 25.0 F J Dowton Limited Dormant 25.0 Hunters & Frankau Limited Dormant 25.0 Incentive Marketing Services UK Limited Dormant 25.0 ix Jacon Financial Services Limited Dormant 25.0 Joseph Samuel & Son Limited Dormant 25.0 Knight Brothers Cigar Shippers Limited Dormant 25.0 Lancha House Limited Dormant 25.0 Melbourne Hart & Company Limited Dormant 25.0 ix Melbourne Hart Holdings Limited Dormant 25.0 Morris & Morris Limited Dormant 25.0 Tabaco Torcido Traders Limited Dormant 25.0 The English Import Company Limited Dormant 25.0 Tropic Tobacco Company Limited Dormant 25.0 www.
com 131 RELATED UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED ASSOCIATES: INCORPORATED OVERSEAS Country of incorporation Percentage Name Principal activity owned i iv 5th Avenue Products Trading GmbH Germany Distribution of Cuban cigars in Germany 27.5 Avanza Libros S. L. U. Sociedad Unipersonal, IL Spain In liquidation 35.0 Azur Finances SA Cameroon Holding investments in subsidiary companies 20.0 i Caribbean Cigars Corporation NV Curacao Distribution of Cuban cigars in the Caribbean 25.0 Compaia Espaola fide Tabaco en Rama SA Spain Production and sale of raw tobacco 20.8 i Cetarsa i Diadema Spa Italy Distribution of Cuban cigars in Italy 30.0 Distribuidora fide Publicaciones del Sur, S. A. Spain Distribution of published materials and other products 35.0 Distribuidora Valenciana fide Ediciones S. A. Spain Distribution of published materials and other products in Valencia 35.0 i Entreprises des Tabacs en Guine Guine Conakry Dormant 34.0 Havana House Cuban Products Specialist New Zealand Distribution of Cuban cigars in New Zealand 25.0 i Limited i Havana House Limited Canada Distribution of Cuban cigars in Canada 25.0 Importadora y Exportadora fide Puros y Tabacos Mexico Marketing and distribution of Cuban cigars in Mexico 25.0 i SA fide CV IEPT i Intertabak AG Switzerland Distribution of Cuban cigars in Switzerland and Liechtenstein 25.0 Lippoel Tobacco Corporation International NV Netherlands Antilles Distributor of Cuban leaf 27.5 Logista Libros SL Spain Distribution of books 35.0 Manufacture Mauritanienne des Tabacs Mauritanie Manufacture and import of tobacco products 34.6 i Maori Tabacs, S. A. Andorra Distribution of Cuban cigars in Andorra 25.0 Marfany I Mas Industria Tobacco SA Mitsa Andorra Manufacture of Cuban cigars in Andorra 24.0 MARFANY MAS INDUSTRIA TABAQUERA, S. A. i New Mentality Limited British Virgin Islands Dormant 25.0 i vi Pacific Holding Thailand Company Limited Thailand Holding investments in subsidiary companies 25.0 i Phoenicia Beirut SAL Lebanon Retail in Lebanon 25.0 i Phoenicia TAA Cyprus Ltd Cyprus Distribution of Cuban cigars in the Middle East and Africa 25.0 i Pit Stop Limited British Virgin Islands Dormant 25.0 i Promotion et Distribution a Madagascar Madagascar Distribution of cigarettes in Madagascar 33.4 SITABAC S. A, Cameroon Manufacture and distribution of tobacco products in Cameroon 34.5 i Socit Internationale des Tabacs Malgaches Madagascar Leaf processing 47.9 Socit Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes du Mali Manufacture and distribution of cigarettes in Mali 28.0 i Mali SA Terzia SPA Italy Wholesale to tobacconists in Italy 47.6 i vii The Pacific Cigar Thailand Co Limited Thailand Distribution of Cuban cigars in Thailand 25.0 i The Pacific Cigar Co. Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Australia Distribution of Cuban cigars in Singapore 25.0 The Pacific Cigar Company Australia Pty Australia Distribution of Cuban cigars in Australia 25.0 i Limited i The Pacific Cigar Company Macau Limited Macau Distribution of Cuban cigars in Macau 25.0 i The Pacific Cigar Company Malaysia SDN BHD Malaysia Dormant 25.0 The Pacific Cigar Company New Zealand New Zealand Distribution of Cuban cigars in New Zealand 25.0 i Limited i The Pacific Cigar Company Limited China Distribution of Cuban cigars in Asia 25.0 i The Pacific Cigar International Co Limited Taiwan Distribution of Cuban cigars in Asia 25.0 JOINT VENTURES: INCORPORATED OVERSEAS Percentage Name Country of incorporation Principal activity owned i Altabana SL Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the 50.0 marketing and sale of Cuban cigars i Corporacin Habanos SA Cuba Export of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0 i International Cubana fide Tabaco SA Cuba Manufacture of cigarillos in Cuba 50.0 i Intertab SA Switzerland Holding investments in subsidiary companies 50.0 iv NITAF Holding BV, IL The Netherlands In liquidation 50.0 i Promotora fide Cigarros SL Spain Sales and marketing of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0 i West Tobacco Pte Ltd Singapore Dormant 50.0 Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista S. A. U. Spain Services and distribution 35.0 y GTECH Global Lottery, S. L. U. U. T. E. 132 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 132 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PARTNERSHIPS The Group also owns the following partnerships: Name Country Principal activity Fabrica fide Tabacos La Flor fide Copan S fide R. L. fide CV Honduras Holding investments in subsidiary companies Principal place of business: Apartado Postal 209, Colonia Mejia-Garca, Santa Rosa fide Copn, Honduras Imperial Tobacco Efka GmbH & Co. KG Germany Manufacture of tubs in Germany Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany i Imperial Tobacco Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan Marketing and distribution of tobacco products in Kazakhstan Principal place of business: 3rd Floor, Prime Business Park, 100 2 Furmanov Str, Medeuskiy District, Almaty, 050000, Kazakhstan ITG Brands Holdpartner LP United States of America Marketing and sale of tobacco products in United States of America Principal place of business: 714 Green Valley Road, Greensboro, NC27408, United States of America The subsidiaries listed were held throughout the year and the consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings identified.
All dormant UK entities have taken the exemption available to not have an audit of their financial statements.
Unless otherwise stated the entities are unlisted, have 1 type of ordinary share capital and a reporting period ending on 30 September each year.
i December year end ii March year end iii Listed entity iv Holding of one type of ordinary share only where more than one type of share is authorised in issue.
Only applicable to partly owned entities percentage ownership is shown in the tables above.
v Holding of two types of ordinary share where more than one type of ordinary share is authorised in issue.
Only applicable to 100% owned subsidiaries.
vi Holding of preference shares only vii Holding of ordinary and preference shares viii Holding of ordinary and redeemable shares ix Holding of ordinary and deferred shares x Holding of two types of ordinary share and redeemable shares The percentage of issued share capital held by the immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same except for Imperial Tobacco Italia Srl where the entire share capital, and therefore 100 per cent of the voting rights, are held by a number of Group companies, and Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista SAU, Logista France SAS, and Logista Italia SpA are 100 per cent owned subsidiaries of Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista Holdings SA, which is itself 70 per cent owned by Altadis SAU.
