FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC CONTINUED OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 REVENUE 2016 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of theaudit: Full audit 65% Audit of specified balances and transactions 9% the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Analytical procedures 26% has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 2016 if, in our opinion: Full audit 66% we have not received all the information and explanations we Audit of specified balances and transactions 12% require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Analytical procedures 22% company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that theCorporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate aggregated financial information of the remaining components Governance Code.
not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a designate visits each of the locations in the Group audit scope at least once every two years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In the course of the 2016 audit, visits were undertaken to the principal shared service centres in the UK, USA and Singapore as well as visits to the Brazilian and UScomponent Penton teams.
In years when we do not visit asignificant component, we include the component audit team inour team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
116 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
