STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION IN THE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable weare required to report to you if, in our opinion, information assurance that the financial statements are free from material inthe annual report is: misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate materially inconsistent with the information in the audited to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and financial statements: or have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
course of performing our audit: or In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information otherwise misleading.
in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is In particular, we are required to consider whether we have apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters forour report.
that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
WILLIAM TOUCHE SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP We confirm that we have not identified any material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor inconsistencies or misleading statements.
London, UK RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS 5 March 2017 AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
