STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company CHANGE OF CONTROL There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the There are no significant agreements to which the Company Company except that: isaparty that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid nor any agreements between the Directors may from time to time refuse to register a transfer theCompany and its Directors or Colleagues providing for of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided it meets compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs the requirements given under the Articles: because of a takeover bid except for the Groups private transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using placement loan notes and facilities described in Note 6 CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of totheConsolidated Financial Statements.
anuncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST: COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT legal and regulatory restrictions may be put in place from time Informa has a continuous and proactive programme of internal to time, for example insider trading laws: communications and colleague engagement activities, designed in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA the Directors to encourage and foster a creative and discursive working and certain colleagues of the Company require approval to deal environment throughout the Group.
in the Companys shares: Further details can be found in Our Talented People on where a Shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the page34.
Colleagues are kept informed on Group and Divisional Companys certificated shares has been served with a developments by various digital, physical and in-person channels, disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with including emails, newsletters and brochures, Intranet videos, information concerning interests in those shares: or articles and documentation, conference calls and webinars, the Directors may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, andmeetings and Town Halls.
for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of Shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any Colleagues are provided with regular updates on the Companys uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from CREST.
performance and the Group Chief Executive holds an online Town Hall to coincide with half year and full year results, as well There are no agreements between holders of Ordinary Shares as at other times, where colleagues can ask questions directly.
that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Group actively seeks feedback from colleagues on their experience of working within the Company, which in 2016 Shares held on trust included the first Group-wide discussion since the start of Shares are from time to time held by a Trustee in order to satisfy theGrowth Acceleration Plan, Inside Informa.
Action plans to entitlements of colleagues to shares under the Groups share address areas of improvement are being developed in 2017. schemes.
Usually the shares held on trust are no more than sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Groups share The Group was accredited a UK Top Employer for 2016 by the schemes for one year.
The shares held by these trusts do not Top Employers Institute.
have any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES While these shares are held on trust their rights are not Informa aims to attract and retain a diverse range of talent.
exercisable directly by the relevant colleagues.
The current Having a breadth of skills and experiences is both an essential arrangements concerning these trusts and their shareholdings business need and, the Group believes, the only way tooperate.
Purchase of own shares At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a Shareholders resolution passed on 19 May 2016, to purchase through the market up to 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary Shares.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM of theCompany to be held on 26 May 2017.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
