FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 2016 2015 Notes m m Operating activities Cash generated by operations 35 415.2 392.0 Income taxes paid 43.3 30.7 Interest paid 35.6 27.4 Net cash inflow from operating activities 336.3 333.9 Investing activities Interest received 0.6 0.7 Purchase of property and equipment 21 4.6 7.2 Proceeds on disposal of property and equipment 0.6 0.4 Purchase of intangible software assets 17 36.5 23.2 Product development costs additions 17 11.5 3.5 Purchase of intangibles related to titles, brands and customer relationships 54.5 92.5 Proceeds on disposal of other intangible assets 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries and operations, net of cash acquired 18 1,294.2 68.8 Cash outflow inflow on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 20 4.1 12.8 Disposal of other intangible assets 1.6 Purchase of investment 0.7 Net cash outflow from investing activities 1,402.6 181.9 Financing activities Dividends paid to shareholders 14 131.9 126.0 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 2.6 0.5 Proceeds from settlement of acquisition-related derivative forward contract 58.9 Repayment of loans 1,455.9 928.9 New loan advances 1,888.9 812.0 Repayment of private placement borrowings 73.3 New private placement borrowings 166.5 Borrowing fees paid 35 2.1 1.1 Cash inflow outflow on issue of other loans 35 0.2 0.3 Rights Issue net proceeds 701.5 Cash outflow from the purchase of share capital 1.0 0.4 Net cash inflow outflow from financing activities 1,056.0 152.0 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 10.3 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 18.2 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 24 32.3 35.3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 24 40.2 32.3 122 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 2016 2015 Notes m m Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year 35 10.3 Cash flows from draw-down repayment of borrowings 35 431.1 25.1 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 441.4 25.1 Other non-cash movements including foreign exchange 35 148.7 44.2 Movement in net debt in the year 590.1 19.1 Net debt at beginning of the year 35 895.3 876.2 Net debt at end of the year 35 1,485.4 895.3 123 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Informa PLC the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is a public company limited by shares and is registered in England and Wales with registration number 08860726.
The address of the registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report.
The Consolidated Financial Statements as at 31 December 2016 and for the year then ended comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries and its interests in joint ventures and associate together referred to as the Group.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP, the functional currency of the Parent Company, Informa PLC.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 2.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The Directors have, at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company andthe Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adoptthe going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in theStrategic Review.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and hedged items which are measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below, all of which have been consistently applied to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity, has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold areincluded in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of acquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity and consist ofthe amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity since that date.
Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the Group has the rights to the net assets through joint control with a third party.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
An associate is an undertaking over which the Group exercises significant influence, usually from 20%50% of the equity voting rights, in respect of the financial and operating policy.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures and associate using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture or associate is initially measured at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures or associate since the acquisition date.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the entity.
The statement of comprehensive income includes the Groups share of any other comprehensive income recognised by the joint venture or associate.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
Where an associate or joint venture has net liabilities, full provision is made for the Groups share of liabilities where there is a constructive or legal obligation to provide additional funding to the associate or joint venture.
Joint operations arise where there is a joint arrangement in which the Group is one of the parties that has joint control of the arrangement and has rights to the assets, and obligation for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
This typically arises when the joint arrangement is not structured through a separate legal entity.
For the Groups interest in a joint operation, it accounts for its share of the joint operations assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
124 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are included in net operating expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The balance sheet of foreign subsidiaries is translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
The income statement results are translated at an average exchange rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate are taken directly to the translation reserve.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
The translation movement on matched long-term foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedging instruments under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, are also taken directly to the translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the acquisition closing rate.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries and other asset purchases that are assessed as meeting the definition of a business under the rules of IFRS 3 Business Combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
If the accounting for business combinations involves provisional amounts, which are then finalised in a subsequent reporting period during the 12-month measurement period as permitted under IFRS 3, restatement of these provisional amounts may be required in the subsequent reporting period.
Acquisition and integration costs incurred are expensed and included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be re-measured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
REVENUE Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes, and provisions for returns andcancellations.
Subscription income for online services, information and journals is deferred and recognised evenly over the term of the subscription.
Revenue from exhibitions, tradeshows, conferences and learning events, together with attendee fees and event sponsorship, isrecognised when the event is held, with advance receipts recognised as deferred income in the balance sheet.
Unit sales revenue is recognised on the sale of books and related publications when title passes, depending on the terms of the sales agreement.
Advertising and marketing services revenue is recognised on issue of the related publication or over the period of the advertising subscription or marketing service period.
Revenue relating to barter transactions is recorded at fair value and recognised in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policies.
Expenses from barter transactions are recorded at fair value and recognised as incurred.
Barter transactions typically involve the trading of advertisements and trade show space in exchange for services provided at events.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED PENSION COSTS AND PENSION SCHEME ARRANGEMENTS Certain Group companies operate defined contribution pension schemes for employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents contributions payable and is charged as an expense when incurred.
The Group also operates funded defined benefit schemes for employees.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at regular intervals.
There is no service cost due to the fact that these schemes are closed to future accrual.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the opening net defined benefit liability or asset and shown in finance costs, and the administration costs are shown as a component of operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet represents the actual deficit or surplus in the Groups defined benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These are measured at fair value at date of grant.
Anexpense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate.
For awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, where the proportion of the award is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the fair value is measured using a Monte Carlo model of valuation, which is considered to be the most appropriate valuation technique.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For awards issued under ShareMatch, the fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised over the period of service, with the fair value re-measured at each reporting date, with any changes recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Own shares are deducted in arriving at total equity and represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by the Employee Share Trust EST and ShareMatch in connection with certain of the Groups employee share schemes.
INTEREST INCOME Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities inthe financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using thebalance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associate except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
126 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
GOODWILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
It is recognised as an asset at cost, assessed for impairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Fair value measurements are based on provisional estimates and may be subject to amendment within one year of the acquisition, resulting in an adjustment togoodwill.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, as determined by the Executive Directors for internal management purposes, expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Where an impairment test is performed a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the cash generating unit compared with the carrying value of that CGU, including goodwill.
The Group estimate the discount rates as the risk-adjusted cost of capital for the particular cash generating units.
Ifthe recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a business which includes all or part of a CGU, any attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
For intangible assets acquired in business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodologies Note 17.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, asfollows: 1 Book lists 20 years 1 Journal titles 20 years Brands and trade marks 10 20 years Customer relationship database and intellectual property 10 20 years Non-compete agreements 1 3 years Software 3 10 years Product development 3 5 years 1 Or licence period if shorter.
Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and other direct costs for employees who devote substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases when the project is substantially complete and available for use.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Product development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of certain conditions are met, with all research costs and other development expenditure being expensed when incurred.
The capitalisation criteria are as follows: an asset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Group intends to use or sell: it is technically feasible to complete the development of the asset for use or sale: it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefit: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives excluding goodwill.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property and equipment on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives ofthe assets.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The rates of depreciation on other assets are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 15 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is anyindication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset isestimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset orCGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant assetiscarried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
INVENTORY Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
Pre-publication costs are included in inventory, representing costs incurred in the origination of content prior to publication.
These are expensed systematically reflecting the expected sales profile over the estimated economic lives of the related products typically over 1-5 years.
LEASING Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership tothe lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the consolidated income statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Lease incentives where received from the lessor are treated as a reduction in lease rentals and spread over the term of the lease.
Rental income from sub-leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
128 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are recognised in the Groups consolidated balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: trade and other receivables, and cash at bank and on hand.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade receivables and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
CASH AT BANK AND ON HAND Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been negatively impacted.
For unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 30 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with increased default risk on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the provision account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY INSTRUMENTS ISSUED BY THE GROUP Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED BORROWINGS Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
NET DEBT Net debt consists of cash and cash equivalents and includes bank overdrafts, borrowings and other loan receivables where these are interest bearing and do not relate to deferred consideration arrangements.
FINANCE COSTS Debt issue costs are capitalised and are recognised in the consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate method.
TRADE PAYABLES Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest ratemethod.
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, as set out above, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Thederivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of a change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Fair value hedge: Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit orloss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the Consolidated Income Statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations: Hedges of net investment in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument in relation to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item is disposed of.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the consolidated income statement as they arise.
130 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 30.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will berequired to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties or implementation has commenced.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IFRSs Standards and interpretations adopted in the current year The following new standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted in the current year: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment entities Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 cycle, issues included: IFRS 5: Changes in methods of disposal IFRS 7: Servicing Contracts IFRS 7: Applicability of the amendments to IFRS 7 to condensed interim financial statements IAS 19: Discount rate: regional market issue IAS 34: Disclosure of information elsewhere in the interim financial report IAS 16 and IAS 38 amendments: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for acquisition of interests in joint operations The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any changes to the Groups accounting policies or had any other material impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Other amendments to IFRSs effective for the year ending 31December 2016 have no impact on the Group.
Standards and interpretations in issue, not yet effected At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied inthese financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments EU endorsed, effective from 1 January 2018: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers EU endorsed, effective from 1 January 2018: IFRS 16 Leases not yet EU endorsed, effective from 1 January 2019: Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised losses not yet EU endorsed, effective from 1 January 2017: Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative not yet EU endorsed, effective from 1 January 2017: Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions not yet EU endorsed, effective from 1 January 2018: Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts not yet EU endorsed, effective from 1 January 2018: Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2014-2016 cycle not yet EU endorsed, certain items effective from 1 January 2017, other items effective 1 January 2018: and IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration not yet EU endorsed, effective from 1 January 2018.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IFRSs CONTINUED Standards and interpretations in issue, not yet effected continued The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except as described in relation to leases: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for the 2018 financial year is a new standard which enhances the ability of investors and other users of financial information to understand the accounting for financial assets and financial liabilities and reduces complexity.
IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules in IAS 39.
The Group has conducted an assessment of the impact of this standard and concluded there is not expected to be any significant adjustment required on the measurement, presentation or disclosure of financial assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements when the standard is adopted.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for the 2018 financial year is a new standard providing a single point of reference for revenue recognition, based on a five-step model framework, which replaces all existing revenue accounting standards, interpretations and guidance.
The major change is the requirement to identify and assess the satisfaction of delivery of each performance obligation in contracts in order to recognise revenue.
Following a preliminary assessment of the financial impact of the changes required from the forthcoming adoption of this new standard, the Group does not expect there to be any material change to the Income Statement or Balance Sheet of the Group.
Full disclosure of the final assessment of the impact will be provided in the AnnualReport for the year ending 31 December 2017.
IFRS 16 Leases effective for the 2019 financial year.
This new leasing standard replaces the existing leasing standard IAS 17 Leases.
The new standard requires all leases to be treated in a consistent way, it eliminates the distinction between operating and finance leases and requires lessees to recognise all leases, with a remaining term of greater than 12 months, on the balance sheet.
The most significant effect of the new requirements will be an increase in lease assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 16 changes the nature of expenses related to those leases, replacing the straight-line operating lease expense with a depreciation charge for the lease asset included within operating costs and an interest expense on the lease liability included within finance costs.
The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of this new standard.
Note 34 provides further information on the Groups operating lease obligations.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Theestimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS In addition to the judgement taken by the Group in selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the Directors have made the following judgements concerning the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Impairment of assets Note 16 Identifying whether there are indicators of impairment for assets involves a high level of judgement and a good understanding of the drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period an assessment is performed in order to determine whether there are any such indicators, which involves considering the performance of our businesses, any significant changes to the markets in which we operate and future forecasts.
For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to the specific CGUs which are expected to benefit from the goodwill.
When there are changes in the business structure, judgement is required in identifying any changes to theidentification of CGUs taking account of the lowest level of independent cash inflows generated and the level at which the Chief Operating Decision Maker monitors the performance of the business.
There are a number of assumptions the Group has considered in performing impairment reviews of assets Note 16 details the assumptions that have been applied.
The determination of whether assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which assets have been allocated, except where fair value less costs to sell is applied.
The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from each cash generating unit using projections for five years and determining a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value, and the long-term growth rate.
The sensitivities considered by the directors are described in Note 16.
Identification of intangible assets acquired in business combinations Notes 17 and 18 There are significant judgements involved in assessing the provisional amounts recognised in respect of the estimated fair value of assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations, in particular the amounts attributed to separate intangible assets such as titles, brands, acquired customer lists and the associated customer relationships.
These judgements impact the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisitions.
Any provisional amounts are finalised within the 12-month measurement period, as permitted by IFRS 3.
132 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The fair values of assets recognised are based on recognised valuation techniques built, in part, on assumptions around the future performance of the business.
The Group has built considerable knowledge of these valuation techniques but notwithstanding this, formajor acquisitions, defined as when consideration is at or above 50.0m, the Group considers the advice of third-party independent valuers in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Details of acquisitions inthe year are set out in Note 18.
Recoverability of loan note receivables Note 23 The Group has a number of external receivables which were repayable over the next two to five years, mostly vendor loan notes receivable in relation to disposed businesses.
The recoverability of the capital and interest payments is dependent on the financial success of the counterparties over the coming years.
In making its judgement in respect of recoverability, the Group assesses for each significant loan receivable whether a credit risk provision is required.
Details of the carrying value of these receivables are in Note 23.
Taxation Notes 13, 27 and 28 The Groups total tax charge is the sum of the current and deferred tax charges and the charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
Provisions for tax contingencies require the Group to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
Amounts provided are based on the Groups interpretation of applicable tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions will be sustained.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means the eventual resolution could differ from the provision and in such event the Group would be required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period which could have an impact on the Groups profit and loss and or cash position.
The directors do not believe any such adjustments would be material.
The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is the assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation orsettlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is probable that there will be future taxable profits against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
Specifically, the Group has a gross deferred tax asset relating to unused tax losses in Penton, which are recognised net of the deferred tax liabilities arising from the fair value of acquisition intangible assets.
The recognition of this deferred tax asset is contingent on the Groups estimation of future taxable income and this estimation is supported by the Groups latest available three-year plan.
Adjusted results Notes 8 and 15 The Group presents adjusted results Note 8 and adjusted diluted earnings per share Note 15 to provide additional useful information on underlying performance and trends to Shareholders.
These results are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
Adjusted results excludes items that are commonly excluded across the media sector: amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets relating to businesses acquired and other intangible asset purchases oftitles and exhibitions, acquisition and integration costs charged to the Consolidated Income Statement, profit or loss on disposal ofbusinesses, restructuring costs and other non-recurring items that in the opinion of the Directors would distort underlying results.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
Refer to Note 8 for details of adjusting items recorded for the year and reconciled to Statutory Operating Profit.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised.
Recoverability of unused tax losses Note 27 The Group has a gross deferred tax asset relating to unused tax losses of 90.6m at 31 December 2016, which can be carried forward for use in future years.
The recognition of this deferred tax asset is contingent on the Groups estimation of future taxable income and the directors expect this asset to be utilised within five years.
Contingent consideration Notes 18 and 26 Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions is recognised initially based on the Groups estimate of the most likely outcome and discounted appropriately to fair value.
However, any subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Payments made to former owners are assessed to consider if these represent consideration related to the acquisition or as remuneration for services provided in the post-acquisition period.
The maximum contingent consideration payable under all arrangements is 24.5m, against which the Directors have provided for 21.2m, being the best estimate of the liability.
A gain of 7.4m has been recognised in the year ended 31 December 2016 due to changes in the estimates of the assumptions underlying the provision.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CONTINUED KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY: CONTINUED Pension assumptions Note 36 There are a number of assumptions the Group has considered which have an impact on the results of the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities at year end.
The most significant assumptions are those relating to the discount rate, the rates of increase in salaries and pensions and mortality assumptions.
Note 36 details the principal assumptions which have been adopted based on the advice received from independent actuaries and also details sensitivities to changes in these assumptions.
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets Note 17 In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, the Group are required to make estimates when utilising valuation methodologies.
Associated with this is deferred tax on these intangibles.
These methodologies include the use of discounted cash flows, revenue forecasts and the estimates for the useful economic lives of intangible assets.
For major acquisitions, defined as when consideration is at or above 50.0m, the Group considers the advice of third-party independent valuers in identifying and calculating the valuation of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
4 RESTATEMENT The results for the year ended 31 December 2015 have been restated for the finalisation of the valuation of the separately identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of the Ashgate Publishing Limited acquisition that completed on 16 July 2015.
This resulted in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2015 being adjusted for the recognition of additional receivables of 0.5m, additional inventory of 1.0m and a reduction to goodwill of 1.5m.
The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2015 was not impacted by this restatement.
The impact of the prior year restatements on the previously reported Consolidated Balance Sheet is summarised as follows: As at 31 December 2015 Previously reported Adjustments Restated m m m Goodwill 1,709.6 1.5 1,708.1 Non-current assets 2,733.4 1.5 2,731.9 Inventory 45.0 1.0 46.0 Trade and other receivables 242.9 0.5 243.4 Current assets 326.4 1.5 327.9 Total assets 3,059.8 3,059.8 Net assets 1,268.1 1,268.1 In addition to the above, earnings per share and dividend per share for the year ended 31 December 2015 have been restated to reflect the adjustment required for the bonus element of the 2016 rights issue associated with the Penton acquisition.
This resulted inreported basic and diluted earnings per share being restated from 26.4p to 24.3p and adjusted basic and diluted earnings pershare from 42.9p to 39.5p per share.
Refer to Note 14 for the impact of the bonus element on Dividends per share.
134 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 5 REVENUE An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Subscriptions 507.4 461.3 Exhibitor 276.3 241.7 Unit sales 269.9 254.0 Attendee 151.9 156.6 Sponsorship 92.6 77.0 Advertising & Marketing Services 47.6 21.6 Total revenue 1,345.7 1,212.2 6 BUSINESS SEGMENTS BUSINESS SEGMENTS The Group has identified reportable segments based on financial information used by the Executive Directors in allocating resources and making strategic decisions.
We consider the Chief Operating Decision Maker to be the Executive Directors.
The Groups five 2015: four identified reporting segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are as follows: Academic Publishing The Academic Publishing Division provides books and journals, both in print and electronic formats, primarily for academic and research users, in the subject areas of humanities & social sciences, and science, technology & medicine.
It operates as Taylor &Francis with other imprints including Routledge, CRC Press, Garland Science and Cogent OA.
Business Intelligence The Business Intelligence Division provides specialist data-driven intelligence and insight to professionals in niche communities.
The digital subscription products consist of rich datasets and valuable insight, across the agricultural, financial, maritime, pharmaceutical, and technology, media and telecoms sectors.
Global Exhibitions The Global Exhibitions Division is an international exhibitions organiser.
It operates business to business exhibitions and trade shows, as well as a number of consumer events, enabling specialist communities to meet face to face, and conduct business.
Knowledge & Networking The Knowledge & Networking Division provides conferences and training courses globally.
It creates and connects communities based on the sharing of insights and learning, providing attendees with the opportunity to meet, network and share knowledge.
Penton Information Services Penton is the US-based Exhibitions and Professional Information Services business that was acquired on 2 November 2016.
The Penton business lines will be incorporated into the business segments of Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking in 2017 and for 2016 in the post-acquisition period it has been operated and reported as a separate Division.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 6 BUSINESS SEGMENTS CONTINUED SEGMENT REVENUE AND RESULTS The Groups primary internal Income Statement performance measure for Business Segments is Revenue and Adjusted Operating Profit.
A reconciliation of Adjusted Operating Profit to Statutory Operating Profit and Profit Before Tax is provided below: Period ending 31 December 2016 Penton Academic Business Global Knowledge & Information Publishing Intelligence Exhibitions Networking Services Total m m m m m m Revenue Note 5 490.4 290.0 306.9 224.4 34.0 1,345.7 Adjusted operating profit before joint ventures and associate 187.2 65.7 118.2 37.4 6.8 415.3 Share of adjusted results of joint ventures andassociate 0.8 0.8 Adjusted operating profit 187.2 65.7 119.0 37.4 6.8 416.1 1 Intangible asset amortisation Note 17 48.2 18.0 33.9 9.8 6.8 116.7 Impairment Note 8 31.1 36.6 67.7 Acquisition and integration costs Note 8 0.4 0.1 3.0 1.0 28.6 33.1 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 3.6 1.8 0.1 1.7 7.2 Subsequent re-measurement of  Note 8 2.4 5.0 7.4 Operating profit loss 135.0 45.8 53.3 6.7 28.6 198.8 Loss on disposal of businesses Note 20 39.8 Investment income Note 11 59.5 Finance costs Note 12 40.2 Profit before tax 178.3 1 Excludes acquired intangible product development and software amortisation.
136 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Period ending 31 December 2015 Academic Business Global Knowledge & Publishing Intelligence Exhibitions Networking Total m m m m m Revenue Note 5 447.4 276.8 262.5 225.5 1,212.2 Adjusted operating profit before joint ventures 164.8 63.2 98.1 39.6 365.7 Share of adjusted results of joint ventures 0.1 0.1 Adjusted operating profit 164.8 63.2 98.0 39.6 365.6 1 Intangible asset amortisation Note 17 44.4 16.1 28.7 10.3 99.5 Impairment Note 8 1.1 12.8 13.9 Acquisition and integration costs Note 8 0.8 1.4 0.1 2.3 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 3.3 3.7 1.4 5.3 13.7 Subsequent re-measurement of  Note 8 0.2 0.5 0.3 Operating profit 116.3 42.1 67.0 11.1 236.5 Profit on disposal of businesses Note 20 9.1 Investment income Note 11 4.7 Finance costs Note 12 30.6 Profit before tax 219.7 1 Excludes acquired intangible product development and software amortisation.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 2.
Adjusted operating result by operating segment is the measure reported to the Executive Directors for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Finance costs and investment income are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity isdriven by the central treasury function, which manages the cash positions of the Group.
SEGMENT ASSETS 2016 2015 m m Academic Publishing 1,201.2 1,114.4 Business Intelligence 835.1 761.7 Global Exhibitions 872.8 718.6 Knowledge & Networking 458.1 374.3 Penton Information Services 1,509.7 Total segment assets 4,876.9 2,969.0 Unallocated assets 134.6 90.8 Total assets 5,011.5 3,059.8 For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, the Group monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment.
All assets are allocated to reportable segments except for certain centrally held balances, including some intangible software assets relating to group infrastructure, balances receivable from businesses sold and taxation current and deferred.
Assets used jointly by reportable segments are allocated on the basis of the revenues earned by individual reportable segments.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 6 BUSINESS SEGMENTS CONTINUED SEGMENT REVENUE BY TYPE The Groups revenues from its major products and services were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Academic Publishing Subscriptions 243.1 216.4 Unit sales 247.3 231.0 Total Academic Publishing 490.4 447.4 Business Intelligence Subscriptions 258.4 244.9 Unit sales 22.6 23.0 Advertising 9.0 8.9 Total Business Intelligence 290.0 276.8 Global Exhibitions Exhibitor 233.7 199.2 Attendee 37.5 33.1 Sponsorship 28.6 23.3 Advertising 7.1 6.9 Total Global Exhibitions 306.9 262.5 Knowledge & Networking Exhibitor 41.4 42.5 Attendee 113.8 123.5 Sponsorship 62.7 53.7 Advertising 6.5 5.8 Total Knowledge & Networking 224.4 225.5 Penton Information Services Subscription 5.9 Exhibitor 1.2 Attendee 0.6 Sponsorship 1.3 Advertising & Marketing Services 25.0 Total Penton Information Services 34.0 Total revenue 1,345.7 1,212.2 138 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION The Groups revenue by location of customer and information about its segment assets by geographical location are detailed below: Revenue Segment assets 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m UK 145.8 143.1 1,296.9 1,229.7 North America 624.7 511.5 3,340.0 1,495.9 Continental Europe 213.5 215.5 79.0 54.7 Rest of World 361.7 342.1 295.6 279.5 1,345.7 1,212.2 5,011.5 3,059.8 No individual customer contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue in either 2016 or 2015.
7 OPERATING PROFIT Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory results items results results items results 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Notes m m m m m m 1 Cost of sales 415.3 415.3 377.6 377.6 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 9 372.5 372.5 333.6 333.6 Amortisation of other intangibleassets 17 14.6 116.7 131.3 12.8 99.5 112.3 Impairment goodwill 8 65.8 65.8 13.9 13.9 Impairment intangibles 8 1.9 1.9 Depreciation 21 6.5 6.5 6.1 6.1 Acquisition and integration related costs 8 33.1 33.1 2.3 2.3 Restructuring and reorganisationcosts 8 7.2 7.2 13.7 13.7 Subsequent re-measurement ofcontingent consideration 8 7.4 7.4 0.3 0.3 Operating lease expense Land and buildings 34 22.9 22.9 18.1 18.1 Other 34 1.0 1.0 1.3 1.3 Net foreign exchange loss 1.3 1.3 1.9 1.9 Auditors remuneration for audit services see below 1.4 1.4 1.1 1.3 Other operating expenses 94.9 94.9 94.0 93.8 Total net operating expenses before joint ventures and associate 930.4 217.3 1,147.7 846.5 129.1 975.6 1 Cost of sales includes 47.6m 2015: 45.9m for inventory recognised as an expense including pre-publication amortisation.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 7 OPERATING PROFIT CONTINUED Amounts payable to the auditor, Deloitte LLP and its associates, by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is provided below: 2016 2015 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual financialstatements 0.8 0.7 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.6 0.4 Total audit fees 1.4 1.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for non-audit services comprises: Transaction Support Services 4.9 Half Year Review 0.1 0.1 Taxation Services 0.1 0.3 Total non-audit fees 5.1 0.4 Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
The Audit Committee approves all non-audit services within the Companys policy.
During the year, the auditor provided Transaction Support Services principally in relation to the reporting requirements associated with the size of the Penton acquisition, the Audit Committee having concluded that the auditor was best placed to perform these services due to their knowledge of the Company.
Theratio of non-audit services to audit services was therefore exceptional at 3.6x 2015: 0.3x.
Excluding the Transaction Support Services, the ratio in 2016 was 0.1x.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 72 and includes anexplanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
Noservices were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
140 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 8 ADJUSTING ITEMS The following charges credits are presented as adjusting items: 2016 2015 Notes m m Intangible amortisation and impairment Intangible asset amortisation 17 116.7 99.5 Impairment goodwill 16 65.8 13.9 Impairment other intangible assets 17 1.9 Acquisition and integration costs 7 33.1 2.3 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Redundancy costs 6.0 11.4 Reorganisation costs 0.4 0.4 Vacant property costs 1.6 1.9 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 7 7.4 0.3 Adjusting items in operating profit 217.3 129.1 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 20 39.8 9.1 Investment income 11 58.9 Adjusting items in profit before tax 198.2 120.0 Tax related to adjusting items 13 63.2 13.2 Adjusting items in profit for the year 135.0 106.8 The principal adjustments made are in respect of: Intangible asset amortisation the amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets acquired through business combinations or the acquisition of trade and assets is excluded from adjusted results as they do not relate to underlying trading: Impairment the Group tests for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when an indicator exists.
Impairment charges are individually disclosed and are excluded from adjusted results as they do not relate to underlying trading See Note 16 for further details : Acquisition and integration costs the costs incurred by the Group in acquiring and integrating share and asset acquisitions.
Acquisition costs totalled 30.0m, with 26.2m relating to the Penton acquisition: integration costs totalled 3.1m: Redundancy, reorganisation and vacant property costs these are mainly related to the consolidation of our Books operations into asingle global business within Academic Publishing and the ongoing rationalisation programme in the Knowledge & Networking Division, changing the operating model to align with the Groups revised strategy, the Growth Acceleration Plan: Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the period as a charge or credit to the Consolidated Income Statement unless these qualify as measurement period adjustments arising within one year from the acquisition date.
Theyare excluded from adjusted results as they do not relate to underlying trading: Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations this relates to a 3.9m loss on disposal for the fair value of consideration less the net assets liabilities disposed, and costs directly attributable with disposals, together with a 35.9m net charge from the impairment 39.9m and a recovery 4.0m of loan notes receivable arising from business disposals completed in prior years: Investment income of 58.9m relates to the gain on a deal contingent forward financial derivative contract associated with the Penton acquisition has been disclosed as an adjusting item as it is non-recurring in nature, further details are provided in Note 11: and The tax related to adjusting items is the tax effect of the items above.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 9 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by segment, was as follows: Number of employees 2016 2015 Academic Publishing 2,079 2,062 Business Intelligence 2,024 2,093 Global Exhibitions 931 878 Knowledge & Networking 1,326 1,537 1 Penton Information Services 199 6,559 6,570 1 Number of employees for Penton Information Services reflects the average for the full year.
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2016 2015 m m Wages and salaries 327.6 293.9 Social security costs 30.1 27.9 Pension costs charged to operating profit Note 36 9.9 9.2 Share-based payment Note 10 4.9 2.6 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 372.5 333.6 Redundancy costs Note 8 6.0 11.4 378.5 345.0 The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Note 37.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors isprovided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on page 91.
2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.8 3.3 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.3 Share based payment 1.9 0.7 5.0 4.3 142 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 10 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs provide for nil cost options and have a grant price equal to the middle market quotation from the day prior to the grant date.
The performance period is three years starting with the year in which the grant is made.
LTIP awards are conditional share awards with specific performance conditions.
To the extent they are met or satisfied then awards will vest following the end of the relevant performance period.
LTIP allocations are equity-settled and will lapse if the employee leaves the Group before an LTIP grant vests, unless the employee meets certain eligibility criteria.
As noted in the Remuneration Report, in April 2016, the Remuneration Committee approved the immediate conversion of LTIP awards from allocations to nil cost options, giving participants greater flexibility over when they can exercise their options.
The Group recognised total expenses of 4.9m 2015: 2.6m related to share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31December 2016 with 3.6m 2015: 2.4m relating to equity-settled LTIPs, 0.3m 2015: 0.2m relating to equity-settled ShareMatch and 1.0m 2015: 0.3m relating to cash-settled awards.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The 2016 LTIP award was granted on 17 March 2016.
The performance conditions of the 2016 LTIP awards to Executive Directors were relative Total Shareholder Return TSR for FTSE 51150 constituents, excluding financial services and commodities and Earnings Per Share EPS Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR.
The 2015 LTIP award was granted on 13 February 2015.
The performance conditions of the 2015 LTIP awards to Executive Directors were relative Total Shareholder Return TSR for FTSE 51150 constituents, excluding financial services and commodities.
The 2014 LTIP award was granted on 5 September 2014.
The performance conditions of the 2014 LTIP awards were relative TSR equally split between two peer groups i the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index, excluding Investment Trusts, and ii the constituents of the FTSE All Share Media Index and Personal Strategic Measures.
Further details are set out in pages 95 to 105 in the Remuneration Report.
The movement during the year includes an adjustment to the number of awards to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue, and is as follows: 2016 2015 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at 1 January 2,311,469 1,953,149 Adjustment to reflect bonus element of Rights Issue 229,874 LTIPs exercised in the year 232,847 LTIPs lapsed in the year 462,362 687,375 LTIPs granted in the year 1,051,189 1,045,695 Outstanding at 31 December 2,897,323 2,311,469 The TSR award components were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo simulation model for the LTIP performance conditions are: Share price Annual Share price at exercise Expected Expected Risk Dividend 1 2 Date of grant at grant date date volatility life years free rate yield 1 September 2013 5.09 6.50 27.0% 3 0.3% 4.2% 8 September 2014 5.18 n a 20.0% 3 0.9% 3.7% 13 February 2015 5.29 n a 21.0% 3 0.8% 3.4% 17 March 2016 6.91 n a 20.4% 3 0.62% 3.2% 1 Grant price has not been adjusted for bonus element of 2016 rights issue.
2 From 1 January of year in which grant made.
In order to satisfy share awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the share capital would be increased by up to 2,545,976 shares 2015: 1,574,197 shares taking account of the shares held in the EST Note 32.
The Company is planning to satisfy the awards through the issue of additional share capital or the purchase of shares as needed on the open market.
The weighted average share price during the year was 6.78 2015: 5.65.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 10 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on the Groups best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
SHAREMATCH SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN In June 2014, the Company launched ShareMatch, a global Share Incentive Plan tax qualifying in the UK, under which eligible employees can invest up to the limit of 1,800 per annum in the Companys shares.
The scheme includes a matching element, whereby for every two shares purchased, the Company will award the participant one matching share.
As noted in the Remuneration Report, the matching element has been increased to one new share for every one purchased from March 2017.
Matching shares are subject to forfeiture if the purchased shares are withdrawn from the scheme within three years of purchase or if the employee leaves the Group, unless the reason for leaving is due to restructuring or retirement.
In addition, both the purchased and matching shares are eligible to receive anydividends payable by the Company, which are reinvested in more shares.
Employee subscriptions can be made on a monthly orone-off, lump sum basis and matching shares are purchased on a monthly basis, through a UK Trust.
Further details are set out inthe remuneration section of the financial statements.
2016 2015 ShareMatch ShareMatch Number of Number of share awards share awards Outstanding at 1 January 109,729 36,435 Adjustment to reflect Rights Issue 8,216 Exercised in the year 17,445 Lapsed in the year 11,434 5,203 Granted in the year 52,748 78,497 Outstanding at 31 December 141,814 109,729 11 INVESTMENT INCOME 2016 2015 m m Loans and receivables: Interest income on bank deposits 0.6 0.7 Interest income on non-current receivables 4.0 Fair value gain on financial instruments through the income statement 58.9 59.5 4.7 The fair value gain on financial instruments in 2016 of 58.9m represents the gain on maturity from the deal contingent forward contract related to the acquisition of the Penton business.
The contract was taken out at the acquisition announcement date of 14 September 2016 and gave the Group the right to swap the expected sterling net proceeds from the equity rights issue of 701.5m into US Dollars with a maturity date set at the acquisition closing date.
This one-off gain has been shown as an adjusting item in the Consolidated Income Statement.
144 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 12 FINANCE COSTS 2016 2015 Note m m Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 39.5 30.1 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 36 0.2 0.3 Total interest expense 39.7 30.4 Fair value loss on financial instruments through the income statement 0.5 0.2 40.2 30.6 13 TAXATION The tax charge comprises: 2016 2015 Notes m m Current tax: UK 34.1 19.3 USA 20.0 6.3 UAE & Monaco 1.0 Rest of the World 10.2 6.0 Current year 24.3 32.6 Deferred tax: Current year 27 15.3 14.4 Credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 27 4.2 Total tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 4.8 47.0 The tax on adjusting items within the Consolidated Income Statement relates to the following: Gross Tax Gross Tax 2016 2016 2015 2015 Notes m m m m Amortisation of other intangible assets 8 116.7 41.3 99.5 17.7 Deferred tax credit arising from revised treatment of certain non-UK intangible assets 12.1 Benefit of US goodwill amortisation for tax purposes only 10.0 7.4 Impairment 8 67.7 13.9 Redundancy and restructuring costs 8 7.2 1.9 13.7 2.6 Acquisition and integration costs 8 33.1 4.5 2.3 0.5 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 8 7.4 0.6 0.3 0.2 Loss profit on disposal of businesses 20 39.8 21.5 9.1 Deferred tax credit on intangible assets arising from UK corporation tax rate change 27 4.3 Investment income 8 58.9 11.8 198.2 63.2 120.0 13.2 145 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 13 TAXATION CONTINUED During 2016, the treatment of certain non-UK intangible assets has been reviewed, and a deferred tax asset has been established in relation to the unamortised tax base of these intangible assets.
As there is no corresponding accounting amortisation of these assets, the benefits of tax deductions for amortisation of the tax base are reflected in the adjusted tax charge, and the creation of the deferred tax asset is treated as an adjusting item.
The current and deferred tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation is calculated in each jurisdiction based on the prevailing rates of that jurisdiction.
The total tax charge credit for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2016 2015 m % m % Profit before tax 178.3 219.7 Tax charge at effective UK statutory rate of 20% 2015: 20.25% 35.7 20.0 44.5 20.2 Non-deductible impairments 16.3 9.1 2.9 1.3 Other non-deductible expenses & similar items 2.1 1.2 2.2 1.0 Profits taxed at different rates 17.5 9.8 7.6 3.5 Adjustments for prior years 4.7 2.7 3.0 1.3 Adjustments to deferred tax on intangible assets 18.4 10.2 9.9 4.5 Acquisitions and disposals related 1.7 1.0 2.7 1.2 Benefits from financing structures 9.1 5.1 8.2 3.8 Tax incentives and foreign tax credits 4.0 2.2 3.4 1.5 Losses in certain jurisdictions that have not been recognised 5.5 3.1 1.6 0.7 Deferred tax credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 0.6 0.3 Tax charge and effective rate for the year 4.8 2.7 47.0 21.4 In addition to the income tax charge to the Consolidated Income Statement, a tax credit of 2.0m 2015: charge of 1.2m has been recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the year.
146 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 14 DIVIDENDS 1 2016 2015 Per share 2016 Per share 2015 p m p m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 previously stated 12.90p 11.88 83.6 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 previously stated 6.55p 6.03 42.5 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 previously stated 13.55p 12.47 87.8 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 previously stated 6.80p 6.26 44.1 18.73 131.9 17.91 126.1 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 and actual dividend for 31 December 2015 13.04 107.5 12.47 87.8 1 Dividend per share restated for bonus element of 2016 rights issue.
As at 31 December 2016 0.1m 2015: 0.1m of dividends are still to be paid.
15 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share figures for 2015 have been restated from previously reported figures to take into account the impact of the Rights Issue in line with IAS 33 Earnings per Share.
BASIC The basic earnings per share calculation is based on a profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent of 171.6m 2015: 171.4m profit.
This profit on ordinary activities after taxation is divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less those shares held by the EST and ShareMatch, which is 725,629,255 2015: restated amount 704,067,024.
DILUTED The diluted earnings per share calculation is based on the basic earnings per share calculation above except that the weighted average number of shares includes all potentially dilutive options granted by the reporting date as if those options had been exercised on the first day of the accounting period or the date of the grant, if later, giving a weighted average of 727,826,695 2015: restated amount 704,563,017.
The table below sets out the adjustment in respect of dilutive potential ordinary shares with the 2015 amounts restated to reflect the adjustments associated with the Rights Issue: 1 2016 2015 Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share 725,629,255 704,067,024 Potentially dilutive ordinary shares 2,197,440 495,993 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share 727,826,695 704,563,017 1 Restated for bonus element of 2016 rights issue.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 15 EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED EARNINGS PER SHARE In addition to basic EPS, adjusted diluted earnings per share calculations have been provided as this is useful additional information onunderlying performance.
Earnings are based on profits attributable to equity shareholders and adjusted to exclude items that in the opinion of the Directors would distort underlying results with these items detailed in Note 8.
Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 2016 2016 2015 2015 1 m Pence m Pence Profit for the year 173.5 172.7 Non-controlling interests 1.9 1.3 Earnings for the purpose of statutory basic EPS statutory diluted EPS 171.6 23.6 171.4 24.3 1 Restated for bonus element of 2016 rights issue Earnings per share and Diluted earnings per share previously reported 26.4p.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 2016 2016 2015 2015 1 m Pence m Pence Earnings for the purpose of Statutory Basic EPS Statutory Diluted EPS 171.6 23.6 171.4 24.3 Adjusting items: Redundancy and restructuring costs Note 8 7.2 1.0 13.7 2.0 Acquisition and integration costs Note 8 33.1 4.6 2.3 0.3 Intangible amortisation and impairment Note 8 184.4 25.4 113.4 16.1 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 8 7.4 1.0 0.3 Loss profit on disposal and other adjusting items Note 8 39.8 5.4 9.1 1.3 Investment income Note 8 58.9 8.1 Add back tax on adjusting items Note 8 63.2 8.7 13.2 1.9 Earnings for the purpose of adjusted basic EPS 306.6 42.2 278.2 39.5 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 0.1 Earnings for the purpose of adjusted diluted EPS 306.6 42.1 278.2 39.5 1 Restated for bonus element of 2016 rights issue 2015 adjusted EPS previously reported 42.9p.
148 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 16 GOODWILL m Cost At 1 January 2015 1,920.5 Additions in the year Note 18 35.8 1 Disposals 150.2 Exchange differences 18.2 At 1 January 2016 as previously reported 1,824.3 2 Adjustment for re-measurement of prior year acquisition 1.5 At 1 January 2016 as restated 1,822.8 Additions in the year Note 18 877.6 Disposals 0.1 Exchange differences 216.7 At 31 December 2016 2,917.0 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2015 253.6 Impairment losses for the year Note 8 13.9 Disposals 150.0 Exchange differences 2.8 At 1 January 2016 114.7 Impairment losses for the year Note 8 65.8 Disposals Exchange differences 12.1 At 31 December 2016 192.6 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 2,724.4 At 31 December 2015 as restated 1,708.1 1 Included within disposals in 2015 was fully amortised goodwill written off of 150.0m.
2 The restatement of goodwill relates to the finalisation of the valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets of the Ashgate Publishing Limited acquisition that completed on 16 July 2015.
This resulted in the recognition of additional receivables of 0.5m, additional inventory of 1.0m and a reduction to goodwill of1.5m.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 16 GOODWILL CONTINUED IMPAIRMENT REVIEW As goodwill is not amortised, it is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment.
The testing involves comparing the carrying value of assets in each cash-generating unit CGU with value in use calculations or assessments offair value less cost to sell derived from the latest Group cash flow projections.
In 2016 there was impairment of goodwill totalling 65.8m 2015: Total goodwill impairment 13.9m, with a charge of 29.2m in GlobalExhibitions principally relating to the Brazil CGU, and 36.6m in Knowledge & Networking relating to the Regional Hub CGU.
At31 December 2016, the recoverable amount of the Brazil CGU was 31.1m and the recoverable amount of the Regional Hub CGUwas 4.2m.
For reporting purposes, the CGUs are aggregated into five 2015: four reportable segments which each have their own Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer.
The carrying amount of goodwill recorded in themajor groups of CGUs is set outbelow: CGU GROUPS 1 2016 2015 2016 2015 Number of CGUs Number of CGUs m m Academic Publishing 1 1 519.8 475.7 Business Intelligence 5 5 631.2 591.6 Global Exhibitions 11 7 420.0 361.4 Knowledge & Networking 7 8 319.6 279.4 Penton Information Services 1 833.8 25 21 2,724.4 1,708.1 1 The restatement of goodwill relates to the finalisation of the valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets of the Ashgate Publishing Limited acquisition that completed on 16 July 2015.
The movements in the carrying amount relate primarily to acquisitions, disposals, exchange movements and adjustments arising  arising when acquisition intangible valuations are completed.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined as the greater of the value in use calculations or fair value less costs to sell, which are based on the cash flow projections for each CGU.
The key assumptions are those regarding the revenue and operating margin growth rates together with the long-term growth rate and the discount rate applied to the forecast cash flows.
The recoverable amount measurement is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs to the valuation techniques used.
Estimated future cash flows are determined by reference to the latest budget and forecasts for the next five years after which a long-term perpetuity growth rate is applied.
The most recent financial budget approved by the Board of Directors has been prepared after considering the current economic environment in each of our markets.
The estimates of future cash flows are consistent with past experience adjusted for the Groups estimate of future performance.
Long-term market growth rates Pre-tax discount rates Key assumptions 2016 2015 2016 2015 Academic Publishing 2.2% 2.4% 10.5% 10.3% Business Intelligence 2.0 2.4% 2.0 2.4% 9.8 10.7% 10.1 11.4% Global Exhibitions 1.9 3.9% 2.0 3.5% 8.9 14.9% 8.3 14.4% Knowledge & Networking 1.9 2.4% 1.8 2.4% 9.8 11.0% 10.2 11.5% Penton Information Services 2.4% N A 12.2% N A The pre-tax discount rates used in the value in use calculations reflect the Groups assessment of the current market and other risks specific to the CGUs.
Long-term growth rates are applied after the forecast period of five years and do not exceed the long-term average growth prospects for the markets in which the CGUs operate.
Long term growth rates are sourced from external reports onlong-term CPI inflation rates for each CGU.
150 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The Group has undertaken a sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on key impairment test assumptions arising from a range of possible future trading and economic scenarios.
The scenarios have been performed separately for each CGU with the sensitivities summarised as follows: an increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 1.0%: and a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 0.5%.
The sensitivity analysis shows that when applying the 1.0% increase in pre-tax discount there would be an 8.2m increase in the total impairment charge, which reflects an impairment of 5.7m in the Telecoms, Media & Technology TMT CGU that sits within the Business Intelligence division, and a 2.5m increase in the impairment in the Brazil CGU in Global Exhibitions.
When applying the 0.5% decrease in terminal growth rate sensitivity there would be a 2.8m increase in the total impairment charge, which reflects an impairment of 2.0m in the TMT CGU that sits within the Business Intelligence division, and a 0.8m increase in the impairment in the Brazil CGU in Global Exhibitions.
When applying the above criteria combined, there would be a 11.8m increase in the total impairment charge, which reflects an impairment of 7.4m in the TMT CGU, and 1.3m in the Finance CGU, both of which sit within the Business Intelligence division and a3.1m increase in the impairment in the Brazil CGU in Global Exhibitions.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 17 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Database and Exhibtions intellectual and Publishing property, conferences, book lists brand and brand and Intangible and journal customer customer Subsoftware Product 3 2 titles relationship relationships total assets development Total m m m m m m m Amortisation At 1 January 2015 270.1 439.6 183.1 892.8 47.0 7.2 947.0 Charge for the year 44.5 23.0 32.0 99.5 10.6 2.2 112.3 Disposals Note 20 74.2 2.7 76.9 2.5 0.1 79.5 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.7 0.7 Reclassification Note 21 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences 7.9 11.2 0.8 18.3 0.9 0.4 19.6 At 1 January 2016 322.5 399.6 211.6 933.7 55.4 9.7 998.8 Charge for the year 49.5 17.9 49.3 116.7 10.6 4.0 131.3 Impairment losses Note 8 1.9 1.9 1.9 Disposals Note 20 0.3 0.3 2.0 2.3 Exchange differences 38.8 56.7 37.4 132.9 4.7 1.9 139.5 At 31 December 2016 410.5 474.2 300.2 1,184.9 68.7 15.6 1,269.2 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 500.9 93.1 1,035.6 1,629.6 87.4 38.0 1,755.0 At 31 December 2015 490.9 92.3 323.5 906.7 49.0 12.5 968.2 1 Additions includes business asset additions and Intangible software assets and product development.
2 All product development in 2016 and 2015 is internally generated.
3 Included in amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries and operations is 648.2m related to the Penton acquisition which is based on provisional valuations.
Intangible software assets include a gross carrying amount of 136.8m 2015: 90.0m and accumulated amortisation of 57.4m 2015: 46.0m which relates to software that has been internally generated.
The Group does not have any of its other intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
152 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CASH PAID ON ACQUISITION NET OF CASH ACQUIRED 2016 2015 Segment m m Current period acquisitions Penton Information Services Penton Information Services 1,218.8 Light Reading LLC Knowledge & Networking 44.3 Finovate Group, Inc Knowledge & Networking 13.8 Eurovir SAS Global Exhibitions 2.9 Market Rates Insight Business Intelligence 2.7 Xconomy, Inc Knowledge & Networking 0.7 Co-Action Publishing AB Academic Publishing 3.2 Chengdu Weiner Meibo Exhibition Co. Ltd Global Exhibitions 1.2 Shanghai Yingye Exhibitions Co.
Global Exhibitions 1.9 1,289.5 Prior year acquisitions 2015 acquisitions: WS Maney & Son Limited Academic Publishing 21.3 Ashgate Publishing Ltd and Inc.
Academic Publishing 19.1 Boston Biotech Conference LLC Knowledge & Networking 0.9 12.7 MegaConvention, Inc.
Global Exhibitions 0.6 7.6 Pickering & Chatto Publishers Ltd Academic Publishing 0.1 1.4 LeadersIn Knowledge & Networking 0.2 Brick Shows Global Exhibitions 0.2 1.6 62.5 2014 acquisitions: Hanley Wood Exhibitions Global Exhibitions 0.5 Baiwen Global Exhibitions 2.1 Other 1.1 4.1 1.1 5.7 2013 acquisitions: Compendium Contech Lte Global Exhibitions 0.3 Doyle Trading Consultants 1.2 Other 0.7 1.9 0.3 2010-2012 acquisitions: Other 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 Total cash paid in year 1,294.2 68.8 153 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED In line with the Groups strategy, a number of acquisitions were made in the year.
The contingent consideration for our share and asset acquisitions is based on future business valuations and profit multiples and has been estimated on an acquisition by acquisition basis using available data forecasts.
The maximum undiscounted amounts payable for contingent consideration is 24.5m.
ACQUISITIONS The provisional amounts recognised in respect of the estimated fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities in respect of acquisitions made in 2016 and payments made in 2016 relating to prior year acquisitions was: Net assets liabilities at acquisition date Other payments Other for prior Light 2016 year Penton Reading Finovate acquisitions acquisitions Total m m m m m m Intangible assets 648.2 24.6 5.1 22.2 700.1 Property and equipment 7.9 7.9 Investments 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax asset 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 41.2 3.7 0.4 2.6 47.9 Cash and cash equivalents 21.4 2.0 0.8 3.5 27.7 Trade, other payables and provisions 24.9 1.8 1.9 4.7 23.9 Deferred income 59.5 1.6 1.5 4.0 66.6 Deferred tax liabilities 114.7 3.9 0.9 119.5 Retirement benefit obligation 19.6 19.6 Identifiable net assets acquired 500.2 27.1 0.9 21.5 4.7 554.4 Goodwill 833.8 22.8 20.1 0.9 877.6 Total consideration 1,334.0 49.9 21.0 22.4 4.7 1,432.0 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 1,240.2 46.3 14.2 16.1 1,316.8 Deferred and contingent consideration paid 0.4 4.7 5.1 Deferred closing price adjustment 6.6 3.6 1.3 1.7 Deferred consideration 18.2 4.0 22.2 Contingent consideration 5.1 2.3 7.4 Share consideration 82.2 82.2 Total consideration 1,334.0 49.9 21.0 22.4 4.7 1,432.0 Net cash outflow arising on acquisitions: Cash consideration 1,240.2 46.3 14.2 16.1 1,316.8 Deferred and contingent consideration paid 0.4 4.7 5.1 Less: net cash acquired 21.4 2.0 0.8 3.5 27.7 Net cash outflow arising on acquisitions 1,218.8 44.3 13.8 12.6 4.7 1,294.2 154 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2016 Penton Information Services On 2 November 2016, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Penton Information Services, a leading independent US-based exhibitions and professional information services business.
The provisional amounts recognised in respect of the estimated fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as follows: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 17.6 630.6 648.2 Property and equipment 7.9 7.9 Investments 0.2 0.2 1 Deferred tax asset 46.8 46.8 Trade and other receivables 42.9 1.7 41.2 Cash and cash equivalents 21.4 21.4 Trade and other payables 23.8 1.1 24.9 Deferred income 59.5 59.5 Borrowings Deferred tax liabilities 114.7 114.7 Retirement benefit obligation 19.6 19.6 Identifiable net assets acquired 33.9 466.3 500.2 Provisional goodwill 833.8 Total consideration 1,334.0 1 The fair value adjustment of Deferred Tax Assets represents the net presentation of Deferred Tax Assets against Deferred Tax Liabilities.
The net cash consideration at closing, using an exchange rate of 1.22, was 1,218.8m $1,482.5m, comprising 1,240.2m $1,508.6m of cash consideration paid to the vendors at closing date, less cash acquired of 21.4m $26.1m.
Total consideration at closing, using an exchange rate of 1.22, was 1,334.0m $1,622.7m, consisting of 1,240.2m $1,508.6m of consideration settled in cash, deferred closing price refund of 6.6m $8.0m, 82.2m $100.0m of share consideration and deferred consideration with an estimated fair value of 18.2m $22.1m payable in October 2018 for anticipated future tax benefits.
The provisional value of Identifiable net assets of 500.2m included cash of 21.4m, intangible assets of 648.2m and deferred tax liabilities of 114.7m.
A goodwill balance of 833.8m has been recorded.
These net asset amounts are provisional and reflect a preliminary valuation performed by a third party valuation expert.
These numbers are therefore subject to change in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 once the full purchase price allocation and fair value analysis has been completed.
The goodwill of 833.8m arising from the acquisition of Penton relates to the following factors: Provides Informa with increased scale in the Global Exhibitions market, where it now ranks as one of the top 3 commercial exhibitionorganisers: Enhances Informas market leadership in a number of verticals, particularly natural products and ingredients, agriculture andinfrastructure: A strong management team with expertise which can be applied to other parts of the Group: and Increases Informas exposure to the US, the largest economy in the world, providing greater balance across geographies and products.
Acquisition costs charged to operating profit included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31December 2016 amounted to 26.2m for adviser and related external fees and an income statement credit of 58.9m relating tothe derivative forward contract used to hedge the proceeds of the equity rights issue see Note 11.
In addition, there were underwriting fees associated with the equity rights issue of 14.0m which were charged to the Share Premium account.
The business contributed 34.0m of revenue and a loss after tax of 4.8m for the period between the date of acquisition and 31December 2016.
If the acquisition had completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 276.0m ofrevenue and 21.1m of profit after tax to the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2016 CONTINUED Light Reading LLC On 13 July 2016, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Light Reading LLC a leading content-driven B2B integrated marketing services company serving the communications industry.
The Company forms part of the Knowledge & Networking segment.
Total consideration was 49.9m $67.2m of which 44.3m $59.6m was paid in cash, net of cash acquired of 2.0m $2.7m, and there is a deferred consideration amount payable of 3.6m $4.9m.
The provisional amounts recognised in respect of the estimated fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed areas follows: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 24.6 24.6 Deferred tax asset 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 4.1 0.4 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents 2.0 2.0 Trade and other payables 1.8 1.8 Deferred income 1.6 1.6 Identifiable net assets acquired 2.7 24.4 27.1 Provisional goodwill 22.8 Total consideration 49.9 The goodwill of 22.8m arising from the acquisition of Light Reading relates to the following factors: Existing workforce skills and expertise: Savings on net operating costs by reducing duplication: Acquisition costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2016 amounted to 0.2m.
The business contributed 5.3m of revenue and profit after tax of 0.4m for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2016.
If the acquisition had completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 14.0m of revenue and 1.9m ofprofit after tax to the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
156 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Finovate Group, Inc. On 25 April 2016, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Finovate Group, Inc. one of the premier event companies inthe Fintech innovation space in the US.
The Company will form part of the Knowledge & Networking segment.
Total consideration was 21.0m $30.6m of which 13.4m $19.6m was paid in cash at closing, net of cash acquired of 0.8m $1.1m and 0.4m $0.5m of deferred consideration was paid in the year, with contingent and deferred consideration amounts payable of 6.4m $9.4m.
Theprovisional amounts recognised in respect of the estimated fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed areas follows: Fair value Book value adjustments Fair value m m m Intangible assets 5.1 5.1 Trade and other receivables 0.4 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 0.8 Trade and other payables Deferred income 1.5 1.5 Deferred tax liabilities 3.9 3.9 Identifiable net assets acquired 0.3 1.2 0.9 Provisional goodwill 20.1 Total consideration 21.0 The goodwill of 20.1m arising from the acquisition of Finovate Group relates to the following factors: Existing workforce skills and expertise: Savings on net operating costs by reducing duplication: Acquisition costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2016 amounted to 2.7m.
The business contributed 5.0m of revenue and profit after tax of 0.9m for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2016.
If the acquisition had completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 7.2m of revenue and 0.9m ofprofit after tax to the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
OTHER BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2016 On 14 June 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Eurovir SAS, a European medical events business.
The Company will form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
Total consideration was 6.8m EUR 9.0m of which 2.8m EUR 3.8m waspaid in cash, net of cash acquired of 2.4m EUR 3.1m and there are deferred and contingent consideration amounts payable of1.6m EUR 2.1m.
On 9 August 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Market Rates Insight, Inc. a US-based company providing financial institutions with comprehensive market intelligence on deposits, loans and fees.
The Company will form part of the Business Intelligence segment.
Total consideration was 3.1m $4.1m of which 2.7m $3.6m was paid in cash, and there are deferred consideration amounts payable of 0.4m $0.5m.
On 31 August 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Xconomy, Inc. a US-based company providing market intelligence on business, life sciences and technology.
Total consideration was 2.5m $3.6m of which 0.7m $1.3m was paid in cash, net of cash acquired of 0.3m $0.3m, and there are deferred and contingent consideration amounts payable of 1.5m $2.0m.
On 4 October 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Co-Action Publishing AB, a Swedish based publishing company.
The Company will form part of the Academic Publishing segment.
Total consideration was 3.9m of which 3.2m was paidin cash, net of cash acquired of 0.3m, and there are deferred consideration amounts payable of 0.4m.
On 16 October 2016, the Group acquired 60% of the issued share capital of Chengdu Weiner Meibo Exhibition Co. Ltd, a beauty exhibition business in Chengdu, China.
The Group has an option to purchase a further 20% from 2020.
The Company will form part ofthe Global Exhibitions segment.
Total consideration was 2.1m CNY 18.0m of which 1.3m CNY 10.9m was paid in cash, netofcash acquired of 0.4m CNY 3.5m, and there are deferred consideration amounts payable of 0.4m CNY 3.6m.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 18 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED On 25 November 2016, the Group acquired 60% of the issued share capital of Shanghai Yingye Exhibitions Co. Ltd which controls theassets of China Shanghai International Floor Industry Exhibition and China Shanghai International Mortar Technology and Equipment Exhibition.
The business operates exhibitions and conferences in China for the Floor Industry and for Mortar Technology and Equipment.
Total consideration was 4.0m CNY 32.8m of which 1.9m CNY 16.0m was paid in cash, net of cash acquired of 0.1m CNY 0.4m, and there were deferred contingent consideration payments of 2.0m CNY 16.4m.
UPDATE ON CONSIDERATION PAID IN 2016 RELATING TO BUSINESS COMBINATIONS COMPLETED IN PRIOR YEARS During 2016 contingent and deferred consideration cash payments of 4.7m were made relating to acquisitions completed in prior years.
19 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATE The Groups investment in joint ventures and associate at 31 December 2016 are as follows: Country of Class of incorporation shares Share Accounting Company Division and operation held holding year end Lloyds Maritime Information Services Limited Business Intelligence UK Ordinary 50% 31 December Independent Materials Handling Exhibitions Limited Global Exhibitions UK Ordinary 50% 31 December Informa Tharawat LLC Global Exhibitions State of Qatar Ordinary 49% 31 December Knowledge & 1 Pestana Management Limited Networking Cyprus Ordinary 49% 31 December 1 Pestana Management Limited is incorporated in Cyprus and operates in Russia.
On 9 February 2016 the Group disposed of its Adam Smith conference business Corporate Communications International Limited.
Consideration was in the form of shares, resulting in the Group taking a 49% shareholding in the acquiring entity, Pestana Management Limited, of which 25% carry voting rights.
An analysis of changes in the carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associate is set out below: 2016 2015 m m At start of year 0.1 0.2 Share of results of joint ventures and associate 0.8 0.1 Shares received in consideration for disposal of Consumer Information business See Note 20.
0.6 At end of year 1.5 0.1 158 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The following represent the aggregate 100% and Group share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Groups joint ventures and associate: 100% of Group 100% of Group results share results share 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Non-current assets 0.1 Current assets 1.9 0.9 0.9 0.5 1.9 0.9 1.0 0.5 Non-current liabilities Current liabilities 0.7 0.4 Net assets 1.9 0.9 0.3 0.1 Operating profit loss 1.7 0.9 0.3 0.1 Finance costs Profit loss before tax 1.7 0.9 0.3 0.1 Tax charge credit 0.2 0.1 0.1 Profit loss after tax 1.5 0.8 0.2 0.1 20 DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES AND OPERATIONS During the year, the Group generated the following net loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations: 2016 2015 Segment m m Corporate Training businesses loan impairment 39.9 Robbins Gioia loan recovery 4.0 Other operations loss gain on disposal 2.6 0.3 Corporate Communications International Limited loss ondisposal Knowledge & Networking 1.3 Consumer Information business profit on disposal Business Intelligence 7.4 Conference businesses in Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands profit on disposal Knowledge & Networking 1.4 Loss profit for the year from disposal of subsidiaries and operations 39.8 9.1 IMPAIRMENT OF LOAN NOTE RECEIVABLE In early 2013 the Group entered into an agreement to sell its five corporate training businesses for a mixture of cash and interest bearing loan notes.
Following the under-performance of these businesses in 2016 with the new owners, the loan and related accrued interest receivable has been fully impaired in the year, leaving a carrying value of nil at 31 December 2016 carrying value at 31 December 2015: 35.7m $51.9m.
This resulted in a total write off charge of 39.9m $51.9m representing 31.4m $40.0m for the fair value ofthe principal loan amount and 8.5m $11.9m for accrued interest recognised in prior periods.
There was also a 4.0m $5.0m recovery from a previously fully provided loan note relating to Robbins Gioia, where there was agreement for recovery and funds werereceived in February 2017.
DISPOSALS MADE IN 2016 On 9 February 2016 the Group disposed of its Adam Smith conference business, Corporate Communications International Limited.
The loss on disposal was 1.3m and the cash disposed with business was 1.2m.
From the date of disposal, this new investment will be accounted for as an Associate using equity accounting.
There were other disposals which resulted in a loss of 2.6m.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 21 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Freehold Leasehold Equipment land and land and fixtures buildings buildings and fittings Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 2.4 9.5 36.4 48.3 1 Additions 3.3 3.9 7.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 Reclassification 0.1 1.1 1.0 Disposals 0.5 2.4 2.9 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 1.1 1.2 Exchange differences 0.6 0.6 At 1 January 2016 2.4 12.3 35.9 50.6 1 Additions 1.0 3.6 4.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1.0 3.6 3.3 7.9 Disposals 0.3 0.5 3.4 4.2 Exchange differences 1.2 5.3 6.5 At 31 December 2016 3.1 17.6 44.7 65.4 Depreciation At 1 January 2015 0.4 4.5 25.9 30.8 Charge for the year 1.4 4.7 6.1 Reclassification Note 17 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.5 2.3 2.8 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 1.0 1.1 Exchange differences 0.5 0.5 At 1 January 2016 0.4 5.3 27.6 33.3 Charge for the year 1.8 4.7 6.5 Disposals 0.1 0.4 2.8 3.3 Exchange differences 0.8 4.0 4.8 At 31 December 2016 0.3 7.5 33.5 41.3 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 2.8 10.1 11.2 24.1 At 31 December 2015 2.0 7.0 8.3 17.3 1 All the 4.6m 2015: 7.2m additions represents cash paid.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment pledged as security over bank loans.
160 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 22 INVENTORY 1 2016 2015 m m Raw materials 0.1 Work in progress pre-publication costs 7.9 7.4 Finished goods and goods for resale 44.5 38.5 52.4 46.0 1 Inventory restated for re-measurement of prior year valuation see note 4.
Write down of inventory during the year amounted to 2.1m 2015: 2.1m.
23 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 1 2016 2015 m m Current Trade receivables 273.3 181.2 Less: provision 31.3 23.2 Trade receivables net 242.0 158.0 Other receivables 25.5 21.4 Prepayments and accrued income 90.6 64.0 Total current 358.1 243.4 Non-current Other receivables 0.5 36.2 Total non-current 358.6 279.6 1 Trade receivables restated for re-measurement of prior year valuation see note 4.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 54 days 2015: 49 days.
The Group has provision policies for its various Divisions which have been determined by reference to past default experience.
Under the normal course of business, the Group does not charge interest on its overdue receivables.
Other current receivables includes 4.0m $5.0m of consideration receivable associated with a loan note related to the prior year disposal of the Robins Gioia business.
In 2016 there was an impairment in relation to the non-current receivable loan notes that were fully impaired in the year.
See Note 20 for further details.
The Groups exposures to credit risk and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 30.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
24 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2016 2015 Note m m Cash at bank and on hand 49.6 34.3 Bank overdrafts 29 9.4 2.0 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 40.2 32.3 The cash at bank and on hand is presented net of the Groups legal right to offset overdrafts.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risks and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 30.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 25 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2016 2015 m m Current Deferred consideration 8.8 3.5 Trade payables 48.7 28.3 Accruals 164.9 139.4 Other payables 24.1 36.7 Total current 246.5 207.9 Non-current Deferred consideration 18.4 Other payables 9.2 5.5 Total non-current 27.6 5.5 274.1 213.4 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 37 days 2015: 32 days.
There are no suppliers who represent more than 10% of the total balance of trade payables in either 2016 or 2015.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame.
Therefore, under the normal course of business, the Group is not charged interest on overdue payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The contingent consideration relates primarily to current year acquisitions including Finovate Group, Inc. Eurovir SAS, Light Reading LLC, Market Rates Insight, Xconomy, Inc, and Chengdu Weiner Meibo Exhibition Co. Ltd.
The contingent consideration will be paid inone to two years.
The acquisition and integration provision of 12.3m at 31 December 2016 relates to amounts incurred but not yet settled associated with the Penton acquisition.
See Note 18 for further details.
The property lease provision represents the estimated excess of rent payable on surplus property leases, plus dilapidation provisions, less rent receivable via sub leases.
The property lease provisions will be fully utilised between one and five years.
See Note 8 for details of items included in restructuring provisions and details of the re-measurement of contingent consideration.
Amounts included within restructuring provisions are expected to be utilised in 2017.
27 DEFERRED TAX Accelerated tax Pensions depreciation Intangibles Note 36 Losses Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 4.2 198.5 2.1 4.0 28.2 160.0 Charge to other comprehensive income for the year 1.2 1.2 Acquisitions 7.8 0.7 0.6 6.5 Charge to profit or loss for the year excluding UK corporation tax rate change 0.6 1.5 4.1 8.2 14.4 Disposals 3.8 3.8 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 6.8 0.1 2.4 4.4 At 1 January 2016 3.5 210.8 0.9 0.7 23.0 182.7 Credit to other comprehensive income for the year 2.0 2.0 Acquisitions 5.5 213.8 7.5 86.5 6.0 119.3 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year excluding UK corporation tax rate change 0.8 11.8 2.9 10.7 3.2 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year arising from UK corporation tax rate change 0.1 4.3 4.2 Deferred tax credit arising from revised treatment of certain non-UK intangible assets 12.1 12.1 Disposals Foreign exchange movements 40.2 0.5 3.3 36.4 At 31 December 2016 2.9 436.6 10.4 90.6 21.6 316.9 163 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 27 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of deferred tax balances for the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
2016 2015 m m Deferred tax liability 329.9 183.3 Deferred tax asset 13.0 0.6 316.9 182.7 Deferred tax assets have been recognised on the basis that, from the current forecast of the Groups entities, it is probable that there will be taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised, offset for reporting purposes jurisdiction by jurisdiction.
Included in deferred tax is an asset relating to tax losses in the Penton business, which can be carried forward for use in future years.
The Directors have concluded that it is probable that there will be sufficient future taxable profits against which these losses can be utilised, taking into account the Groups latest available forecast.
For further details regarding this judgement, please refer to the Groups critical accounting judgement disclosure, contained in Note 3.
Deferred tax has been provided on UK intangible assets in respect of temporary timing differences at the UK rate at which they are expected to reverse.
Deferred Tax has been provided at the rate of 19.25% on all other UK temporary differences.
2 Act 2015 enacted prospective legislation to reduce the main UK Corporation Tax rate to 18%.
The Finance Act 2016 enacted further reductions to the UK main Corporation Tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020, as follows: Year to 31 March 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Corporation Tax Rate 20% 19% 19% 19% 17% At 31 December 2016 the Group has unused tax losses of approximately 289.7m 2015: 36.6m available for offset against future profits of which a deferred tax asset of 90.6m relating to the US has been recognised.
A deferred tax asset of 22.8m 2015: 10.6m has not been recognised due to the unpredictability of future taxable profit streams.
At the reporting date, the aggregate amount of withholding tax on post-acquisition undistributed earnings for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 13.7m 2015: 13.3m.
No liability has been recognised because the Group, being in a position to control the timing of the distribution of intra group dividends, has no intention to distribute intra group dividends in the foreseeable future that would trigger withholding tax.
28 NON-CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES The Group has a number of ongoing tax disputes around the world, and has taken some tax positions where the legislative position is not clear, but are not currently the subject of disputes.
In total, the Group has accrued 13.3m 2015: 15.2m for potential tax liabilities arising from such matters: no more than 5.0m 2015: 4.3m is expected to become payable in the next twelve months, and the balance is held as a non-current liability.
164 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 29 BORROWINGS 2016 2015 Notes m m Current Bank overdraft 24 9.4 2.0 Bank borrowings current 35 9.4 2.0 Private placement loan note $102.0m due December 2017 82.9 Private placement loan note 50.0m due December 2017 42.8 Private placement loan note 40.0m due December 2017 40.0 Private placement fees 0.2 Private placement current 35 165.5 Total current borrowings 174.9 2.0 Non-current Bank borrowings revolving credit facility due October 2020 300.2 359.1 Acquisition facility due March 2018 548.6 Bank borrowing fees 3.7 4.2 Bank borrowings non-current 35 845.1 354.9 Private placement loan note $102.0m due December 2017 68.8 Private placement loan note 50.0m due December 2017 36.8 Private placement loan note 40.0m due December 2017 40.0 Private placement loan note $385.5m due December 2020 313.3 260.2 Private placement loan note $120.0m due October 2022 97.5 81.0 Private placement loan note $130.0m due October 2025 105.7 87.8 Private placement fees 1.3 1.6 Private placement non-current 35 515.2 573.0 Total non-current borrowings 1,360.3 927.9 1,535.2 929.9 There have been no breaches of covenants under the Groups bank facilities and private placement loan notes during the year.
The bank and private placement borrowings are guaranteed by material subsidiaries of the Group.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment and other intangible assets pledged as security over loans.
The Group has issued private placement loan notes amounting to USD 737.5m 2015: USD 737.5m, GBP 40.0m 2015: GBP 40.0m and EUR 50.0m 2015: EUR 50.0m.
As at 31 December 2016, the note maturities ranged between one and nine years 2015: two and ten years, with an average duration of 4.2 years 2015: 5.5 years, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.3% 2015: 4.3%.
The Group maintains the following lines of credit: 900.0m 2015: 900.0m revolving credit facility, of which 300.2m 2015: 359.1m has been drawn down at 31 December 2016.
Interest is payable at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin based on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA: and 548.6m $675.0m Acquisition Facility Agreement for up to 30 months to March 2019, of which 548.6m $675.0m was drawn on31 December 2016.
On 25 January 2017 the Group issued 406.4m $500.0m of private placement loan notes, the proceeds ofwhich were used in January 2017 to repay 406.4m $500.0m of the acquisition facility: 150.0m Term Facilities Agreement is available to be drawn until December 2017, and if drawn, has a final maturity of December 2019. nil was drawn on 31 December 2016: and 165 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 29 BORROWINGS CONTINUED 51.2m 2015: 32.6m comprising a number of bilateral bank uncommitted facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing needs.
Interest is payable at the local base rate plus a margin.
The Group has two bank guarantee facilities comprising in aggregate up to EUR 7.0m 2015: EUR 7.0m, and up to AUD 1.5m 2015:AUD 1.5m.
The effective interest rate as at 31 December 2016 is 2.3% 2015: 3.4%.
The average effective interest rate for the year ended 31December 2016 was 4.1% year ended 31 December 2015: 3.5%.
The Group had committed undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 December 2016 relating to the undrawn amount of the revolving credit facility of 599.9m 2015: 540.9m and the undrawn Term facility agreement of 150.0m.
The Groups exposure to liquidity risk is disclosed in Note 30 g. 30 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Capital risk management Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups management of capital, and the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
TheBoard has established a Treasury Committee which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups financial risk management policies.
The Treasury Committee meets and reports regularly to the Audit Committee on its activities.
The Group Treasury function provides services to the Groups businesses, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group.
These risks include market risk including currency risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk.
The Treasury Committee has put in place policies to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the Group and has set appropriate limits and controls.
These policies provide written principles on funding investments, credit risk, foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits are reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
This Committee is assisted in its oversight roleby Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results ofwhich are reported to the Audit Committee.
In September 2016, the Group entered into a new acquisition debt facility of $675.0m and a Term Facilities Agreement of 150.0m, ofwhich 548.6m $675.0m and nil respectively was drawn down at 31 December 2016.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes borrowings Note 29, cash and cash equivalents Note 24, andequity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital Note 31, reserves and retained earnings.
Cost of capital The Groups Treasury Committee reviews the Groups capital structure on a regular basis and as part of this review, the Committee considers the weighted average cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Gearing ratio The principal financial covenant ratios under the Groups borrowing facilities are maximum net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum EBITDA interest cover of 4.0 times, tested semi-annually.
At 31 December 2016 both financial covenants were comfortably achieved, with the ratio of net debt using average exchange rates to EBITDA of 2.6 times 2.2 times at 31 December 2015.
The ratio of EBITDA to net interest payable in the year ended 31 December 2016 was 11.0 times 2015: 14.9 times.
EBITDA is derived from adjusted operating profit adding back depreciation, amortisation and finance costs.
166 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS B CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 2.
2016 2015 Notes m m Financial assets Trade receivables 23 242.0 158.0 Other receivables 23 26.0 57.6 Cash at bank and on hand 24 49.6 34.3 Total financial assets 317.6 249.9 Financial liabilities Bank overdraft 29 9.4 2.0 Bank borrowings 29 848.8 354.9 Private placement loan notes 29 682.2 573.0 Trade payables 25 48.7 28.3 Accruals 25 164.9 139.4 Other payables 25 33.3 42.2 Deferred consideration 25 27.2 3.5 Contingent consideration 26 21.2 29.9 Total financial liabilities 1,835.7 1,173.2 C MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The Group manages these risks by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating rate debt and currency borrowings using derivatives where necessary.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 30 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED D INTEREST RATE RISK The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets at floating rates but is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The risk is managed by maintaining an appropriate mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap contracts, where necessary.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section of this note.
The following table details financial liabilities by interest category: NonNonFixed Floating interest Total Fixed Floating interest Total Rate rate bearing 2016 rate rate bearing 2015 m m m m m m m m Bank overdraft 9.4 9.4 2.0 2.0 Bank borrowings 848.8 848.8 354.9 354.9 Private placement loan notes 682.2 682.2 573.0 573.0 Trade payables 48.7 48.7 28.3 28.3 Accruals 164.9 164.9 139.4 139.4 Other payables 33.3 33.3 42.2 42.2 Deferred consideration 27.2 27.2 3.5 3.5 Contingent consideration 21.2 21.2 29.9 29.9 682.2 858.2 295.3 1,835.7 573.0 356.9 243.3 1,173.2 Interest rate sensitivity analysis A high percentage of loans are at fixed interest rates hence the Groups interest rate sensitivity would only be affected by the exposure to variable rate debt.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year would have decreased or increased by 8.5m 2015: 3.6m.
E FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The Group is a business with significant net US Dollar USD and net Euro EUR transactions: hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
Allied to the Groups policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Group will usually seek to finance its net investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries functional currencies, primarily EUR and USD.
Thispolicy has the effect of partially protecting the Groups Consolidated Balance Sheet from movements in those currencies to the extent that the associated net assets are hedged by the net foreign currency borrowings.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m USD 346.6 168.0 1,841.9 940.1 EUR 30.4 12.6 82.2 56.1 Other 136.2 45.5 455.6 54.6 513.2 226.1 2,379.7 1,050.8 168 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The foreign currency borrowings of 1,323.1m 2015: 760.7m are used to hedge the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Average rate Closing rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 USD 1.36 1.53 1.23 1.48 EUR 1.23 1.38 1.17 1.36 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis In 2016 the Group received approximately 59% 2015: 55% of its revenues and incurred approximately 48% 2015: 43% of its costs inUSD or currencies pegged to USD.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the USD against the GBP.
In 2016, each $0.01 movement in the USD to GBP exchange rate has a circa 6.5m 2015: 4.4m impact on revenue and a circa 2.9m 2015: 2.0m impact on operating profits.
Offsetting this will be reductions to the value of USD borrowings, interest and tax liabilities.
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
F CREDIT RISK The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables Note 23 and cash and cash equivalents Note 24, which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group based on prior experience and its assessment of the current economic environment.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of assessing creditworthiness of counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Groups exposure and the credit worthiness of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved financial institutions.
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved as part of the Groups treasury policies.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
Non-current other receivables Non-current other receivables arose from disposals made in the current and prior years as disclosed in Note 23.
The Risk Committee reviews these receivables and the credit quality of the counterparties on a regular basis.
Trade receivables Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas and the Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
The Group establishes a provision that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and investments when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The main components of this provision are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The collective loss provision is determined by reference to past default experience.
All customers have credit limits set by credit managers and are subject to standard terms of payment for each division.
As the events division works on a prepaid basis they are not subject to the same credit controls and they have a low bad debt history.
The Group is exposed to normal credit risk and potential losses are mitigated as the Group does not have significant exposure to any single customer.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 30 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Ageing of trade receivables: Gross 2016 Provision 2016 Gross 2015 Provision 2015 m m m m Not past due 111.2 0.7 95.0 0.3 Past due 0 30 days 79.2 43.3 Past due over 31 days 82.9 12.8 42.9 9.8 Books provision see below 17.8 13.1 273.3 31.3 181.2 23.2 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due for payment are generally not considered impaired.
For trade receivables that are more than three months past due for payment, there are debtors with a carrying amount of 20.4m 2015: 7.5m which the Group has not provided for, as there has not been a significant change in the credit quality and the amounts are considered recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
A provision relating to returns on books of 17.8m 2015: 13.1m has been disclosed separately in the table above.
This provision is based on the Groups best estimate of previous seasonal sales and returns trends, and is included as part of the overall provision balance.
Movement in the provision: 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 23.2 26.0 Provision recognised 12.5 3.8 Receivables written off as uncollectible 1.9 2.4 Amounts recovered during the year 2.5 4.2 At 31 December 31.3 23.2 There are no customers who represent more than 10% of the total gross balance of trade receivables in both 2016 and 2015.
G LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, though operationally it is managed by Group Treasury with oversight by the Treasury Committee.
Group Treasury has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and debt facilities, together with continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included inNote 29 is a summary of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal.
Historically and for the foreseeable future the Group has been and is expected to continue to be in a net borrowing position.
The Groups policy is to fulfil its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally GBP, USD and EUR:thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD and EUR cash inflows.
170 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS H LIQUIDITY AND INTEREST RISK TABLES The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below has been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned onthose assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Less Greater Carrying Contractual than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years m m m m m m 31 December 2016 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 317.6 317.6 317.2 0.2 0.2 Variable interest rate instruments 317.6 317.6 317.2 0.2 0.2 31 December 2015 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 213.5 213.5 213.2 0.1 0.2 Variable interest rate instruments 35.7 32.7 32.7 249.2 246.2 245.9 0.1 0.2 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the consolidated balance sheet.
The following tables have been drawn up based on the earliest date on which the Group can settle its financial liabilities.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Less Greater Carrying Contractual than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years m m m m m m 31 December 2016 Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 858.2 867.9 867.9 Fixed interest rate instruments 682.2 839.5 29.6 195.4 381.8 232.7 Trade and other payables 246.9 246.9 237.7 9.2 Deferred consideration 27.2 27.2 8.8 18.4 Contingent consideration 21.2 21.2 16.8 4.4 1,835.7 2,002.7 1,160.8 227.4 381.8 232.7 31 December 2015 Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 356.9 361.4 361.4 Fixed interest rate instruments 573.0 705.9 24.9 170.6 317.1 193.3 Trade and other payables 209.9 209.9 204.4 5.5 Deferred consideration 3.5 3.5 3.5 Contingent consideration 29.9 29.9 14.3 14.2 1.4 1,173.2 1,310.6 608.5 190.3 318.5 193.3 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the consolidated balance sheet.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 31 SHARE CAPITAL Share capital as at 31 December 2016 amounted to 0.8m 2015: 0.6m.
On 11 October 2016, the Group issued 162,234,656 ordinary shares of 0.1p each through a 1-for-4 Rights Issue.
The shares were issued at 4.41 each and raised gross proceeds of 715.5m 701.5m net proceeds after expenses of 14.0m.
Trading in the new shares commenced on 26 October 2016.
The excess of cash received over the nominal value of the shares issued was recorded asshare premium.
The net proceeds were used to part fund the acquisition of the Penton business see Note 18.
On 2 November 2016 the Group issued 12,829,146 ordinary shares to the sellers of the Penton business in part consideration for the sale Consideration Shares.
The number of shares reflected the sterling equivalent of $100.0m divided by the 95 per cent of the volume weighted average closing price per share of Informa shares on the London Stock Exchange for the 10 consecutive trading days ending on the third trading day immediately prior to Closing, converted at the average exchange rate over such 10 consecutive trading day period.
The share premium net of transaction costs is 905.3m at 31 December 2016.
For details of options issued over the Companys shares see Note 10.
2016 2015 m m Issued and fully paid 824,005,051 ordinary shares of 0.1p each 2015: 648,941,249 of 0.1p each 0.8 0.6 Number of Number of Shares Shares 2016 2015 At 1 January 648,941,249 648,941,249 Issue of new shares related to the Rights Issue 162,234,656 Issue of new shares related to consideration for the Penton acquisition 12,829,146 At 31 December 824,005,051 648,941,249 172 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 32 OTHER RESERVES This note provides further explanation for the Other reserves listed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Employee Share Trust Reserves and for shares Merger Other ShareMatch to be issued reserve reserve shares Total m m m m m At 1 January 2015 3.2 496.4 2,152.8 0.3 1,653.5 Share award expense 2.6 2.6 Own shares purchased 0.4 0.4 Transfer of vested LTIPs 1.5 1.5 At 1 January 2016 4.3 496.4 2,152.8 0.7 1,652.8 Shares issued 82.2 82.2 Share award expense 3.9 3.9 Own shares purchased 1.0 1.0 Transfer of vested LTIPs 1.7 0.1 1.6 Put option on acquisition of non-controlling interests 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2016 6.5 578.6 2,154.3 1.6 1,570.8 RESERVE FOR SHARES TO BE ISSUED This reserve relates to LTIPs granted to employees reduced by the transferred and vested awards.
Further information is set out in Note 10.
MERGER RESERVE The merger reserve was created in 2004 from the merger of Informa plc and Taylor & Francis Group plc.
On 2 November 2016, the Group acquired Penton Information Services and the share premium on the shares issued to the vendors has been recorded against the merger reserve in accordance with the Merger Relief rules of the Companies Act 2006.
OTHER RESERVE The other reserve includes the inversion accounting reserve of 2,189.9m, which was created from the new equity structure in May 2014.
EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUST SHARES As at 31 December 2016, the Informa Employee Share Trust EST held 616,187 2015: 737,272 ordinary shares in the Company atacost of 616 and a market value of 4.2m 2015: 4.5m.
At 31 December 2016 the Group held 0.01% 2015: 0.01% of its own called up share capital.
As at 31 December 2016, the ShareMatch scheme held 141,814 ordinary shares in the Company at a market value of 1.0m.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 33 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS The Groups non-controlling interests at 31 December 2016 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Brasil Design Show 45%, 2015: 45%, Chengdu Wiener Meibo Exhibitions Co. Ltd 40%, 2015: N A, Shanghai Yingye Exhibitions Co. Ltd 40%, 2015: N A, Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2%, 2015: 18.2%, Bureau European fide Recherches SA 18.2%, 2015: 18.2%, Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd 15%, 2015: 15%, Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd 15%, 2015: 15%, Design Junction Limited 10%, 2015: 10% and Monaco Yacht Show S. A. M. 10%, 2015: 10%.
34 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 2016 2015 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in Consolidated Income Statement for the year 23.9 19.4 At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2016 2015 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Within one year 24.2 0.7 18.2 0.9 Within two to five years 61.5 1.0 56.6 0.8 After five years 11.4 19.1 97.1 1.7 93.9 1.7 Operating lease payments on land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
174 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 35 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2016 2015 Notes m m Profit before tax 178.3 219.7 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property and equipment 21 6.5 6.1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 17 131.3 112.3 Impairment Goodwill 8 65.8 13.9 Impairment Other intangible assets 8 1.9 Share-based payment 10 3.9 2.6 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 8 7.4 0.3 Loss profit on disposal of businesses 20 39.8 9.1 Loss on disposal of other assets 0.1 Investment income 11 59.5 4.7 Finance costs 12 40.2 30.6 Share of results of joint ventures and associate 19 0.8 0.1 Operating cash inflow before movements in working capital 400.0 371.3 Increase in inventories 6.8 Increase in receivables 64.2 21.0 Increase in payables 86.2 41.7 Movements in working capital 15.2 20.7 Cash generated by operations 415.2 392.0 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT At At 1 January Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2016 Movements Cash flow Difference 2016 m m m m m Cash at bank and on hand 34.3 3.6 18.9 49.6 Overdrafts 2.0 6.7 0.7 9.4 Cash and cash equivalents 32.3 10.3 18.2 40.2 Other loan receivable 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.2 Private placement loan notes due in less than one year 165.7 165.7 Bank loans due in more than one year 359.1 433.0 56.7 848.8 Private placement loan notes due in more than one year 574.6 165.7 107.6 516.5 Bank loan fees 4.2 2.2 1.7 3.7 Private placement fees 1.6 0.5 0.4 1.5 Total 895.3 2.7 441.4 146.0 1,485.4 Included within the cash outflow of 441.4m 2015: inflow of 25.1m is 1,455.9m 2015: 928.9m facility loan repayments, 1,888.9m 2015: 812.0m of facility loan drawn downs, no private placement repayments 2015: 73.3m and no private placement draw downs 2015: 166.5m.
Net debt consists of cash and cash equivalents and includes bank overdrafts, borrowings and other loan note receivables where these are interest bearing and do not relate to deferred contingent arrangements.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 36 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES A CHARGE TO OPERATING PROFIT The charge to operating profit for the year in respect of pensions, including both Defined Benefit and Defined Contribution Schemes was 10.3m 2015: 9.5m.
This consisted of a 0.4m 2015: 0.3m charge to operating profit related to administration costs for the Defined Benefit schemes and a 9.9m charge to operating profit relating to Defined Contribution Schemes 2015: 9.2m.
B DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES STRATEGY The Group operates two Defined Benefit Pension Schemes in the UK, the Informa Final Salary Scheme and the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Group UK Schemes for all qualifying UK employees providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
Additionally, as a result of the Penton acquisition, the Group now has two Defined Benefit Schemes in the US: Penton Media, Inc. Retirement Plan and Penton Media, Inc.
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan the Penton Schemes.
All Schemes the Group Schemes are closed to future accrual.
Contributions to the Group UK Schemes are determined following triennial valuations undertaken by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Contributions to the Penton Schemes are assessed annually following valuations undertaken by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
For the Group UK Schemes, the Defined Benefit Schemes are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Company.
The Trustees are responsible for running the Group UK Schemes in accordance with the Group Schemes Trust Deed and Rules, which sets out their powers.
The Trustees of the Group UK Schemes are required to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries of the Group Schemes.
There is a requirement that one-third of the Trustees are nominated by the members of the Group UK Schemes.
The Trustees of the pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
Neither of the Schemes has any reimbursement rights.
The Groups pension funding policy is to provide sufficient funding, as agreed with the Trustees, to ensure any pension deficit will be addressed to ensure pension payments made to current and future pensioners will be met.
The investment strategies adopted by the Trustees of the Group UK Schemes include some exposure to Index-Linked Gilts and Corporate Bonds.
These assets are held to provide some protection to the Group Schemes funding levels in the event of interest rates falling.
The investment strategies of the Penton Schemes are to maximise plan assets within designated risk and return profiles.
All assets are managed by a third party investment manager according to guidelines established by the Company.
C DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES RISK Through the Group Schemes the Company is exposed to a number of potential risks as described below: Asset volatility: the Group Schemes Defined Benefit obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields, however the Group Schemes invest significantly in equities.
These assets are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, but provide volatility and risk in the short term.
Changes in bond yields: a decrease in corporate bond yields would increase the Group Schemes Defined Benefit obligation, however this would be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk: a significant proportion of the Group Schemes Defined Benefit obligation is linked to inflation, therefore higher inflation will result in a higher defined benefit obligation subject to the appropriate caps in place.
The majority of the Group UK Schemes assets are either unaffected by inflation, or only loosely correlated with inflation, therefore an increase in inflation would also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy: if the Group Schemes members live longer than expected, the Group Schemes benefits will need to be paid for longer, increasing the Group Schemes Defined Benefit obligations.
The Trustees and the Company manage risks in the Group Schemes through the following strategies: Diversification: investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
Investment strategy: the Trustees are required to review their investment strategy on a regular basis.
176 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS There are three categories of Defined Benefit Scheme members: Employed deferred members: currently employed by the Company Deferred members: former employees of the Company Pensioner members: in receipt of pension.
For the Penton Scheme, the Defined Benefit Scheme is administered by Penton Media, Inc. and is subject to the provisions of the Retirement Income Security Act 1974.
The Trustee is required to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries of the Penton Scheme inaccordance with the Scheme Trust Deed and Rules.
The Trustee is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets ofthe fund.
The Scheme has no reimbursement rights.
The Defined Benefit obligation is valued by projecting the best estimate of future benefit payments allowing for future salary increases for employed deferred members, revaluation to retirement for deferred members and annual pension increases for all members and then discounting to the balance sheet date.
The majority of benefits receive increases linked to inflation subject to a cap of no more than 5% p. a. for UK Schemes.
There are no caps on benefits in the Penton schemes.
The approximate overall duration of the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2016 was as follows: 2016 2015 Penton Penton Executive Retirement Retirement Group Group Plan Plan UK Schemes UK Schemes Overall duration 15 14 20 18 Subdivided into: deferred members 17 23 21 Retired members 9 14 13 13 Benefits are not linked to inflation in the Penton Schemes.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation for the schemes are those relating to the discount rate, the rates of increase in price inflation, salaries, and pensions and life expectancy.
The main assumptions adopted are: 2016 % 2015 % Penton Schemes Group UK Schemes Group UK Schemes Discount rate 3.7 2.6 3.8 Rate of price inflation N A 2.4 CPI and 3.4 RPI 2.2 CPI and 3.2 RPI Rate of salary increase employed deferred N A 2.9 3.2 Rate of increase in deferred pensions former employees N A 2.4 2.2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment pensioners N A 2.1 to 3.3 2.0 to 3.1 2016 Years 2015 Years Penton Schemes Group UK Schemes Group UK Schemes Life expectancy: For an individual aged 60 male 85 87 87 For an individual aged 60 female 87 89 89 177 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 36 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED D DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES INDIVIDUAL DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEME DETAILS Informa Final Salary Scheme The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The result of this valuation determines the level ofcontributions payable by the Group.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme was performed by the Scheme Actuary for the Trustees as at 31March 2014.
This valuation revealed a funding shortfall of 0.2m.
Contributions paid since 31 March 2014, in respect of the recovery plan put in place following the 31 March 2011 valuation were in excess of those required to recover the deficit of 0.2m.
Thatrecovery plan has now expired and no further deficit contributions are required.
An actuarial valuation was carried out for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2016 by a qualified independent actuary.
The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000 and closed to future accrual on 1 April 2011.
The Groups contribution over the year was nil 2015: 0.1m.
The Employer expects to pay no contributions to the Scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2017 in respect of the deficit.
The next actuarial valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme is 31 March 2017.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Informa Final Salary Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 2.3m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 5.7m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 3.3m Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The result of this valuation determines the level of contributions payable by the Group.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Taylor & Francis Life Assurance and Pension Scheme was performed by the Scheme Actuary for the Trustees as at 30 September 2014.
This valuation revealed a funding surplus of 1.3m.
No further contributions are currently required.
The Groups contribution over the year was nil 2015: 0.3m.
The Employer expects to pay no contributions to the scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2017 in respect of the deficit.
The next actuarial valuation of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme is 30 September 2017.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 0.5m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 1.2m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 1.0m 178 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Penton Media, Inc. Retirement Plan The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every year.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Penton Scheme was performed by the Scheme Actuary for the Trustees as at 31 December 2016.
The Employer expects to pay no contributions during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2017, withthe Actuarial Value of Assets exceeding the plans funding target.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Penton Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 0.7m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 0.6m Penton Media, Inc.
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every year.
The Employer expects to pay no contributions to the Scheme during the accounting year beginning 1January 2017.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Penton Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by nil Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by nil E AMOUNTS RECOGNISED Amounts recognised in respect of these Defined Benefit Schemes are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Recognised in profit before tax Current service cost Administration cost 0.4 0.3 Net interest cost on net deficit 0.2 0.3 Total 0.6 0.6 2016 2015 m m Recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Actual return less expected return on Scheme assets 11.1 1.1 Experience gain 2.4 2.0 Change in demographic actuarial assumptions 2.1 Change in financial actuarial assumptions 25.7 5.1 Actuarial loss gain 14.3 6.0 179 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 36 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED E AMOUNTS RECOGNISED CONTINUED 2016 2015 m m Movement in deficit during the year Deficit in Schemes at beginning of the year 4.0 10.1 New Schemes from Penton acquisition 19.6 Contributions 0.4 Net finance cost 0.2 0.3 Actuarial loss gain 14.3 6.0 Effect of movement in foreign currencies 0.1 Deficit in Schemes at end of the year 38.0 4.0 The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in respect of the Group Schemes are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Present value of Defined Benefit obligations 184.4 106.7 Fair value of Scheme assets 146.4 102.7 Deficit in Schemes and liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 38.0 4.0 Changes in the present value of Defined Benefit obligations are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Opening present value of Defined Benefit obligation 106.7 112.0 New Schemes from Penton acquisition 52.5 Interest cost 4.0 3.9 Benefits paid 3.8 2.1 Actuarial loss gain 25.4 7.1 Effect of movement in foreign currencies 0.4 Closing present value of Defined Benefit obligation 184.4 106.7 Changes in the fair value of Scheme assets are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Opening fair value of Scheme assets 102.7 101.9 New Schemes from Penton acquisition 32.9 Expected return on Scheme assets 3.8 3.6 Actuarial gain loss 11.1 1.1 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 0.4 Benefits paid 3.8 2.1 Effect of movement in foreign currencies 0.3 Closing fair value of Scheme assets 146.4 102.7 The assets of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme include assets held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited, Zurich Assurance Limited, Partners Group AG, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited, Standard Life Investments and Insight Investment Management Limited.
180 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The assets of the Informa Final Salary Scheme include assets held in managed funds and cash funds operated by BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited, Partners Group AG, Zurich Assurance Limited, Standard Life Investments and Insight Investment Management Limited.
The assets of the Penton Scheme include assets held in managed funds and cash funds operated by New York Life Insurance Company, BlackRock Institutional Trust Company NA, Invesco Asset Management Limited, and others.
The fair value of the assets held are as follows: Taylor & 31 December 2016 Francis Informa Penton Total Equities 11.9 42.3 21.5 75.7 Bonds 2.5 8.6 1.3 12.4 Cash 0.2 1.5 1.7 Property 3.2 7.9 11.1 Diversified Growth Fund 5.4 18.9 24.3 Other 2.9 8.7 9.6 21.2 Total 26.1 87.9 32.4 146.4 Taylor & 31 December 2015 Francis Informa Total Equities 8.2 35.3 43.5 Bonds 6.4 15.2 21.6 Cash 0.1 0.6 0.7 Property 3.3 9.3 12.6 Diversified Growth Fund 5.4 18.9 24.3 Total 23.4 79.3 102.7 All the assets listed above have a quoted market price in an active market.
The Group Schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The actual return on plan assets was 15.0m 2015: 2.5m.
37 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associate are disclosed below.
The following transactions and arrangements are those which are considered to have had a material effect on the financial performance and position of the Group for the year.
TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS There were no material transactions with Directors of the Company during the year, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, Executives below the level of the Companys Board are not regarded as related parties.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages91 to 106 and Note 9.
TRANSACTIONS WITH JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATE During the period the Group received revenue of nil 2015: nil from Lloyds Maritime Information Services Limited, a joint venture.
During the period the Group received revenue of 0.1m from Pestana Management Limited, an associate.
During the period the Group received revenue of 1.8m 2015: nil from Independent Materials Handling Exhibitions Limited, a joint venture.
OTHER RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES At 31 December 2016, the Group has guaranteed the pension scheme liability of 38.0m 2015: 4.0m see Note 36.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 38 SUBSIDIARIES The listing below shows the subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2016.
Ordinary Registered Company Name Country shares held Office Informa Limited Hong Kong 100% HK2 Taylor & Francis Books India Pvt Limited India 100% IN2 Informa Healthcare AS Norway 100% NO1 Taylor & Francis S Pte Limited Singapore 100% SG1 Co-Action Publishing AB Sweden 100% SE1 Taylor & Francis AB Sweden 100% SE1 Afterhurst Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Ashgate Publishing Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Cogent OA Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Gower Training Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Maney Publishing Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Pickering And Chatto Publishers Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Psychology Press New Co Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Routledge Books Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Taylor & Francis Books Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Taylor & Francis Group Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Taylor & Francis Publishing Services Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 W S Maney & Son Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Taylor & Francis Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC United States 100% US14 Datamonitor Pty Limited Australia 100% AU1 Ovum Pty Limited Australia 100% AU1 Agra CEAS Consulting - Bureau Europeen fide Recherches S. A. Belgium 82% BE1 Informa Economics FNP Consultoria Ltda Brazil 100% BR4 Instituto FNP Brazil 55% BR4 3108155 Canada Inc. Canada 100% CA1 iNet Interactive Canada, Inc. Canada 100% CA1 Penton Media Canada, Inc. Canada 100% CA1 F. O. Licht  Verlag Und Marktforschung Gmbh Germany 100% GE3 Datamonitor Publications Hk Limited Hong Kong 100% HK1 Informa Global Markets Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100% HK1 Penton Media Asia Limited Hong Kong 100% HK3 NND Biomedical Data Systems Private Limited India 100% IN1 Informa Global Markets Japan Limited Japan 100% JA1 Penton Media Mexico S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico 100% ME1 Informa Global Markets Singapore Private Limited Singapore 100% SG1 Marketworks Datamonitor Pty Limited South Africa 100% ZA1 Agra Ceas Consulting Limited United Kingdom 82% UK1 Agra Informa Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 182 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com Business Intelligence Academic Publishing STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Ordinary Registered Company Name Country shares held Office Datamonitor Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Ebenchmarkers Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Global Markets Europe Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Telecoms & Media Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 MRO Exhibitions Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 MRO Network Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 MRO Publications Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Penton Communications Europe Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 TU-Autmotive Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 TU-Automotive Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Duke Communications International, Inc. United States 100% US1 Duke Investments, Inc. United States 100% US2 DVGM & Associates United States 100% US2 Farm Progress Companies, Inc. United States 100% US3 Farm Progress Holding Company, Inc. United States 100% US3 Farm Progress Insurance Services, Inc. United States 100% US3 Indiana Prairie Farmer Insurance Services, Inc. United States 100% US3 iNet Interactive, LLC United States 100% US4 Informa Business Intelligence, Inc. United States 100% US5 Informa DataSources, Inc United States 100% US6 Internet World Media, Inc. United States 100% US10 Market Rates Insight, Inc. United States 100% US12 Ovum, Inc. United States 100% US6 Penton Business Media Holdings, Inc. United States 100% US2 Penton Business Media Internet, Inc. United States 100% US2 Penton Business Media Publications, Inc. United States 100% US2 Penton Business Media, Inc. United States 100% US13 Penton Media, Inc. United States 100% US10 Penton Operating Holdings, Inc. United States 100% US2 Rural Press USA Limited United States 100% US3 Rural Press USA, Inc. United States 100% US3 The Miller Publishing Company, Inc. United States 100% US3 Informa Fashion Pty Limited Australia 100% AU2 Informa Trade Events Pty Limited Australia 100% AU2 Informa Middle East Limited Bermuda 100% BM1 The Superyacht Cup Limited Bermuda 100% BM1 Brasil Design Show - Eventos, Midias, Consultorias, Brazil 100% BR1 Treinamentos e Participacoes Ltda BTS Informa Feiras Eventos e Editora Ltda Brazil 100% BR2 Informa Canada Inc. Canada 100% CA1 Chengdu Wiener Meibo Exhibitions Co. Ltd. China 60% CH1 183 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Global Exhibitions FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 38 SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED Ordinary Registered Company Name Country shares held Office Informa Exhibitions Beijing Co. Ltd. China 100% CH4 Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd. China 85% CH5 Shanghai Meishing Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd. China 85% CH6 Shanghai Yingye Exhibitions Co, Ltd China 60% CH7 Informa Egypt LLC Egypt 100% EG1 Euromedicom SAS France 100% FR1 Eurovir SAS France 100% FR1 International Trade Exhibition Company France SAS France 100% FR1 Itec Edition Sarl France 100% FR1 Informa Monaco Sam Monaco 100% MC1 Monaco Yacht Show SAM Monaco 90% MC1 IIR Exhibitions Philippines Inc Philippines 100% PH1 Informa Saudi Arabia LLC Saudi Arabia 100% SA1 Informa Exhibitions Pte Limited Singapore 100% SG1 Informa Middle East Media FZ LLC United Arab Emirates 100% UAE1 Brick Shows Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Cityscape Exhibitions Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Design Junction Limited United Kingdom 90% UK1 E-Health Media Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 IIR Exhibitions Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 IIR Management Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 IIR U. K. Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Final Salary Pension Trustee Company Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Exhibitions Holding Corp. United States 100% US7 Informa Exhibitions U. S. Construction & Real Estate Inc. United States 100% US8 Informa Exhibitions, LLC United States 100% US7 Informa Life Sciences Exhibitions, Inc. United States 100% US6 Informa Pop Culture Events, Inc. United States 100% US6 IIR Pty Limited Australia 100% AU1 Euroforum GmbH Austria 100% AT1 IIR Informa Seminarios Ltda Brazil 100% BR3 Light Reading Canada, Inc. Canada 100% CA2 IBC Conferences And Event Management Services Shanghai Co. Ltd. China 100% CH2 Ebd Group Gmbh Germany 100% GE1 Euroforum Deutschland SE Germany 100% GE2 Informa Deutschland Gmbh Germany 100% GE2 Informa Holding Germany Gmbh Germany 100% GE2 Lesbistes BV Netherlands 100% NE2 EBD Gmbh Switzerland 100% SW1 Euroforum Schweiz AG Switzerland 100% SW2 184 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com Knowledge & Networking Global Exhibitions STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Ordinary Registered Company Name Country shares held Office BVO Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 I. I. R. Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Light Reading UK Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Knect365 US, Inc. United States 100% US11 Informa Enterprise Management Shanghai Co. Ltd. China 100% CH3 Informa European Financial Shared Service Centre Gmbh Germany 100% GE2 Informa Switzerland Limited Jersey 100% JE1 Institute For International Research I. I. R. BV Netherlands 100% NE1 IIR South Africa BV Netherlands 100% NE1 Informa Europe BV Netherlands 100% NE2 Informa Finance BV Netherlands 100% NE2 IBC Asia S Pte Limited Singapore 100% SG1 Informa Finance Gmbh Switzerland 100% SW1 Informa IP Gmbh Switzerland 100% SW1 IBC Ten Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 IBC Twelve Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 IBC Fourteen Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 IBC Informa Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Exhibitions Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Finance UK Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Finance USA Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Group Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Group Plc United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Investment Plan Trustees Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Overseas Investments Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Quest Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Six Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Three Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa UK Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa US Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 LLP Limited United Kingdom 100% UK1 Informa Academic And Business, LLC United States 100% UK1 Informa Export, Inc. United States 100% US6 Informa Global Sales, Inc United States 100% US6 Informa Support Services, Inc. United States 100% US6 Informa USA Inc. United States 100% US9 185 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Group
