162 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Due to the technical nature of satellite COMMISSIONED TERMINAL GEOSTATIONARY ORBIT communications and financial reporting we use a A terminal that is registered with one of our services A circular geosynchronous orbit directly above the number of terms and abbreviations in this Annual at the period end.
Satellites in geosynchronous orbit Report and Accounts that are widely used within match their orbit to the orbit of the earth and so those industries but are less commonly used by our CAGR remain permanently in the same area of the sky.
The principal ones are summarised below.
The Compound Annual Rate of Growth measures GLOBAL XPRESS GX average annual growth over a period of time and is a key performance indicator for our MSS Services offered by Inmarsat using Inmarsat's A wholesale revenues.
GlobalXpress is the first high-speed broadband ACTIVE TERMINAL CGU satellite network to span the globe, from a single A terminal that has been used to access operator.
It uses powerful beams able to reach A cash-generating unit is the smallest group commercial services except certain handheld small antennas on earth providing digital of assets that generates cash inflows largely terminals at any time during the preceding connections for aviation, land and maritime use.
independently from the other parts of the business 12 months and is registered with one of our and which represents the lowest level at which services at the period end.
It includes the GMDSS goodwill is monitored within the business.
average number of certain handheld terminals Global Maritime Distress and Safety Service which active on a daily basis during the final month of THE COMPANY is a system designed to automate a vessels radio a period and excludes M2M terminals.
distress alert, eliminating the need for manual Where we refer to the Company we are referring to watchkeeping of distress channels.
Inmarsat is the ALPHASAT Inmarsat plc, the holding company of the only approved provider of this Maritime Safety Inmarsat Group.
A satellite developed with the European Space Service by the International Maritime Organization Agency and launched in 2013.
D GROUND STATIONS ATC DEFINED BENEFIT AND DEFINED Our Ground Stations connect Inmarsat satellites CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES Ancillary Terrestrial Components provide to terrestrial networks and the internet.
They are communications services from ground stations Defined benefit pensions schemes provide manned 24 7 in locations across the globe and either as stand-alone services or to complement post-employment benefits based on an continuously monitored from our network satellite services.
Defined contribution operations centre in London.
pension schemes are schemes into which ATG ALSO CGC Inmarsat makes fixed contributions based THE GROUP on a percentage of an employees salary.
For our European Aviation Network, the satellite The Group refers to Inmarsat plc and all of its and CGC components are integrated and the CGC subsidiaries.
We may also use we and our in E is not stand alone.
ATG means the air to ground reference to the Group, depending on the context.
terrestrial component of the EAN.
EBITDA GSPS B Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and Global Satellite Phone Services are our handheld amortisation is a key performance indicator used in products and services including IsatPhone Pro and BANDWIDTH the commercial and financial management of the IsatPhone 2. business.
It is a non-GAAP measure under IFRS.
The radio spectrum is divided into different bands which each cover a section of frequencies that I F are usually used for a similar purpose.
Bands are allocated to specific uses at international level by IAS OR IFRS FLEETBROADBAND the ITU and regulated at a national level by International Accounting Standards or domestic organisations and governments.
Our flagship maritime service providing voice International Financial Reporting Standards and broadband data services across the are the accounting standards issued by the BGAN worlds oceans.
IFRS is Broadband Global Area Network is a high-speed also used to refer to international GAAP as a whole.
G data satellite network that spans the globe.
ICAO GAAP C International Civil Aviation Organization.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles is the CASH CAPITAL EXPENDITURE standard financial reporting framework as defined by a body of accounting standards and other Cash capital expenditure is the cash flow relating guidance used in a given jurisdiction see IFRS.
to tangible and intangible asset additions, it includes capitalised labour costs and excludes capitalised interest.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 163 INMARSAT-2 I-2, INMARSAT-3 I-3, MSS SEP INMARSAT GATEWAY INMARSAT-4 I-4, INMARSAT-5 I-5, Mobile Satellite Services.
Our Service Enablement Platform for GX delivering INMARSAT-6 I-6 customer support, network services and an app The second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth MBPS store, it also opens up our networks to innovators generations of Inmarsat satellites.
This is also now Megabits per second are the units used to satellites in each constellation are numbered F1, referred to as the Inmarsat Gateway.
measure data transfer rates in the satellite F2, F3, etc, so I-5 F2 refers to the second satellite communications industry.
launched in the fifth generation of Inmarsat satellites.
SWIFTBROADBAND A global service providing voice and high-speed N ITU data simultaneously through a single installation International Telecommunications Union.
NETWORK AND SATELLITE OPERATIONS COSTS K T The costs of operating our ground stations.
KA-BAND TLCOMS SANS FRONTIRES TSF O Downlink frequencies between 18GHz and 22GHz The telecommunications relief aid organisation, and uplink frequencies between 27GHz and 31GHz.
it is a core beneficiary of our charitable support.
OWN WORK CAPITALISED Often referred to as 20 30GHz.
This is the frequency Employee-related costs including salary and travel band used by our GX satellites, it has higher TERMINALS costs incurred in bringing property, plant and bandwidth than other bands allowing more data The consumer hardware used to receive and equipment into use.
Own work capitalised is to be transmitted over the same satellite capacity.
transmit voice and data from earth across our capitalised as part of the total cost of an asset.
It includes antenna enabled KU-BAND hardware such as satellite phones and onR Downlink frequencies between 10.7GHz and board antennas.
12.74GHz and uplink frequencies between RIGNET INC 13.75GHz and 14.8GHz.
Often referred to as 11 14 or V A distribution partner and the company that 12 14GHz.
This is the frequency band used by a acquired the retail energy business that we number of our products and services that we VSAT disposed of in 2014. procure from other satellite network operators to Very Small Aperture Terminals are small mobile complement our own spectrum.
two-way satellite antennas able to receive and S transmit voice and broadband data to a satellite.
L VSAT services are typically charged using a fixed SAS monthly fee.
L-BAND Satellite Access Station is another term for a Ground Station.
Uplink and downlink frequencies between satellites X and mobile users between 1.5 GHz and 1.6 GHz.
S-BAND This is the frequency band used by our Inmarsat-3 XPRESSLINK and Inmarsat-4 satellites and also by our planned A mobile satellite band between 2 and 2.5GHz, XpressLink is a fully-integrated Ku-band and Inmarsat-6 satellites.
which we are using for a high-speed broadband L-band service with VSAT and FleetBroadband service under development for the EU aviation terminals for maritime end-users.
The programme will see an Inmarsat S-band satellite fully integrated with a ground A Cooperation Agreement between Inmarsat network.
We also use the term S-band to refer and Ligado Networks formerly LightSquared LP, to the S-band programme in general.
Skyterra Canada Inc. and LightSquared Inc. for the use of L-band in North America.
SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS M Carbon emissions as defined by the greenhouse gas protocol.
M2M Scope 1: All direct greenhouse gas emissions.
Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heat or steam.
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions including travel.
TC Comms is included in the results from 8 May 2013.
Globe Wireless is included in the results from 1 January 2014.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017 4 May Annual General Meeting 20 April Ex-dividend date for 2016 final dividend 21 April Record date for 2016 final dividend 27 May 2016 final dividend payment date August 2017 interim results October 2017 interim dividend payment REGISTERED OFFICE AUDITOR BROKERS REGISTRARS 99 City Road Deloitte LLP J. P. Morgan Cazenove Equiniti Limited London EC1Y 1AX 2 New Street Square 25 Bank Street PO Box 4630 Tel: 44 0 20 7728 1000 London EC4A 3BZ London E14 5JP Aspect House Fax: 44 0 20 7728 1044 Spencer Road Credit Suisse www.
com Lancing SOLICITORS 1 Cabot Square West Sussex BN99 6DA London E14 4QJ Clifford Chance LLP REGISTERED NUMBER 10 Upper Bank Street 4886072 England and Wales London E14 5JJ CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
These factors include: general economic and business conditions: changes in technology: timing or delay in signing, commencement, implementation and performance of programmes, or the delivery of products or services under them: structural change in the satellite industry: relationships with customers: competition: and ability to attract personnel.
You are cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report.
Inmarsat undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in its expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances, except where it would be required to do so under applicable law.
Designed and produced by Gather www.
london The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources.
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Inmarsat plc 99 City Road London EC1Y 1AX United Kingdom INMARSAT.
