STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The standard sets out the requirements for recognising revenue from 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION contracts with customers, and will supersede the current revenue recognition Inmarsat plc the Company or, together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a guidance including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the company incorporated in the United Kingdom and domiciled in England and related interpretations.
The address of its registered office is 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX, IFRS 15 will require the Group to apportion revenue earned from contracts United Kingdom.
to each deliverable that qualifies as a performance obligation.
The total transaction price must be allocated to each performance obligation on 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES a relative stand-alone selling price basis, based on a five-step model.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial IFRS 15 contains guidance on a variety of areas, many of which are relevant to statements are set out below.
These policies have been applied consistently to the Group, including determining the relevant contract for IFRS 15 purposes, all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
how to account for transactions in the indirect sales channel such as wholesale transactions, agent versus principal considerations, unbundling of contracts BASIS OF PREPARATION that contain more than one performance obligation, assessing when control These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with passes to a customer and identifying costs to obtain and fulfil contracts.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Management is currently undergoing a detailed review of the impact of European Union, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS adopting IFRS 15.
An area which is likely to be impacted for the Group is Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical breakage, where applying IFRS 15 is expected to result in the earlier recognition cost convention except for certain financial instruments that have been of breakage revenues for quarterly, semi-annual and annual allowance plans.
measured at fair value, as described later in these accounting policies.
Based on the findings of the review, neither this area nor any other is expected to result in material changes to the financial statements in future periods.
GOING CONCERN When IFRS 15 is adopted, it can be applied either on a fully retrospective basis, The Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash flow requiring the restatement of the comparative periods presented in the financial generation and is compliant with all banking covenants.
Because of this, the statements, or with the cumulative retrospective impact of IFRS 15 applied as Directors believe that the Company and the Group are well-placed to manage an adjustment to equity on the date of adoption.
The Group currently intends its business risks successfully.
After considering current financial projections to adopt the full retrospective approach and from 1 January 2018 will show and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a comparative figures for the December 2017 financial year under IFRS 15. reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
IFRS 16 Leases Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 16 Leases will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The standard sets out requirements Further discussion of the Groups business activities, together with factors likely for recognising assets and liabilities in respect of leases, and will supersede the to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the existing accounting guidance in IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations.
Strategic Report which encompasses the Chairmans review, the Chief Executives review, the Financial review and the viability statement on pages 1 to 55.
IFRS 16 will primarily change lease accounting for lessees: lease agreements will give rise to the recognition of an asset representing the right to use the BASIS OF ACCOUNTING leased item and a loan obligation for future lease payables.
Lease costs will be recognised in the form of depreciation of the right to use asset and The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is interest on the lease liability.
Lessee accounting under IFRS 16 will be similar the functional currency of the Company and most of the Groups subsidiaries.
to existing IAS 17 accounting for finance leases, but will be substantively The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with different for operating leases where rental charges are currently recognised IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect on straight-line basis and no lease asset or lease loan obligation is recognised.
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is similar to existing IAS 17 accounting.
revenue and expenses during the year.
Although these estimates are based The Group is assessing the impact of the accounting changes that will arise on managements best estimate of the amount, event or actions, the actual under IFRS 16: however, the changes are expected to have a material impact results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
Further discussion on these on the consolidated income statement being a reclassification between estimates and assumptions are disclosed in note 4. operating expenses and depreciation charge and the consolidated balance sheet the recognition of a right of use asset and lease liability.
ACCOUNTING POLICY CHANGES The Group has not yet decided whether to adopt IFRS 16 when IFRS 15 is New and amended accounting standards adopted by the Group adopted, on 1 January 2018, or on 1 January 2019.
There are no new IFRS or IFRIC Interpretations that are effective for this IFRS 9 Financial Instruments financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will be effective for periods beginning on or after New and amended accounting standards that have been issued but are 1 January 2018 and supersedes IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and not yet effective and have not been early adopted Measurement.
The standard will impact the classification and measurement of the Groups financial instruments and will require certain additional disclosures.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers The changes to recognition and measurement of financial instruments and changes to hedge accounting rules are not currently considered likely to have IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers will be effective for periods any major impact on the Groups current accounting treatment or hedging beginning on or after 1 January 2018, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The Group has not yet decided whether to early adopt IFRS 9.
118 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Company and all its subsidiaries, and incorporate the share of the results of When the Group acquires a business, it identifies the assets and liabilities of associates using the equity method of accounting.
the acquiree at the date of acquisition and measures them at fair value.
Only separately identifiable intangible assets are recognised.
Any assets or disposal The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the groups held for sale at the acquisition date are measured at fair value less costs period are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of to sell.
establishment or acquisition of control.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal.
Where Consideration is the fair value at the acquisition date of the assets transferred necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries and liabilities incurred in acquiring the business and includes the fair value of to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Changes in fair value of contingent consideration All transactions, balances, income and expenses with and between subsidiary after the acquisition date are recognised in the income statement.
 have been eliminated on consolidation.
related costs are expensed as incurred and included in operating costs.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries which Goodwill is initially measured at cost as the difference between the fair value of consist of the amounts of those interests at the date of the original business the consideration for the acquisition and fair value of the net identifiable assets combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity acquired, including any intangible assets other than goodwill.
If the assessment since the date of the combination, are not material to the Groups of goodwill results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the financial statements.
aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Proxy Board arrangement accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs The US Government element of Inmarsats Government business unit that are expected to benefit from the business combination, irrespective of is managed through the US trading entity, Inmarsat Government Inc. whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group.
The business is managed through a Proxy agreement as required by the US National Industrial Security FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Program NISP.
The functional currency of the Company and most of the Groups subsidiaries A Proxy agreement is an instrument intended to mitigate the risk of foreign and the presentation currency of the Group is US Dollar, as the majority of ownership, control or influence when a foreign person owns, acquires or merges operational transactions are denominated in US Dollars.
with a US entity that has a facility security clearance under the NISP.
The Proxy agreement conveys the foreign owners voting rights to the Proxy Holders, Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using comprised of the Proxy board.
There are three Proxy holders who are US the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange citizens cleared and approved by the US Defence Security Service DSS.
gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and the The DSS requires Inmarsat Government Inc. to enter into a Proxy agreement translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies because it is indirectly owned by the Group and it has contracts with the at period end exchange rates are recognised in the income statement line Department of Defence which contain certain classified information.
The Proxy which most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transactions.
agreement enables Inmarsat Government Inc. to participate in such contracts with the US Government despite being owned by a non-US corporation.
REVENUE Under the Proxy agreement, the Proxy holders have the power to exercise all Mobile satellite communications services revenue results from utilisation privileges of share ownership of Inmarsat Government Inc.
In addition, as a charges that are recognised as revenue in the period during which the services result of the Proxy agreement, certain limitations are placed on the information are provided.
Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite communications which may be shared, and the interaction which may occur, between Inmarsat services or subscription fees represents the unearned balances remaining from Government Inc. and other Group companies.
amounts received from customers pursuant to prepaid contracts.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time as the customer uses The Group maintains its involvement in Inmarsat Government Inc. s activities the airtime, or the credit expires.
The Group also enters into minimum spend through normal business activity and liaison with the Chair of the Proxy Board.
contracts with customers, known as take-or-pay contracts, whereby Inmarsat Government Inc. s commercial and governance activity is included customers agree to purchase a minimum amount of mobile satellite in the business update provided in regular Executive reports to the Board.
communications services over a fixed period.
Any unused portion of the This activity is always subject to the confines of the Proxy regime to ensure prepaid contracts or the take-or-pay contracts breakage is recognised that it meets the requirement that Inmarsat Government Inc. must conduct its in revenue in line with service provision when reasonable assurance as to the business affairs without external control or influence, and the requirements breakage amount exists, or otherwise when the contract expires.
Mobile satellite necessary to protect the US national security interest.
communications services lease revenues are recorded on a straight-line basis In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, an assessment over the term of the contract concerned, which is typically between one and 12 is required to determine the degree of control or influence the Group exercises months, unless another systematic basis is deemed more appropriate.
and the form of any control to ensure that the financial statement treatment Revenue also includes income from spectrum coordination agreements such is appropriate.
On the basis of the Groups ability to affect the financial and as Ligado Networks, services contracts, other communications services and operating policies of the entity, we have concluded that the Group meets the income from the sale and installation of terminals and other communication requirements of IFRS 10 in respect of control over the entity and, therefore, equipment.
Revenue from spectrum coordination agreements is recognised consolidates the entity in the Groups consolidated accounts.
using the percentage of completion or straight-line approach depending on the underlying terms of the agreement.
Revenue from service contracts is recognised as the service is provided.
Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when the risks and rewards of STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 119 ownership are transferred to the purchaser.
Revenue from installation of Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has the terminals and other communication equipment is recognised when the unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months installation is completed.
after the balance sheet date.
The Group offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable Convertible Bonds arrangements.
Multi-deliverable arrangements are divided into separate units of accounting provided: 1 the deliverable has a stand-alone value to The Group has issued Convertible Bonds which are net share settled the customer if it is sold separately: and 2 the fair value of the item can be instruments, meaning upon conversion the Group will repay the principal objectively and reliably determined.
Consideration for these items is measured in cash and satisfy the remaining conversion value in ordinary shares of the and allocated to each separate unit based on their relative fair values and the Company if the market value of the Companys shares at settlement date relevant revenue recognition policies are applied to them.
Upon issuance, in accordance with IAS 32 the instrument is bifurcated between a cash debt component and a derivative FINANCING INCOME AND FINANCING COST liability component.
The debt component meets the definition of net borrowings and over the term of the bond will accrete up to the principal value Financing income comprises interest receivable on funds invested in of the bond with the cost of that accretion recognised in net financing costs.
The derivative liability represents the value of the conversion rights associated Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings including the Senior with the instrument and is accounted for at fair value through profit and loss.
Notes and Convertible Bonds, accretion of the liability component of the It is excluded from net borrowings with the mark-to-market movements Convertible Bonds, amortisation of deferred financing costs the unwind of the recognised in net financing costs.
discount on deferred satellite liabilities and interest on the net defined benefit The cash debt component is initially recognised as the present value of the asset and post-employment liability.
principal and interest payments using a discount rate for a similar instrument The change in fair value of the derivative liability component of the 2023 with the same terms and conditions but without the conversion option.
After Convertible Bond is presented within net financing costs in the income initial recognition, it is recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest statement.
Further details on the accounting for derivative financial method with the interest expense recognised in the income statement and a instruments is provided below.
cash outflow resulting from coupon payments to bond holders.
The derivative liability component is assigned the residual amount after deducting from the FINANCIAL ASSETS fair value of the instrument as a whole, the amount separately determined for the cash debt component.
The derivative liability is sensitive to changes in the Trade and other receivables bond price and is marked-to-market at each reporting date.
Trade and other receivables, including prepaid and accrued income, are initially Senior Notes recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated The Group has issued Senior Notes that are included within borrowings, and uncollectable amounts.
initially are recorded at fair value which equates to the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs and any premium or discount.
They are Cash and cash equivalents subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Finance charges, including amortisation of direct transaction costs Cash and cash equivalent, measured at fair value, comprises cash balances, and any premium or discount, are charged to the income statement over the deposits held on call with banks, and other short-term, highly liquid investments term of the borrowing.
with maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities within borrowings on the balance sheet.
Net borrowings FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Net borrowings consists of total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
Borrowings exclude accrued interest and any Equity instruments derivative financial liabilities.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the Derivative financial instruments assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue cost.
The Group may use derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
In accordance Trade and other payables with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Trade and other payables are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivatives are initially recognised and measured at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
Borrowings The gain or loss on remeasurement is recognised in the income statement except where the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging instrument.
Borrowings, comprising interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts, are initially Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated recorded at fair value which equates to the proceeds received, net of direct and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity.
They are subsequently measured at The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Finance charges related in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the to borrowings, including amortisation of direct transaction costs, are charged to income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects profit or the income statement over the term of the borrowing using the effective interest loss.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not hedge rate method.
accounted are recognised immediately in the income statement.
120 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Cash flow hedges Deferred tax The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences recognised in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax statement within financing costs.
arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither The Group changed its foreign exchange policy in 2015 and no longer generally accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is hedges foreign currency transactions.
Where there is a material contract with determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively a foreign currency exposure, a specific hedge to match the specific risk will enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related be evaluated.
At present the Group only hedges certain foreign currency deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
milestone payments to Airbus for the construction of the I-6 satellites.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to profit taxable profits will be available against which the temporary deductible or loss when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast sale occurs.
When the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments non-financial liability, the amounts recognised as other comprehensive in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the or liability.
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable EMPLOYEE BENEFITS right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group bonuses and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
Uncertain tax positions Termination benefits are payable whenever an employees employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee The Groups policy is to comply with all enacted laws in the relevant accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group jurisdictions in which the Group is preparing its tax returns.
However, tax recognises termination benefits when it has demonstrably committed to either legislation, especially as it applies to corporate taxes, is not always prescriptive terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination and more than one interpretation of the law may be possible.
In addition, tax benefits, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
returns in many jurisdictions are filed in arrears a year or more after the end of the accounting period to which they relate.
The tax authorities often have The Group recognises liabilities relating to defined benefit pension plans a significant period in which to enquire into these returns once submitted.
and post-employment benefits in respect of employees.
The Groups net As a result, differences in view, or errors in returns, may not surface until some obligations in respect of defined benefit pension plans and post-employment time after the initial estimate of tax due is determined.
This necessarily leads benefits are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount to a position of uncertain tax positions.
of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present Where the Group is aware of significant areas where the law is unclear and has value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculations are been relied upon in a filing position of a tax return, or, in an area where different performed by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
outcomes and interpretations are possible and may lead to a different result, the Group provides for the uncertain tax position.
A provision is made when, All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the based on the available evidence, the Group considers that it is probable that defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately further amounts will be payable, or a recoverable tax position will be reduced, recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
and the adjustment can be reliably estimated.
The Group calculates the The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
uncertain tax position using a single best estimate of the most likely outcome Pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are charged to the income on a case by case basis.
statement when the related employee service is rendered.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees.
Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value at the date Research expenditure is expensed when incurred.
Development expenditure is of the grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a expensed when incurred unless it meets criteria for capitalisation.
Development straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate costs are only capitalised once the technical feasibility and commercial of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-marketviability of a business case has been demonstrated and they can be measured based vesting conditions.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of expected future benefit.
Amortisation is recorded in the TAXATION income statement.
Current tax PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit Space segment assets differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
Expenditure charged to liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestones, STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 121 external consultancy costs and direct internal costs.
Internal costs, comprising INTANGIBLE ASSETS primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable to Intangible assets comprise goodwill, trademarks, software, terminal the construction of an asset.
Progress payments are determined on milestones development and network access costs, spectrum rights, orbital slots and achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices.
Deferred licences, customer relationships and intellectual property.
satellite payments represent the net present value of future payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are recognised in Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the liability is stated at its net present value and included within borrowings.
These fair value at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, intangible assets space segment assets are depreciated over the life of the satellites from the are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated date they become operational and are placed into service.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are Assets in the course of construction not capitalised and the related expenditure is recognised in profit or loss in the These assets will be transferred to space segment assets and depreciated over period in which the expenditure is incurred.
the life of the satellites or services once they become operational and placed Development costs directly relating to the development of new services are into service.
No depreciation has yet been charged on these assets.
capitalised as intangible assets once a business case has been demonstrated as to technical feasibility and commercial viability.
Capitalised borrowing costs Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis The Group incurs borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, over the life of the asset and the amortisation period and method are reviewed construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial each financial year.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are reviewed period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale and capitalises these annually for impairment.
borrowing costs as part of the cost of the asset.
Capitalisation commences when the Group begins to incur the borrowing costs and related expenditures IMPAIRMENT REVIEWS for the asset, and when it undertakes the activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs All assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for cease when substantially all of the activities necessary to prepare the asset for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the its intended use or sale are complete.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment at 31 December each year.
Indicators of Other fixed assets impairment may include changes in technology and business performance.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest Other fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
levels for which there are separately identifiable and independent cash flows: these are known as cash-generating units.
An impairment loss is recognised Depreciation in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds Depreciation is calculated to write-off the historical cost less residual values, its recoverable amount.
if any, of fixed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs of useful lives of the assets concerned.
The Group selects its depreciation rates disposal and value in use.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take account of any are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological to the asset.
developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
In respect of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable Derecognition amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been A fixed asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefit determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had is expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of been recognised.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
the asset, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, is included in the income statement.
LEASES GOVERNMENT GRANTS Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases by the lessee.
Rentals Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that receivables under operating leases and income generated from terminal leases the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income on a of the lease.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income systematic basis over the periods that the related costs are expensed.
When statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
the grant relates to an asset, it is deducted from the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount.
The grant is therefore recognised as income over the life of the asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
122 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT When the carrying value of non-current assets and disposal groups will be FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing usage, they are classified as held for sale.
This condition is regarded as met only when The Groups operations and significant debt financing expose it to a variety of the sale is highly probable and the disposal group is available for immediate financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign sale in its present condition.
Assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward exchange Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and to limit the impact of as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the fluctuating interest rates by minimising the amount of floating rate longreporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities term borrowings.
Any amortisation or depreciation ceases when an asset is classified as held for sale.
Measurement differences arising between the The Board of Directors have delegated to the Treasury department the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment responsibility for setting and implementing the financial risk management charges and separately disclosed.
policies applied by the Group.
The treasury department has an operating manual that sets out specific guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, Available-for-sale financial assets classified as held for sale are remeasured interest rate risk and credit risk see note 31.
The Group does not hold or issue to fair value with the resulting gains or losses recorded through the revaluation derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
These amounts are subsequently reclassified to profit or loss at the time of sale.
A MARKET RISK INVENTORIES i Foreign exchange risk Inventories are stated at the lower of cost determined by the weighted average The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is the US Dollar.
Apart from the cost method and net realisable value.
Allowances for obsolescence are deferred satellite liability, all of the Groups long-term borrowings are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that denominated in US Dollars, the majority of its revenue is earned in US Dollars inventory is obsolete.
and the majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US Dollars, which are therefore not subject to risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency rates PROVISIONS of exchange.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or However, the Group operates internationally, resulting in approximately 3% and constructive as a result of a past event.
It is probable that an outflow of 17% of total revenue and total expenditure, respectively, being denominated economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable in currencies other than the US Dollar.
Approximately 32% 2015: 34% of the estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The expense relating Groups operating costs are denominated in Pounds Sterling.
In addition, 85% to a provision is presented in the income statement.
of the expenditure on the I-6 satellite programme is in currencies other than US Dollars.
The Groups exposures therefore need to be carefully managed to Asset retirement obligations avoid variability in future cash flows and earnings caused by volatile foreign The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible exchange rates.
property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the As at 31 December 2016 it is estimated that a hypothetical 1% increase in the period in which the liability is incurred.
Upon initial recognition of a liability for US Dollar Sterling year end exchange rate US$1.24 1.00 to US$1.25 1.00 an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added would have increased the 2016 profit before tax by approximately $0.6m to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised 2015: $0.4m : to income over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Following the initial recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method of upon which to assess expected changes in foreign exchange rates.
allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost reflected in operating expenses.
ii Price risk Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of The Group is not exposed to significant equity securities price risk or undiscounted cash flows are recognised each period as an adjustment to commodity price risk.
the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation.
B INTEREST RATE RISK Given the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets except cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, and non-current other receivables, income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk: however, as at 31 December 2016, the Group has no borrowings issued at variable rates following the full repayment of the EIB loan in October 2016.
The Senior Notes due 2022 and 2024, the Convertible Bonds due 2023 and the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are all at fixed rates.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 123 C CREDIT RISK The available liquidity of the Group as at 31 December is: Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual $ in millions Note 2016 2015 obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist Cash and cash equivalents 16 262.0 177.3 of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, trade receivables, other Available but undrawn borrowing receivables, accrued income and derivative financial instruments.
The credit 1 facilities 19 578.9 578.9 risk on liquid funds cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are Total available liquidity 840.9 756.2 highly rated financial institutions.
1 Relates to the Senior Credit Facility and Ex-Im Bank Facility see note 19.
The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December is: The Directors believe the Groups liquidity position is more than sufficient to meet its needs for the foreseeable future.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND KEY Trade receivables, other receivables and JUDGEMENTS accrued income 31 250.7 310.8 The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires Derivative financial instruments 31 1.8 management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the Total credit risk 514.5 488.1 reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results could differ from those The Groups average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2016 was estimates.
The more significant estimates are discussed below: approximately 63 days excluding Ligado and approximately 58 days including Ligado 2015: 61 days excluding Ligado and 56 days including Ligado.
At A IMPAIRMENT REVIEW 31 December 2016, $165.6m 2015: $156.2m of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
No interest is charged on trade receivables until the Impairment reviews of goodwill are performed at the level of the Groups receivables become overdue for payment.
Thereafter, interest may be charged cash-generating units 'CGUs'.
For the Group, these are considered to be the at varying rates depending on the terms of the individual agreements.
Maritime, Enterprise, Aviation, US Government and Global Government business units.
The recoverable amount of each CGU has been determined The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended based on value in use calculations.
The key assumptions used by management to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third-party in these calculations are the cash flow projections, long-term growth rates and collection processes for overdue accounts.
The Group maintains provisions for discount rates for each CGU.
potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis.
The provision for uncollectible trade receivables has decreased to $13.7m as at 31 December The impairment review conducted at 31 December 2016 identified sufficient 2016 2015: $16.1m.
headroom in the recoverable value of each CGU above their carrying value.
A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken by changing key assumptions used For 2016, no customer comprised greater than 10% of the Groups total for each CGU.
Based on this sensitivity analysis, no reasonably possible change revenues 2015: one customer, 11.4%.
In 2015, the customer comprising in the assumptions resulted in the recoverable amount of the CGUs being greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues accounted for 16.4% of the reduced to their carrying value.
We do not anticipate any changes over the Groups trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2015. next 12 months that would result in the recoverable amount of the CGUs being The ageing profile of past due but not impaired trade receivables is: reduced to their carrying value.
Key assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount of the CGUs were $ in millions 2016 2015 as follows: Between 1 and 30 days overdue 35.3 30.2 Pre-tax Between 31 and 120 days overdue 7.9 9.0 Allocated discount Long-term Over 120 days overdue 1.5 1.4 $ in millions goodwill rate growth rate As at 31 December 44.7 40.6 Maritime 215.5 8.2% 2.0% Enterprise 54.8 8.2% 2.0% D LIQUIDITY RISK Aviation 46.4 8.2% 2.0% US Government 50.6 8.2% 2.0% The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations and financial liabilities.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining Global Government 54.8 8.2% 2.0% sufficient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through Total Group 422.1 an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
124 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Cash flow projections C REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGADO NETWORKS COOPERATION AGREEMENT The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on the value in use, which is determined using cash flow projections derived from the most recent financial In December 2007, Inmarsat and Ligado Networks formerly LightSquared LP, budgets and forecasts approved by management covering a five-year period.
Skyterra Canada Inc. and LightSquared Inc. entered into a Cooperation The short and medium-term cash flows reflect managements expectations of Agreement for the efficient use of L-band spectrum over North America.
The future outcomes taking into account past experience, adjusted for anticipated Cooperation Agreement was segregated into phases and designed to enable growth from both existing and new business in line with our strategic plans for and support the deployment of an ATC network by Ligado in North America.
each segment of our business.
The cash flows also take into consideration our To date total cash payments of $775.0m have been received under the assessment of the potential impact of external economic factors.
The Group has, thus far, recognised $577.2m of revenue and $23.4m of operating Long-term growth rates costs under all phases of the agreement.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised $119.4m of revenue with no associated operating A long-term growth rate has been applied to extrapolate the cash flows into costs year ended 31 December 2015: $88.6m and $nil, respectively.
The growth rate has been determined using long-term industry growth rates and managements conservative expectation of future growth.
In March 2016, Ligado Networks agreed to take the 30MHz option the 30MHz Plan under Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement between the companies.
Discount rates In exchange for the deferral of some payments from Ligado to Inmarsat, the parties agreed to delay the transition to the 30MHz Plan, with Ligado providing The discount rates reflect the time value of money and are derived from the Inmarsat enhanced spectrum usage rights for its satellite operations for Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for the risk associated with a minimum period of two years.
With this in mind, Ligado made quarterly the CGUs.
The risk premium, when compared with the Group discount rate, payments to Inmarsat totalling $108m during the course of 2016 and will make was consistent across each of the CGUs given the similarities in exposure to aggregate payments of approximately $111m and $118m in respect of 2017 and economic and competitive conditions.
The approach for calculation of the 2018 respectively, payable in quarterly instalments.
This revenue is recognised Groups discount rate has been changed to use the debt to capital ratio rather on an accruals basis.
Over the three-year period up to approximately $35m of than the debt to equity ratio.
The prior year discount rate, calculated on the additional contracted payments will be deferred.
same basis, would have resulted in a 9.5% discount rate instead of the 8.9% that was disclosed.
At 31 December 2016, deferred income in respect of the Cooperation Agreement of $197.8m was recorded on the balance sheet.
Although the cash B TAXATION has been received, the timing of the recognition of this deferred income, together with any related future costs and taxes, is dependent upon a number The calculation of the Groups current and deferred tax balances, including of factors that continue to be uncertain until such time as Ligado receive their potential liabilities or assets, necessarily involves a degree of estimation and FCC license.
During 2016, Inmarsat recognised $11.0m of deferred income as judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally revenue to reflect the impact of the revenue deferral arising under the revised determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, transition agreement.
or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
The amounts recognised or disclosed are D CAPITALISATION OF SPACE SEGMENT ASSETS AND ASSOCIATED derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement.
However, the BORROWING COSTS inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these means eventual realisation could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact The key judgements involved in the capitalisation of space segment assets and the Groups results and cash flows.
associated borrowings costs are: The Group maintains tax provisions in respect of ongoing enquiries with tax whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IAS have been met authorities.
In the event that all such enquiries were settled as currently whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation of provided for, we estimate that the Group would incur a cash tax outflow of costs should cease and depreciation should commence and approximately $90m over 2017 or 2018.
The enquiries remain ongoing at this time.
whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 125 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker to allocate resources and assess the performance of the Group.
The Groups operating segments are aligned to five market-facing business units, being: Maritime, focusing on worldwide commercial maritime services Enterprise, focusing on worldwide energy, industry, media, carriers, and M2M services Aviation, focusing on commercial, business and general aviation services US Government, focusing on US civil and military government services and Global Government, focusing on worldwide civil and military government services Details of these business units are given on pages 28 to 45.
These five business units are supported by Central Services which include satellite operations and backbone infrastructure, corporate administrative costs, and any income that is not directly attributable to a business unit such as Ligado Networks.
The Group has aggregated the US Government and Global Government operating segments into one reporting segment as the segments have a similar type of customer for the products and services and meet the criteria for aggregation under IFRS.
Therefore, the Groups reportable segments are Maritime, Government, Enterprise, Aviation and Central Services.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Segment results are assessed at the EBITDA level without the allocation of central costs, depreciation, net financing costs and taxation.
SEGMENT RESULTS 2016 Central $ in millions Maritime Government Enterprise Aviation Services Total Revenue 575.3 330.5 144.6 142.6 16.6 1,209.6 Ligado revenue 119.4 119.4 Total revenue 575.3 330.5 144.6 142.6 136.0 1,329.0 Net operating costs 120.5 86.5 38.7 45.2 243.3 534.2 EBITDA 454.8 244.0 105.9 97.4 107.3 794.8 Depreciation and amortisation 349.4 349.4 1 Other 1.7 1.7 Operating profit 454.8 244.0 105.9 97.4 455.0 447.1 Net financing cost 147.9 Profit before tax 299.2 Taxation 55.8 Profit for the year 243.4 2 Cash capital expenditure 43.8 6.1 0.4 153.0 209.6 412.9 Financing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 36.1 3 Cash flow timing 37.2 Total capital expenditure 486.2 1 Other relates primarily to the share of profit from associates.
2 Cash capital expenditure is the cash flow relating to tangible and intangible asset additions, it includes capitalised labour costs and excludes capitalised interest.
3 Cash flow timing represents the difference between accrued capex and the actual cash flows.
126 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2015 Central $ in millions Maritime Government Enterprise1 Aviation Services Total Revenue 593.2 286.6 159.5 126.8 19.4 1,185.5 Ligado revenue 88.6 88.6 Total revenue 593.2 286.6 159.5 126.8 108.0 1,274.1 Net operating costs 133.8 95.6 46.4 23.1 249.2 548.1 EBITDA 459.4 191.0 113.1 103.7 141.2 726.0 Depreciation and amortisation 311.2 311.2 Gain on disposal 9.3 9.3 2 Other 2.3 2.3 Operating profit 459.4 191.0 113.1 103.7 440.8 426.4 Net financing cost 88.4 Profit before tax 338.0 Taxation 56.0 Profit for the year 282.0 3 Cash capital expenditure 30.1 4.4 0.3 64.4 394.4 493.6 Financing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 35.3 4 Cash flow timing 31.8 Total capital expenditure 497.1 1 Enterprise excludes the disposals made during the first half of 2015.
2 Other relates primarily to the share of profit from associates.
3 Cash capital expenditure is the cash flow relating to tangible and intangible asset additions, it includes capitalised labour costs and excludes capitalised interest.
4 Cash flow timing represents the difference between accrued capex and the actual cash flows.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS BY GEOGRAPHY The Groups operations are located in the geographical regions listed below.
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer.
For wholesale customers, this is the distribution partner who receives the invoice for the service, and for retail customers this is the billing address of the customer for whom the service is provided.
Assets and capital expenditure are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 127 6.
OPERATING PROFIT Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group.
Network and satellite operation costs comprise costs to third parties for network service contracts, operating lease rentals and services.
A breakdown of employee benefit costs is given in note 7.
Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following items: $ in millions Note 2016 2015 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 278.1 239.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 71.3 71.7 Impairment of intangible assets 14 0.4 Gain on disposal of assets 0.5 9.3 Impairment loss 1.2 0.2 Operating lease rentals: Land and buildings 14.8 15.4 Services equipment, fixtures and fittings 0.3 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 33.3 31.9 Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense 18 0.5 3.9 Research and development costs expensed 13.3 13.6 Remuneration payable to the Groups auditor Deloitte LLP and its associates in the year is analysed below: $ in millions 2016 2015 Audit fees: Annual audit of the Company 0.2 0.2 Annual audit of subsidiary companies 0.8 0.9 Total audit fees 1.0 1.1 1 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total audit and audit-related fees 1.1 1.2 Tax advisory services 0.1 0.6 2 Other services 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.6 Total auditors remuneration 1.3 1.8 1 Fees paid for audit-related assurance services refer to the half year and quarterly reviews of the Groups interim financial statements.
2 Other services in 2016 relate to a corporate financing transaction.
128 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS $ in millions Note 2016 2015 Wages and salaries 222.8 215.8 Social security costs 18.0 19.0 Share-based payments including employers national insurance contribution 15.8 14.2 Defined contribution pension plan costs 9.0 8.2 1 Defined benefit pension plan costs 28 1.9 3.1 1 Post-employment benefits costs 28 0.1 0.1 Total employee benefit costs 267.7 260.4 1 Defined benefit pension plan costs and post-employment benefits costs include the service cost and gain on curtailment in 2016 see note 28.
EMPLOYEE NUMBERS The average monthly number of employees including the Executive Directors employed during the year: $ in millions 2016 2015 By activity: Operations 812 785 Sales and marketing 370 340 Development and engineering 223 213 Administration 357 349 1,762 1,687 By segment: Maritime 337 378 Government 189 196 Enterprise 72 74 Aviation 108 68 Central Services 1,056 971 1,762 1,687 The employee headcount numbers presented above refer to permanent full time and part time employees and exclude contractors and temporary staff.
Employee benefit costs of $21.7m 2015: $22.8m relating to contractors and temporary staff have been included in the cost table above.
KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION The Groups Executive and Non-Executive Directors are the key management personnel of the business.
Details of the total amounts earned during the year are as follows: $ in millions 2016 2015 Short-term benefits 3.9 4.5 1 Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 2 Share-based payments 5.1 5.9 9.0 10.4 1 Includes the value of cash allowances taken by two Executive Directors in lieu of pension contributions.
2 Includes employers national insurance or other social security contributions.
The Remuneration report contains full disclosure of Directors remuneration on page 90.
In both the current and prior year, no Director has been a member of the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 129 9.
NET FINANCING COSTS $ in millions 2016 2015 Bank interest receivable and other interest 4.3 1.4 Net interest on the net defined benefit asset and post-employment liability 0.4 Total financing income 4.3 1.8 Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 79.8 74.1 Interest on Convertible Bonds 33.6 30.7 Accelerated accretion on redemption of 2017 Convertible Bonds 32.8 Amortisation of debt issue costs 8.2 7.9 Amortisation of discount on Senior Notes due 2022 1.0 1.1 Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 0.6 0.9 Net interest on the net defined benefit asset and post-employment liability 0.4 Other interest 3.1 10.8 Financing costs 159.5 125.5 Less: Amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 36.1 35.3 Total financing cost 123.4 90.2 1 Change in fair value of the derivative liability component of the Convertible Bonds 28.8 Net financing cost 147.9 88.4 1 For further details of the derivative liability component of the Convertible Bonds due 2023 please refer to note 19.
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditures on such assets.
The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 7.4% 2015: 7.0%.
TAXATION The tax charge for the year recognised in the income statement: $ in millions 2016 2015 Current tax: Current year 36.3 37.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.8 24.0 Total current tax 40.1 61.0 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 26.3 33.7 Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation tax rate 0.3 17.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10.3 20.8 Total deferred tax 15.7 5.0 Total taxation charge 55.8 56.0 130 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The effective tax rate was 18.6% 2015: 16.6% and is reconciled below: $ in millions 2016 2015 Profit before tax 299.2 338.0 Income tax at 20.0% 2015: 20.25% 59.8 68.4 Differences in overseas tax rates 2.0 2.3 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 3.5 6.1 Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation tax rate 10.3 20.8 Impact of UK patent box regime 3.9 2.7 Impact of current year losses not recognised 0.6 Impact of change in fair value of derivative liability component of Convertible Bond 5.8 Other non-deductible expenses non-taxable income 2.9 2.1 Total taxation charge 55.8 56.0 Tax credited directly to equity: $ in millions 2016 2015 Current tax credit on share-based payments 2.7 0.8 Deferred tax credit on share-based payments 3.2 1.1 Total tax credited directly to equity 0.5 1.9 Tax credited directly to other comprehensive income: $ in millions 2016 2015 Current tax credit on cash flow hedges 0.2 Deferred tax credit charged relating to gains on cash flow hedges 0.1 0.2 Deferred tax credit charged on remeasurement of defined benefit asset and post-employment benefits 2.6 0.6 Deferred tax credit on remeasurement of available for sale financial asset 1.4 Total tax credited directly to other comprehensive income 2.7 0.4 11.
NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAINS $ in millions Note 2016 2015 Defined benefit plan and post-employment benefits 28 0.4 0.4 Other operating income 11.2 2.9 Total foreign exchange gain 10.8 3.3 12.
DIVIDENDS During 2016, the 2016 interim dividend of $91.8m 20.59 cents per ordinary share and the 2015 final dividend of $143.3m 31.78 cents per ordinary share were paid to the Companys shareholders.
With effect from the 2016 interim dividend, the Group offered a scrip dividend election allowing shareholders to take their cash dividend entitlement in Inmarsat shares.
This option was taken up by shareholders holding approximately 43m shares, representing 9.54% of our issued share capital.
For our 2016 interim dividend the scrip amounted to 946,283 new shares 0.21% of the then issued share capital, representing an $8.9m cash dividend savings.
These shares were issued and made available for trading on 21 October 2016.
During 2015, the 2015 interim dividend of $88.1m 19.61 cents per ordinary share and the 2014 final dividend of $136.0m 30.26 cents per ordinary share were paid to the Companys shareholders.
The Inmarsat plc Board of Directors intends to recommend a final dividend of 33.37 cents per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 to be paid on 26 May 2017 to ordinary shareholders on the share register at the close of business on 21 April 2017.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 131 $ in cents 2016 2015 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 20.59 19.61 Final dividend per ordinary share 33.37 31.78 Total dividend per ordinary share 53.96 51.39 13.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Service equipment, Assets in the Freehold land fixtures and course of $ in millions and buildings fittings Space segment construction Total Cost: 1 January 2015 16.9 242.1 2,732.7 1,079.9 4,071.6 Additions 0.3 30.5 90.4 326.3 447.5 Disposals 18.1 7.9 0.1 26.1 1 Transfers from assets in the course of construction and reclassifications 0.1 73.8 733.3 802.2 5.0 31 December 2015 17.3 328.3 3,548.5 603.9 4,498.0 Additions 3.3 8.2 54.3 324.7 390.5 Disposals 7.6 1.2 8.8 1 Transfers from assets in the course of construction and reclassifications 15.8 51.0 66.8 31 December 2016 20.6 344.7 3,652.6 861.8 4,879.7 Accumulated depreciation: 1 January 2015 8.6 205.3 1,208.3 1,422.2 Charge for the year 1.3 21.9 216.3 239.5 Disposals 16.9 6.9 23.8 1 Reclassifications 32.9 33.0 0.1 31 December 2015 9.9 243.2 1,384.7 1,637.8 Charge for the year 0.6 46.6 230.9 278.1 Disposals 7.4 0.2 7.6 31 December 2016 10.5 282.4 1,615.5 1,908.3 Net book amount at 31 December 2015 7.4 85.1 2,163.8 603.9 2,860.2 Net book amount at 31 December 2016 10.1 62.3 2,037.2 861.8 2,971.4 1 Reclassifications relate to movements between tangible and intangible asset categories throughout the year to align accounting policies across the Group.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Space segment assets: Satellites 1315 years Other space segment, including ground infrastructure 512 years Fixtures and fittings, and services-related equipment 315 years Buildings 20 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the Group was carrying certain freehold land and buildings with a net book value of nil.
Had they been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2016 would have been $33.2m 2015: $33.2m.
Market valuation is based on the Directors best estimates.
In 2016 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
The grants have been deducted from the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount.
Government grants received in 2016 were $3.1m 2015: $1.7m.
132 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
Goodwill represents the excess of consideration paid on an acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
Trademarks are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are between seven and 20 years.
The capitalised software includes the Groups BGAN billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of three to five years.
The Group capitalises development costs associated with the development and enhancement of user terminals and associated network access costs as intangible assets.
Costs directly relating to the Groups BGAN family and GSPS services are being amortised over the estimated sales life of the services which is five to 10 years.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with acquisitions are being amortised over the expected period of benefit of between 12 and 14 years, using the straight-line method.
Orbital slots and licences relate to the Groups Alphasat satellite, GX programme and other licences acquired, and each individual asset is reviewed to determine whether it has a finite or indefinite useful life.
Amortisation of the GX programme finite life assets commenced when the Inmarsat-5 satellites went operational in December 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 133 15.
INVESTMENTS At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Interest in associates 13.2 12.1 Interest in associates represents the Groups investments which have been treated as associates and have all been accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Individually, all of the investments in associates are deemed to be immaterial and as a result the associates assets, liabilities, revenues and profits have not been presented.
Cash dividends received from the associates for the year ended 31 December 2016 total $1.3m 2015: $1.2m.
The Groups aggregate share of its associates profits for the year is $2.4m 2015: $2.5m and has been recognised in the income statement.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and for the purposes of the cash flow statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Cash at bank and in hand 50.7 53.6 Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 211.3 123.7 Cash and cash equivalents 262.0 177.3 At 31 December 2016, the Group as $395.0m of cash held in short-term deposits with a maturity of between three and 12 months 2015:$nil.
This amount is presented separately within current assets in the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions Note 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 262.0 177.3 Bank overdrafts 19 0.5 2.6 Net cash and cash equivalents 261.5 174.7 At 31 December 2016, the Group has $2.8m 2015: $3.0m of restricted cash, the majority of which are funds held in escrow in relation to the disposal of SkyWave.
134 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Current: Trade receivables 210.3 196.8 Other receivables 34.9 35.9 Prepayments and accrued income 61.7 92.0 Total trade and other receivables 306.9 324.7 Non-current: Prepayments and accrued income 6.4 Defined benefit pension asset 4.5 19.0 Other receivables 0.8 4.4 Total other receivables 11.7 23.4 The Groups trade and other receivables are stated after provisions for uncollectable trade receivables.
Movements in the provisions during the year were as follows: $ in millions 2016 2015 At 1 January 16.1 18.7 Charged to the provision in respect of the current year 11.4 13.3 Utilised in the year 2.1 1.0 Provision released in the year 11.7 14.9 1 At 31 December 13.7 16.1 1 The maturity of the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables for the year ended 31 December 2016 is $1.4m between one and 30 days overdue, $3.4m between 31 and 120 days overdue and $8.9m over 120 days overdue 2015: $1.6m between one and 30 days overdue, $4.2m between 31 and 120 days overdue and $10.3m over 120 days.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value.
INVENTORIES At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Finished goods 33.6 24.6 Work in progress 0.7 0.4 Total inventories 34.3 25.0 The Groups inventories are stated after allowances for obsolescence.
Movements in the allowance during the year were as follows: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 At 1 January 17.2 15.1 Charged to the allowance in respect of the current year 0.5 3.9 Provision released in the year 4.9 1.8 At 31 December 12.8 17.2 The Directors consider the carrying value of inventories to approximate to their fair value.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 135 19.
NET BORROWINGS At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 Deferred Deferred $ in millions Amount financing cost Net balance Amount financing cost Net balance Current: Bank overdrafts 0.5 0.5 2.6 2.6 Deferred satellite payments 3.8 3.8 1.8 1.8 EIB Facility 44.1 44.1 Ex-Im Bank Facilities 99.5 99.5 80.9 80.9 Total current borrowings 103.8 103.8 129.4 129.4 Non-current: Deferred satellite payments 8.4 8.4 14.5 14.5 Senior Notes due 2022 1,000.0 6.1 993.9 1,000.0 7.3 992.7 Net issuance discount 5.5 5.5 6.5 6.5 Senior Notes due 2024 400.0 5.6 394.4 EIB Facility 88.1 0.4 87.7 Ex-Im Bank Facilities 533.9 18.6 515.3 633.3 18.0 615.3 Convertible Bonds due 2017 326.6 326.6 Accretion of principal 3.4 3.4 Convertible Bonds due 2023 545.5 7.7 537.8 Accretion of principal 3.7 3.7 Total non-current borrowings 2,486.0 38.0 2,448.0 2,059.4 25.7 2,033.7 Total borrowings 2,589.8 38.0 2,551.8 2,188.8 25.7 2,163.1 Cash and cash equivalents 262.0 262.0 177.3 177.3 Short-term investments 395.0 395.0 Net borrowings 1,932.8 38.0 1,894.8 2,011.5 25.7 1,985.8 EIB FACILITY In 2010, the Group signed an eight-year facility agreement with the European Investment Bank the EIB Facility.
The facility was repayable in equal annual instalments with interest equal to three-month USD LIBOR plus a margin, payable in January, April, July and October each year.
On 31 October 2016, the Group fully repaid the EIB Facility.
EX-IM BANK FACILITIES The Group has two direct financing agreements with the Export-Import Bank the Ex-Im Bank Facilities of the United States.
The $700.0m facility signed in 2011 was available to be drawn down for four years and is now repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further 8.5 years.
Drawings under this facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 3.11% for the life of the loan.
In November 2014, the Group signed a seven-year $185.9m facility which has a total availability period of two years and will then be repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further five years.
Drawings under this facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 1.96% for the life of the loan.
SENIOR NOTES DUE 2022 AND 2024 On 4 June 2014, the Group issued $1.0bn of 4.875% Senior Notes due 15 May 2022.
The aggregate gross proceeds were $992.1m, net of $7.9m issuance discount.
On 22 September 2016, the Group issued $400.0m of 6.5% Senior Notes due 1 October 2024.
SENIOR CREDIT FACILITY On 22 May 2015, the Group signed a five-year $500.5m revolving credit facility Senior Credit Facility.
Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to the applicable USD LIBOR, plus a margin of between 0.70% and 1.70% determined by reference to the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
At 31 December 2016, there were no drawings under the Senior Credit Facility.
136 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED CONVERTIBLE BONDS In 2007, the Group issued $287.7m of 1.75% Convertible Bonds due 9 November 2017.
The bonds were convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and had a 1.75% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 4.5%.
These bonds were repurchased in full on 12 September 2016.
On 9 September 2016, the Group issued $650m of 3.875% Convertible Bonds due 9 September 2023.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have a 3.875% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 3.681%.
The bond is a net share settled instrument, meaning upon conversion the Group will repay the principal of $650m in cash and satisfy the remaining conversion value in ordinary shares if the market value of the Companys shares at settlement date exceeds the conversion price of $13.41 and the option is exercised by the Bondholder.
Upon issuance, in accordance with IAS 32 the instrument was bifurcated between a cash debt component and a derivative liability component, being $545.5m and $104.5m respectively.
The debt component meets the definition of net borrowings and over the term of the bond will accrete up to the principal value of $650.0m with the cost of that accretion recognised in net financing costs.
The derivative liability represents the value of the conversion rights associated with the instrument and is accounted for at fair value through profit and loss.
It is excluded from net borrowings with the mark-to-market movements recognised in net financing costs as this represents the movement in fair value of the derivative component of the bond.
$ in millions Note Fair value of Convertible Bonds issued 650.0 Cost of issue 8.1 Net proceeds 641.9 Derivative liability component 104.5 Debt liability component at date of issue 537.4 Amortisation of debt issue costs in 2016 0.4 Interest charged in 2016 11.6 Coupon interest in 2016 7.9 Debt liability component at 31 December 2016 541.5 Fair value of derivative liability component at 31 December 2016 31 133.4 Fair value of Convertible Bond at 31 December 2016 674.9 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 6.8% to the liability component.
The total interest charge is split between the coupon interest charge of $7.9m and accreted interest of $3.7m, with both charges recognised in net financing costs in the income statement.
The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in March and September with the liability recognised in accrued interest note 20.
Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in March and September with the liability recognised in borrowings.
The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior Notes, Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility to approximate to their fair value see note 31.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows: Effective interest rate % 2016 2015 Bank overdrafts 3.75 1.25 EIB Facility 1.66 Senior Notes due 2022 4.88 4.88 Senior Notes due 2024 6.50 Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility 3.11 3.11 Ex-Im Bank 2014 Facility 1.96 1.96 Deferred satellite payments 3.75 4.00 Convertible Bonds due 2017 9.88 Convertible Bonds due 2023 6.80 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 137 20.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Current: Trade payables 133.8 91.6 Deferred consideration 0.5 1.5 Other taxation and social security payables 5.7 7.9 Other payables 11.2 6.8 1 Accruals and deferred income 357.1 357.1 Total trade and other payables 508.3 464.9 Non-current: Deferred consideration 0.2 0.5 Other payables 23.8 24.1 Defined benefit pension and post-employment liability 17.5 18.3 Total other payables 41.5 42.9 1 The deferred income balance includes $197.8m 2015: $208.8m relating to payments received from Ligado Networks.
During the current financial year, $11.0m 2015: $nil of these payments was released to the income statement.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair value.
PROVISIONS Movements in the current portion of the Groups provisions were as follows: Asset retirement Other $ in millions obligations provisions Total Current: At 1 January 2015 0.3 3.1 3.4 Charged in respect of current year 3.7 3.7 Utilised in current year 5.2 5.2 Revision in estimated timing of settlement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2015 0.2 1.6 1.8 Charged in respect of current year 0.1 3.5 3.6 Utilised in current year 3.5 3.5 At 31 December 2016 0.3 1.6 1.9 The Groups other provisions relate primarily to restructuring charges.
The associated cash flows in respect of the restructuring provisions outstanding at 31 December 2016 are expected to occur within one year.
138 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Movements in the non-current portion of the Groups provisions were as follows: Asset retirement Other $ in millions obligations provisions Total Non-current: At 1 January 2015 1.5 5.7 7.2 Utilised in current year 2.3 2.3 Transfer to property, plant and equipment 2.5 2.5 Revision in estimated timing of settlement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2015 1.6 0.9 2.5 Utilised in current year 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2016 1.6 1.2 2.8 Asset retirement obligations relate to the expected costs of removing equipment from leased premises.
Timing of the future outflow are determined by the termination of the lease premises agreement.
CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION The current tax asset of $8.5m and current tax liability of $129.0m 2015: $3.8m and $123.2m, respectively, represent the tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
RECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 for the year are shown below: At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 $ in millions Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 32.7 198.4 165.7 35.1 184.3 149.2 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 33.7 33.7 41.7 41.7 Pension and post-employment benefits 2.0 2.0 0.7 1.2 0.5 Share options 3.8 3.8 7.8 7.8 Tax losses 15.9 0.5 15.4 21.0 21.0 Other 10.2 1.0 9.2 11.0 1.3 9.7 Net deferred tax liabilities 64.6 233.6 169.0 75.6 228.5 152.9 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The value of deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the net deferred tax balance is shown below: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Deferred tax assets 39.3 44.6 Deferred tax liabilities 208.3 197.5 Net deferred tax liabilities 169.0 152.9 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 139 Movement in temporary differences during the year: Recognised At in other At 1 January Recognised Recognised comprehensive 31 December $ in millions 2016 in income in equity income 2016 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 149.2 16.5 165.7 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 41.7 8.0 33.7 Other 9.7 0.7 0.2 9.2 Pension and post-employment benefits 0.5 0.1 2.6 2.0 Share-based payments 7.8 0.8 3.2 3.8 Tax losses 21.0 5.6 15.4 Total 152.9 15.7 3.2 2.8 169.0 Recognised At in other At 1 January Recognised Recognised comprehensive 31 December $ in millions 2015 in income in equity income 2015 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 155.7 6.5 149.2 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 37.7 4.0 41.7 Pension and post-employment benefits 0.3 0.2 0.6 0.5 Share-based payments 6.9 0.2 1.1 7.8 Tax losses 20.6 0.4 21.0 Other 6.0 2.5 1.2 9.7 Total 159.6 5.0 1.1 0.6 152.9 Total unprovided deferred tax assets: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Temporary timing differences 0.3 Unused income tax losses 34.1 3.7 Unused capital losses 24.2 24.2 Total 58.3 28.2 Overseas dividends received are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes.
The unrecognised gross temporary difference in respect of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is $nil 2015: $nil, resulting in a deferred tax liability of $nil 2015: $nil.
The Budget announced by the Chancellor on 16 March 2016 included changes to the main rates of corporation tax for UK companies.
The standard rate of corporation tax remains 20% for the financial year 1 April 2016, however there will be a further reduction to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, and to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated taking account of the forecast impact of the reduction of the corporation tax rate from 20% to the substantively enacted rate of 17%.
140 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations: $ in millions 2016 2015 Profit for the year 243.4 282.0 Adjustments for: Taxation charge 55.8 56.0 Financing costs 123.4 90.2 Financing income 4.3 1.8 Mark-to-market valuation 28.8 Operating profit 447.1 426.4 Depreciation and amortisation 349.4 311.2 Gain on disposal of assets 0.5 9.3 Impairment loss 1.2 0.2 Share of profit of associates 2.4 2.5 EBITDA 794.8 726.0 Dividends received from associates 1.3 1.2 Non-cash employee benefit costs 15.8 14.2 Forward exchange contracts 1.2 2.4 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 1.5 2.7 Changes in net working capital: Decrease in restricted cash 0.2 Decrease in trade and other receivables 19.0 5.6 Increase decrease in inventories 9.3 2.4 Decrease in trade and other payables 13.6 26.8 Decrease in provisions 5.9 Cash generated from operations 805.5 717.0 24.
SHARE CAPITAL At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Authorised: 1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2015: 1,166,610,560 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 452,062,811 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2015: 449,588,539 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 During the year ended 31 December 2016, a total of 1,527,989 2015: 1,267,152 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company under its employee share schemes, and 946,283 ordinary shares 2015: nil of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company as part of the interim 2016 scrip dividend offering.
No shares were repurchased during 2016 or 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 141 25.
EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS AND AWARDS The Group operates a number of share plans used to award options and shares to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration packages.
In 2014, the Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan ESP was approved by shareholders and replaced the previous Executive Share Plans.
Share awards since May 2014 have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules.
Under the ESP the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards BSA and Performance Share Awards PSA, which replicate the previous Bonus Share Plan BSP and Performance Share Plan PSP awards.
The costs of these awards are recognised in the income statement see note 7 based on the fair value of the awards on the grant date.
Further information on how these are calculated can be found on the next page and under Employee benefits in the principal accounting policies on page 120.
STAFF VALUE PARTICIPATION PLAN All options granted under the Staff Value Participation Plan the 2004 Plan have vested and expired.
Whenever options are exercised under the 2004 Plan, the holder must pay a fide minimis charge of 1 for each tranche of options exercised.
The options expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Shares are transferred to the option holders from the Inmarsat Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust resident in Jersey.
No new shares have been issued to satisfy the exercise of these options.
A summary of all share activity within the Trust, which reflects the options outstanding under the 2004 Plan as at 31 December 2016, is as follows: Weighted Shares 2004 Plan average available for options exercise price $ in millions grant outstanding per option Balance at 1 January 2015 224,128 50,515 3.74 Exercised Bonus Share Plan and Staff Value Participation Plan 136,557 Balance at 31 December 2015 and 2016 87,571 Exercisable at 31 December 2016 87,571 BONUS SHARE AWARD Awards have been made regularly under the BSA to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Further information on awards granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration report on page 101.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The performance conditions attached to the BSA are non-market-based performance conditions.
Any dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Under the rules of the BSA the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention of the Company to generally satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSA provides non-contributory share awards that have an entitlement to dividends and no market-based performance conditions attached, the fair value of the awards is the value of the grant.
This is due to the fact that regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total value of shares to be awarded excluding shares added in lieu of dividends will not change.
The Remuneration Committee has approved a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, for the Groups Business Unit presidents and certain members of staff.
The three-year plan relates to the 2012 to 2014 financial years and awards are made according to achievements against non-market-based targets.
Since 2015, this plan has been replaced and the participants of the LTIP are now included within the BSA scheme.
PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD The PSA makes regular annual awards to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Further information on awards granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration report on page 102.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid between the date of award and the date of vesting in the form of additional shares.
Any such additional shares are only added to the number of shares which will vest subject to performance conditions being satisfied.
The PSA shares will not ordinarily be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date.
The transfer of shares is dependent upon performance conditions being satisfied over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls.
The rules of the PSA provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention of the Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares at the end of the relevant three-year period.
The performance conditions for the PSA are based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to constituents of the FTSE 50-150 and FTSE 350 Indices excluding investment trusts, depending upon the year of the award, and on EBITDA or revenue growth measured over a three-year period.
For the awards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the vesting schedule is structured so that 50% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR and 50% is linked to EBITDA, as individual performance measures.
The market-based performance condition has been incorporated into the fair value.
For the 2015 and 2016 awards, the vesting schedule has been restructured so that 30% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR for Executive Directors for any participants below Executive Director level this is linked to revenue growth over the three-year period of the awards, 30% is linked to EBITDA and 40% is linked to strategic objectives set out prior to the grant date of the scheme.
142 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The fair values and the assumptions used in the calculation of PSA awards vesting or due to vest in 2016 or after are as follows: Performance Share Awards Grant date 23 March 2016 30 March 2015 19 March 2014 Grant price 9.30 9.34 7.08 Exercise price nil nil nil Bad leaver rate 12% 12% 0% Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years Volatility 22.5% 20.8% 32.7% Fair value per share option Executive Director level 7.91 8.50 5.52 Fair value per share option below Executive Director level 9.43 9.41 5.52 Both the BSA and PSA share awards expire 10 years after date of grant or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may determine before the grant of an award.
For share awards outstanding at the period end the weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the BSA and PSA share awards at 31 December 2016 is 0.5 and 0.9 years, respectively.
UK SHARESAVE SCHEME AND INTERNATIONAL SHARESAVE PLAN The UK Sharesave Scheme is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
A grant made in June 2016 with an option price of 5.68 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% will mature in August 2019.
A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of 4.59 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% matured in February 2016.
The International Sharesave Plan mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible.
Participants are given either the opportunity to receive options in the same way as the UK Sharesave Scheme, or the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered at the Companys discretion in cash or shares.
It is the Companys intention to satisfy the awards using shares, some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued.
A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of 4.59 matured in February 2016.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been made.
The remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31 December 2016 is 0.5 years for each plan.
EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP is for US and Canadian employees to purchase the Companys stock at a 15% discount using funds accumulated by an aggregate of 26 monthly contributions.
A grant made under the scheme in December 2015 with an option price of 9.22 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 15% will mature in March 2018.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and ESPP have been valued with a Black-Scholes model using the following assumptions: Sharesave Scheme UK and ESPP International 14 December Grant date 30 June 2016 2015 Market price at date of grant 8.05 10.85 Exercise price 5.68 9.22 Bad leaver rate 3% pa 3% pa Vesting period 36 months 26 months Volatility 24.6% 20.4% Dividend yield assumption 4.54% 3.04% Risk-free interest rate 0.10% 0.41% Fair value per option 1.85 1.74 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 143 UK SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN The UK Share Incentive Plan SIP has made several awards and is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
Arrangements exist which replicate the awards as closely as possible for eligible international employees, using the same market values per award as used by SIP.
A summary of share option activity as at 31 December 2016 and the weighted average exercise price per award is as follows: Weighted Weighted Weighted average Sharesave average average Sharesave UK exercise price International exercise price ESPP exercise price Total Balance at 1 January 2015 481,081 5.03 213,747 2.81 4,518,738 Granted allocated 567,810 5.93 446,338 5.86 41,549 4.94 2,566,373 Forfeited and lapsed 26,079 0.27 5,908 0.08 1,170,199 Exercised 479,077 5.00 216,663 2.91 725,555 Balance at 31 December 2016 543,735 5.68 432,514 5.68 41,549 4.94 5,189,357 Exercisable at 31 December 2016 Exercise price per share 5.68 5.68 4.94 26.
RESERVES Cash flow hedge reserve: $ in millions 2016 2015 Balance at 1 January 0.9 1.6 Loss recognised on cash flow hedges: Forward exchange contracts 24.7 Reclassified and capitalised on the balance sheet: Forward exchange contracts 1.3 Reclassified to the income statement: Interest rate swaps 0.9 Forward exchange contracts 3.1 FX movement through cash flow hedge reserve 0.2 Tax charged credited related to amounts transferred to the income statement 0.1 0.4 Balance at 31 December 23.3 0.9 144 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Gains and losses reclassified from equity into the income statement during the period are included in the following income statement lines.
$ in millions 2016 2015 Total net operating costs 0.9 2.9 Tax credit 0.1 0.4 Total reclassified credited charged to the income statement in the year 0.8 2.5 Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and the cash flow hedge reserve.
When a hedged item is recognised in the income statement the cumulative deferred gain or loss in other comprehensive income and the cash flow hedge reserve is reclassified to the income statement.
When a hedged item is recognised as a non-financial asset or liability in the balance sheet the accumulated gain or loss is transferred from the cash flow hedge reserve and included in the initial measurement of its cost.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2016 has been calculated based on profit attributable to equity holders for the year and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
These represent share options and awards granted to employees under the employee share plans.
The Convertible Bonds due 2023 could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, however they were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive in the period, as the contingent conditions associated to the bond had not been met.
$ in millions 2016 2015 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 242.8 281.4 Interest on convertible bonds net of tax Profit attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 242.8 281.4 millions 2016 2015 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 449.7 449.2 Potentially dilutive ordinary shares 4.9 4.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 454.6 453.6 $ per share 2016 2015 Basic earnings per share 0.54 0.63 Diluted earnings per share 0.53 0.62 Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2016 has been calculated based on profit attributable to equity holders adjusted for the post-tax impact of the early repurchase of the 2017 Convertible Bonds and the post-tax impact of the increase in the fair value of the conversion liability component of the new 2023 Convertible Bonds.
$ in millions 2016 2015 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 242.8 281.4 Adjustment for: Increase in fair value of conversion of the liability component of 2023 Convertible Bonds net of tax 23.0 Loss on Redemption of 2017 Convertible Bonds net of tax 26.2 Adjustable profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 292.0 281.4 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 145 millions 2016 2015 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 449.7 449.2 Potentially dilutive ordinary shares 4.9 4.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 454.6 453.6 $ per share 2016 2015 Basic earnings per share 0.65 0.63 Diluted earnings per share 0.64 0.62 28.
PENSIONS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations.
The Groups pension plans are provided through both defined benefit schemes and defined contribution arrangements.
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom, regulated by the Pensions Regulator, and The Netherlands.
The Groups principal defined benefit pension plan is the Inmarsat Global scheme, which is a UK funded scheme with assets held in a separate fund administered by a corporate trustee: the scheme is closed to new employees.
The trustee is required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The trustees of the pension schemes are responsible for the investment policy with regards to the assets of the fund.
The Group is required to ensure that the plan is fully funded where the future liabilities for benefits are covered by the funds assets.
The Group is also required to make employer contributions at 15% of the members salary to the fund assets.
The size of the asset that can be recognised as a result of a pension surplus should not exceed the recoverable amount and is restricted to the asset ceiling per IAS 19.
The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with the valuation undertaken by professionally qualified and independent actuaries as at 31 December 2016.
The results of the valuation, which have been updated for any material transactions and material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to 31 December 2016, are set out below.
The Group also provides post-employment benefits for some of its employees.
The Groups principal scheme is the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme, which is the provision of healthcare to retired employees and their dependants who were employed before 1 January 1998.
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare benefit plans.
Membership of this plan is multinational, although most staff are currently employed in the UK.
The plans are self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are paid.
The cost of providing these benefits is actuarially determined and accrued over the service period of the active employee groups.
The Groups post-retirement medical liability is capped at CPI plus 1%.
Schemes denominated in local currencies are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and local currencies.
The primary risk to which the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan exposes the Group is the risk arising through a mismatch between the plans assets and its liabilities.
This is primarily made up of a number of strategic investment risks.
The key strategic investment risks inherent in the current investment strategy are as follows: market risk the risk that investment returns on assets are lower than assumed in the actuarial valuation, thereby resulting in the funding level being lower than expected interest rate risk the risk that the assets do not move in line with the value placed on the liabilities in response to changes in interest rates inflation risk similar to interest rate risk but concerning inflation credit risk the risk that payments due to corporate bond investors may not be made active management risk the risk that active managers underperform the markets in which they invest, resulting in lower-than-expected investment returns and currency risk the risk that currency market movements adversely impact investment returns In addition to the investment-related risks, the plan is also subject to the risk that members live longer than expected, or that the financial assumptions used in valuing the liabilities are not borne out in practice.
This could lead to unexpected contributions from the Group being required to meet the benefit payments due.
146 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the Groups pension and post-employment benefits liabilities under IAS 19 are: At At 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Weighted average actuarial assumptions: Discount rate 2.69% 3.92% Future salary increases 3.23% 3.14% Medical cost trend rate 3.57% 3.50% Future pension increases 2.77% 3.01% Mortality assumptions have been updated to reflect experience and expected changes in future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumptions for the Companys pension and post-employment benefits liabilities are as follows: Life Life expectancy expectancy 2016 2015 Male current age 65 88.6 88.5 Female current age 65 89.7 89.6 Mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the individual scheme actuaries and reflect the latest available tables, adjusted for the experience of the Group where appropriate.
For the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension scheme and the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefits for 2016 and 2016, mortality has been assumed to follow the SAPS tables with -1 year age rating for males and CMI 2013 improvement with a long-term trend of 1.5%.
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase, mortality and healthcare cost trend rates.
The sensitivity analysis below is for the Groups principal pension and post-employment benefits schemes, and has been determined based on reasonable possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period assuming that all other assumptions are held constant.
Inmarsat Global defined benefit scheme: Impact on Impact on benefit projected obligation pension cost increase increase Change in assumption decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.25% 6.1% 18.6% Decrease in discount factor of 0.25% 6.5% 18.2% Increase in inflation of 0.25% 6.1% 18.0% Decrease in inflation of 0.25% 5.7% 16.5% Mortality: -2 years for males and -1 year for females 3.4% 9.6% Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme: Impact on benefit Impact on obligation service cost increase increase Change in assumption decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.5% 6.2% Increase in inflation of 0.5% 11.9% Increase in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 20.1% 24.8% Decrease in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 15.9% 19.4% In reality there is an expectation of inter-relationships between the assumptions, for example, between discount rate and inflation.
The above analysis does not take the effect of these inter-relationships into account.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 147 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet are: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations pension 135.9 109.2 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations pension 0.4 0.7 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations post-employment benefits 16.7 17.0 Fair value of defined benefit assets 140.0 127.6 Net defined benefit liability asset recognised in the balance sheet 13.0 0.7 The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions Note 2016 2015 Defined benefit pension asset 17 4.5 19.0 Defined benefit pension and post-employment liability 20 17.5 18.3 Analysis of the movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligations is as follows: PostDefined benefit employment $ in millions pension plan benefits At 1 January 2015 117.2 18.4 Current service cost 2.7 0.2 Past service cost 0.1 Interest cost 4.4 0.7 Remeasurement losses: Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1.5 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 2.5 0.7 Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 2.9 Foreign exchange loss 7.4 1.1 Benefits paid 1.4 0.4 Contributions by pension participants 1.3 At 31 December 2015 109.9 17.0 Current service cost 1.7 0.1 Interest cost 3.6 0.6 Remeasurement losses: Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 37.8 2.0 Foreign exchange loss 16.8 2.7 Benefits paid 0.9 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.0 At 31 December 2016 136.3 16.7 148 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the defined benefit pension plans is as follows: $ in millions 2016 2015 At 1 January 127.6 133.6 Interest income 4.2 5.1 Remeasurement gains losses : Experience return on plan asset excluding interest income 25.6 4.5 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions Actuarial loss gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 0.8 0.1 Contributions by employer 1.5 1.8 Contributions by pension participants 1.0 1.3 Benefits paid 0.6 1.1 Assets distributed on settlement Expenses paid included in service cost 0.2 0.4 Foreign exchange gain 19.9 8.1 At 31 December 140.0 127.6 Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plans are as follows: 2016 2015 PostPostDefined benefit employment Defined benefit employment $ in millions pension plan benefits pension plan benefits Current service cost 1.9 0.1 3.1 0.2 Past service gain 0.1 Net interest income expense 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.7 Foreign exchange loss gain 3.1 2.7 0.7 1.1 4.4 2.0 3.1 0.3 Current service cost is included within employee benefit costs note 7.
The net financing costs together with foreign exchange gains and losses are included within interest payable note 9.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2016 2015 PostPostDefined benefit employment Defined benefit employment $ in millions pension plan benefits pension plan benefits Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1.5 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 37.0 2.0 2.4 0.7 Actuarial gains arising from changes in experience adjustment 25.6 2.9 Return on plan asset excluding interest income 4.5 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset and liability 11.4 2.0 2.3 0.7 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 149 The assets held in respect of the Groups defined benefit schemes were as follows: At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 Percentage of Percentage of total plan total plan Value assets Value assets $ in millions % $ in millions % Equities 36.0 25.7% 36.6 32.93% Cash 1.6 1.1% 0.1 0.07% Bonds 78.5 56.1% 70.0 55.31% Other 23.9 17.1% 20.9 11.68% Fair value of scheme assets 140.0 127.6 The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan assets, which contribute over 95% of the total Group assets, are all invested in pooled investment funds, the majority of which are priced daily, except for the High Lease-to-Value Property, Alternatives and Multi Asset Credit funds, which are priced monthly.
With regard to private debt, the portfolio will be valued on an absolute basis, using the best efforts value on a quarterly basis.
Therefore, fund investments are primarily valued based on the market value capital account statements received from the underlying general partners of the underlying funds.
Capital account statements and unaudited financial statements are distributed approximately 90 days after each quarter.
The fund also distributes US GAAP audited financials, including capital account statements, for each 31 December fiscal year-end around 30 June of the subsequent year.
The assets are split into two portfolios, the growth portfolio and the matching portfolio.
The assets within the growth portfolio are invested so as to achieve an appropriate level of growth above that of the plans liabilities, ensuring a sufficiently diversified portfolio of investments provides the plan with a variety of sources of return, without unduly exposing the plan to a single type of risk.
The assets within the matching portfolio are invested so as to minimise the level of unrewarded risk and ensure the portfolio broadly matches changes in the value of the plans liabilities.
This is achieved by investing in a range of pooled investment funds as outlined in the table above, with the allocation to each fund determined by a combination of the following: the nature of the plans liability structure, the target level of hedging deemed appropriate to reflect the Trustees risk tolerance and a fair value assessment of market levels.
Some of these funds achieve their objectives by utilising a range of bond or bond type instruments, resulting in leveraged exposure which enables the plan to match a greater proportion of its liabilities than would be possible by only holding physical securities.
Instruments utilised within the funds include fixed interest gilts, index-linked gilts, corporate bonds, gilt repos, interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and total return swaps.
The plan does not hold any direct investments in the Group: however, due to the pooled nature of the investment funds, there may be some indirect investment.
The duration of the defined benefit liabilities within the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan is approximately 25 years.
The defined benefit obligation within that plan is split as follows: Active members 54% Deferred members 38% Pensioner members 8% The average age of the active, deferred and pensioner members at the date of the last statutory funding valuation for the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan 31 December 2014 was 54 years, 55 years and 68 years, respectively.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension plan during 2017 are $2.2m.
In 2016 actual contributions under this plan were $0.7m 2015: $1.0m.
Under the current Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan Recovery Plan and Schedule of Contributions there are no further contributions due in respect of the past service deficit revealed as part of the last statutory funding valuation as at 31 December 2014.
The current Schedule of Contributions requires the Company to pay 15% of pensionable salary in respect of the additional accrual of future benefits for members of the defined benefit tier of the Pensionbuilder section and any notional member contributions payable under the SMART arrangement.
Contributions in respect of the Defined Contribution tier and the Pensionsaver section are paid in addition.
The next statutory funding valuation of the plan will be carried out as at 31 December 2017.
As part of this the Trustees and Company will be required to agree a pattern of contributions to cover any deficit revealed by the valuation, along with the rate payable for future accrual of benefits.
This could lead to an increase or decrease from the current level of contributions.
OPERATING LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and other unrecognised contractual commitments are as follows: At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 NonOther NonOther cancellable unrecognised cancellable unrecognised operating contractual operating contractual $ in millions leases commitments Total leases commitments Total Within one year 15.5 5.4 20.9 22.9 22.9 45.8 Within two to five years 50.5 36.4 86.9 45.6 18.7 64.3 After five years 72.1 0.8 72.9 51.1 0.7 51.8 138.1 42.6 180.7 119.6 42.3 161.9 Operating lease commitments primarily relate to leased office space, including the Groups head office located at 99 City Road, London.
Other unrecognised non-cancellable contractual commitments relate to network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
The total of future sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2016 relating to the aforementioned head office lease is $0.2m over one year at 31 December 2015: $0.5m over one year.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 151 In addition, the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Within one year 30.4 16.1 Within two to five years 5.8 32.6 36.2 48.7 The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity and leased equipment.
These amounts are recorded as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms and represent the majority of the Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Within one year 23.3 29.0 Within two to five years 2.5 2.5 25.8 31.5 30.
CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The following table summarises the capital of the Group: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 As per balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents 262.0 177.3 Short-term deposits 395.0 Borrowings 2,551.8 2,163.1 Net borrowings 1,894.8 1,985.8 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,239.7 1,249.3 Capital 3,134.5 3,235.1 The Groups objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may repurchase, refinance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities.
In addition, movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowings gross of deferred finance costs to EBITDA ratio for the year ended 31 December 2016 is 2.43 2015: 2.77.
The Groups liquidity is disclosed in note 3 d. No changes were made in the Groups objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current or preceding year.
152 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS TREASURY MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGY The Groups treasury activities are managed by its treasury department which reports into the Chief Financial Officer.
The treasury department operations are bound by the Board-approved treasury policy and related treasury Operating Manual.
The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include: ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities and maximising return on short-term investments based on counterparty limits and credit ratings Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are on the approved counterparty list approved by the Board.
The Groups foreign exchange policy is not to hedge its foreign currency transactions.
Where there is a material contract with a foreign currency exposure, a specific hedge to match the specific risk will be evaluated and must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer prior to any hedge being undertaken.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39: At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 Derivatives Derivatives Loans and used for Loans and used for $ in millions receivables hedging Total receivables hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet 1 Trade receivables and other 250.7 250.7 310.8 310.8 Cash and cash equivalents 262.0 262.0 177.3 177.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.8 1.8 512.7 1.8 514.5 488.1 488.1 1 Consists of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income see note 17.
At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 Derivatives Fair value Other Derivatives Other used for through profit financial used for financial $ in millions hedging and loss liabilities Total hedging liabilities Total Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings 2,551.8 2,551.8 2,163.1 2,163.1 1 Trade payables and other 236.4 236.4 190.5 190.5 Derivative financial instruments 26.1 133.3 159.4 0.3 0.3 26.1 133.3 2,788.2 2,947.6 0.3 2,353.6 2,353.9 1 Consists of trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals see note 20.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 153 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not significant.
At 31 December 2016 Less than Between Between Over $ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Borrowings 223.6 219.3 216.7 2,741.5 3,401.1 Trade payables and other 213.2 17.9 3.9 1.4 236.4 Derivative financial instruments 5.9 16.9 3.2 133.4 159.4 442.7 254.1 223.8 2,876.3 3,796.9 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022 and 2024, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations on those borrowings are at fixed rates for the term of the borrowing.
At 31 December 2015 Less than Between Between Over $ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Borrowings 204.4 554.3 535.6 1,301.3 2,595.6 Trade payables and other 166.8 1.4 21.0 1.3 190.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 371.5 555.7 556.6 1,302.6 2,786.4 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022, Ex-Im Bank Facilities, EIB Facility and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations assume no changes in floating interest rates from the year end.
FAIR VALUES OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups derivative financial instruments consist of forward foreign currency contracts which are primarily designated as cash flow hedges and the conversion liability component of the new convertible bonds due 2023.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value see further below on the contract date and are re-measured at each reporting date.
The change in the fair value is accounted for differently depending on whether the instrument qualifies for hedge accounting eg where a forward foreign currency transaction is designated as a cash flow hedge or not eg undesignated cash flow hedges and the conversion liability component of the 2023 convertible bond.
Under hedge accounting, the change in fair value initially goes through other comprehensive income.
At the point hedge accounting is discontinued, ie when the hedging instrument expires, is exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, the amounts sitting in other comprehensive income are recycled to the income statement or, where appropriate, capitalised to the balance sheet.
Where hedge accounting doesnt apply, the change in fair value is included in net financing costs in the income statement.
154 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The fair values at the balance sheet date were: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2016 2015 Financial assets: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 0.8 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 1.0 Total derivative financial assets 1.8 Current portion of derivative financial assets 1.7 Non-current portion of derivative financial assets 0.1 Financial liabilities: Conversion liability component of 2023 Convertible Bond 133.4 Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 23.9 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 2.1 0.3 Total derivative financial liabilities 159.4 0.3 Current portion of derivative financial liabilities 5.9 0.3 Non-current portion of derivative financial liabilities 153.5 The full value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
In 2016 there was no hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss or in comprehensive income.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are based on the difference between the contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk-free rate at the period end.
The fair value of the conversion liability component of the Convertible Bonds due 2023 is determined as the difference between the market value of the Convertible Bond and the carrying amount of the liability component of the Convertible Bond.
Both are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The Group has no financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs, ie those that would be classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE The following tables set out the face value and fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2016 and 2015: At 31 December 2016 Maturing Maturing Maturing within between between Fair value Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions Face value 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 Years US$ GBP contracts 124.1 24.8 81.8 17.5 24.5 CAD contracts CAD 50.5 CAD 22.2 CAD 17.5 CAD 10.8 0.3 At 31 December 2015 Maturing Maturing Maturing within between between Fair value Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions Face value 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 Years US$ GBP contracts 10.0 10.0 0.3 0.3 The Group has entered into contracts to build the I-6 satellite.
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts for terms equivalent to when the milestone payments fall due to hedge the exchange rate risk arising from these anticipated milestone payments, which are designated as cash flow hedges.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 155 As at 31 December 2016, the aggregate amount of losses under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the cash flow hedging reserve relating to the exposure on these payments is $24.2m.
The milestone payments will take place at irregular periods throughout each year until 2021, at which time the related cash flow hedges deferred in equity will be reclassified to profit and loss.
NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term investments, trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of borrowings, trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals.
FAIR VALUE OF NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES With the exception of the Senior Notes, the Ex-Im Bank Facilities and the Convertible Bonds, the fair values of all non-derivative financial instruments approximate to the carrying value in the balance sheet.
The fair value of Senior Notes, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values: the fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments see note 16 : the fair value of trade and other receivables and payables, accrued income and costs, and deferred consideration approximate their carrying values see notes 17 and 20 respectively : the carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the period end.
This carrying amount approximately equals fair value see note 19 : the Senior Notes due 2022 are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs and net issuance premium of $6.1m and $5.5m, respectively see note 19.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2022 are based on the market price of the bonds and are reflected in the next table: the Senior Notes due 2024 are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs of $5.6m see note 19.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2024 are based on the market price of the bonds and are reflected in the next table: the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs of $18.6m 2015: $18.0m.
The fair value of the 2011 facility has been based on the implicit interest rate of the 2014 facility see note 19 : and the liability component of the Convertible Bonds is reflected in the balance sheet on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of $7.7m 2015: $nil see note 19.
The fair value of the Convertible Bonds is based on the market price of the bonds and is reflected in the table below.
At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value $ in millions amount amount amount amount Senior Notes due 2022 1,000.0 975.0 1,000.0 996.3 Senior Notes due 2024 400.0 408.3 Ex-Im Bank Facilities 633.4 649.4 714.2 741.4 Convertible Bonds due 2017 326.6 498.6 Convertible Bonds due 2023 549.2 682.6 32.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital commitments as at 31 December 2016 of $972.2m 2015: $1,219.9m.
These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Groups GX, S-band and I-6 satellite programmes.
The Group has not reported the split between tangible assets and intangible assets for these capital commitments, as the necessary information is not available and the cost to develop it would be excessive.
CONTINGENT LIABILITY In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, interest charges, reputational damage and other sanctions.
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In cases where the Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing at the balance sheet date, and it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be recognised based on best estimates and management judgement.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the obligation will only be confirmed by future events, or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had no material contingent liabilities.
156 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 1 March 2017, the Company notified members of its Defined Benefit Pension Plan that the plan will close to future benefit accrual on 31 March 2017 and that from 1 April 2017 members can elect to transfer to the Group Defined Contribution Plan.
It is expected that the majority of members will take up this election.
Since the balance sheet date there have been no other significant events which would require disclosure in the 31 December 2016 Annual Report.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of operations the Group engages in transactions with its equity-owned investees NTS Maritime Limited, Navarino Telecom SA and JSAT Mobile Communications Inc.
These transactions represent sales of airtime and equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged.
Group revenue from the related parties for the 2016 financial year was $nil, $33.1m and $18.2m, respectively 2015: $37.4m, $nil and $22.8m, respectively.
The amount receivable from the related parties at 31 December 2016 was $nil, $9.3m and $1.8m, respectively 2015: $13.1m, $nil and $2.2m, respectively.
Amounts owing to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors as at 31 December 2016 and 2015 were $1.1m and $1.0m, respectively, and relate to remuneration earned in the normal course of operations see note 8.
SUBSIDIARIES At 31 December 2016, the Company had investments in the following subsidiaries and associates: Interest in Interest in issued issued ordinary share ordinary share capital at capital at Country of incorporation 31 December 31 December 1 Principal activity registered address key 2016 2015 Inmarsat Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance PLC Finance company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications England and Wales A 100% 100% ISAT Global Xpress OOO Operating company Russian Federation Y 100% 100% Inmarsat Brasil Limitada Dormant Brazil H 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Two Limited Satellite leasing England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand V 100% 100% Inmarsat Services Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% PT ISAT Operating company Indonesia Q 100% 100% Inmarsat Communications Company LLC Operating company United Arab Emirates AD 49% 49% Inmarsat Group Holdings Inc. Operating company United States C 100% 100% ISAT US Inc. Operating company United States C 100% 100% Inmarsat Government Inc. Operating company United States C 100% 100% Stratos Government Services Inc. Operating company United States D 100% 100% Segovia Commercial Services Inc. Operating company United States D 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions US Inc. Operating company United States D 100% 100% Inmarsat Inc. Holding company United States E 100% 100% Inmarsat US Investments Limited Dormant England and Wales A 100% 100% Europasat Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Employment Company Limited Employment company Jersey T 100% 100% Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited Dormant England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance III Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 157 Interest in Interest in issued issued ordinary share ordinary share capital at capital at Country of incorporation 31 December 31 December 1 Principal activity registered address key 2016 2015 Inmarsat Solutions Canada Inc. Operating company Canada B 100% 100% Stratos Holdings Cyprus Limited Holding company Cyprus K 100% 100% Stratos Gesellschaft fur  mbH.
Operating company Germany L 100% 100% Stratos Global Japan KK Holding company Japan S 100% 100% Stratos Broadband Communications Dormant Kazakhstan U 100% 100% Stratos Investments BV Holding company The Netherlands W 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions B. V. Operating company The Netherlands W 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions SA PTY Limited Operating company South Africa AA 90% 90% Inmarsat Spain S. A.
Operating company Spain AB 100% 100% Inmarsat Hong Kong Limited Operating company Hong Kong N 100% 100% Xantic Brazil Limited Dormant Brazil I 100% 100% Inmarsat IP Company Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Employee Share Plan Trustees Limited Dormant England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Hellas Satellite Services SA Satellite telecommunications Greece M 100% 100% Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Launch Company Limited Operating company Isle of Man R 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Xpress Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat SA Operating company Switzerland AC 100% 100% NewWave Broadband Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Global Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions AS Operating company Norway X 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Pte.
Limited Operating company Singapore Z 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions ehf.
Operating company Iceland O 51% 51% Inmarsat Australia Pty Limited Operating company Australia F 100% 100% TC Communication Pty Limited Operating company Australia G 100% 100% Inmarsat KK Operating company Japan S 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Shanghai Co. Limited Operating company China J 100% 100% Inmarsat India Private Limited Operating company India P 100% 100% Inmarsat Licences Canada Inc. Holding company Canada B 100% 100% Navarino UK Limited Associate England and Wales AE 49% 49% JSAT Mobile Communications Inc.
Associate Japan AF 26.67% 26.67% 1 For the list of registered addresses please refer to the next table.
In accordance with s479A of the Companies Act 2006, the following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit of individual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016: Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited 03688399, Stratos Global Holdings Limited 04113448, Inmarsat Employee Share Plan Trustees Limited 03669306 and Inmarsat Leasing Limited 02487502.
158 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED REGISTERED ADDRESS KEY Key Registered Address A 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX B 34 Glencoe Drive, Box 5754, Donovan's Bus.
Park, Mount Pearl Newfoundland A1C 5X3, Canada C 874 Walker Road, Suite C, City of Dover fide 19904, United States D 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, New Castle fide, United States E 1101 Connecticut Avenue, N. W. Suite 1225 WA 20036, United States F Level 40, Governor Macquarie Tower, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia G Unit A3 Cameron Centre, 255 Rawson Street, Auburn NSW 2144, Australia H Av Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek 50, Suite 172, Room 7, 17th Floor, Sao Paulo, CEP 04543-000, Brazil I City of Niteri, State of Rio fide Janeiro, at Rua Coronel Moreira Csar, 229, room 911, Icara, Zip Code CEP 24230-063, Brazil J 4th and 5th floors of No.
20-4, Ronghui Park, Yuhua Road, Area B, Tianzhu Airport Industrial Zone, Shunyi District, Beijing K 1, Lampousas, Nicosia, 1095, Cyprus L Aarberger Strasse 18, 12205, Berlin, Germany M 280 Kifisias Avenue, Halandri, 152 32, Greece N 19 Floor, Millennium Trade Centre, No.
56 Kwai Cheong Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong O Hlarsmra 10, 201 Kpavogi P B-92, 9th Floor Himalaya House, K. G. Marg, New Delhi, 110001, India Q Jl.
Jaksa Agung R. Suprapto, Sekupang, Batam, 29422, Indonesia R Fort Anne, Douglas, IM1 5PD, Isle of Man S Level 25 Ark Hills Sengokuyama Mori Tower, 1-9-10, Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 106-0032, Japan T 44 Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG, Jersey U Almaty city, microdistrict Orbita-1, 24 building, Kazakhstan V Bell Gully, Lvl 22, Vero Centre, 48 Shortland Street, Auckland, New Zealand W Loire 158-160, 2491 AL, The Hague, Netherlands X Borgundfjordvegen 116, 6017 Alesund, 1504 lesund, Norway Y Bld.
5, 13 Kasatkina Street, 129301, Moscow, Russian Federation Z 11 Lorong 3 Toa Payoh, #01-31, Jackson Square, 319579, Singapore AA Deloitte Place, The Woodlands, 20 Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton, Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa, 2052 AB Prncipe fide Vergara 73, 28006, Madrid, Spain AC Route fide Crassier 19, 1262, Eysins, Switzerland AD Al Maktoum Street, Al Reem Tower, Suite 402, P. O.
Box 27313, Dubai, UAE, United Arab Emirates AE Camburgh House, 27 New Dover Road, Canterbury, Kent CT1 3DN AF Nisso Building #22 8F, Azabudai1-11-10, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-0041, Japan STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 159 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 $ in millions 2016 2015 Assets Non-current assets 1 Investments 1,100.4 1,089.3 2 Other receivables 356.8 77.8 Deferred tax assets 0.7 0.8 1,457.9 1,167.9 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 2.3 1.8 3 Trade and other receivables 9.3 1.2 Current tax assets 5.1 5.1 Restricted cash 0.4 17.1 8.1 Total assets 1,475.0 1,176.0 Liabilities Current liabilities 4 Trade and other payables 33.6 17.5 5 Borrowings 33.6 17.5 Non-current liabilities 5 Borrowings 542.2 330.0 Derivative financial instruments 133.4 675.6 330.0 Total liabilities 709.2 347.5 Net assets 765.8 828.5 Shareholders equity Ordinary shares 0.3 0.3 Share premium 700.4 687.6 Convertible Bonds reserve 56.9 Other reserves 85.0 70.9 Retained earnings 19.9 12.8 Total equity 765.8 828.5 1 Investments consist of a $1,007.8m investment in Inmarsat Holdings Limited 2015: $1,007.8m and $92.4m of capital contributions to Group companies in respect of share-based payments 2015: $81.5m.
2 Other receivables consist of $356.8m amounts due from Group companies 2015: $77.8m.
3 Trade and other receivables consist of $9.3m amounts due from Group companies 2015: $1.2m.
4 Trade and other payables consists of $1.9m due to shareholders in respect of dividends paid during 2016 2015: $1.8m, accruals of $10.8m 2015: $4.2m, amounts due to Group companies of $20.4m 2015: $11.5m and other payables of $0.5m 2015: nil.
5 Borrowings comprise the Convertible Bonds discussed in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 of $154.4m 2015: $202.7m.
The financial statements of the Company, registered number 4886072, on pages 159 to 160 were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: RUPERT PEARCE TONY BATES Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 160 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 Ordinary Share Share share premium Equity option Other Retained 1 $ in millions capital account reserve reserve reserve earnings Total Balance at 1 January 2015 0.3 687.6 56.9 62.5 2.9 34.0 838.4 Profit for the year 202.7 202.7 Dividends declared 224.1 224.1 Share-based payments 11.3 0.2 11.5 Balance at 31 December 2015 0.3 687.6 56.9 73.8 2.9 12.8 828.5 Share-based payments 14.1 0.1 14.0 Early repurchase of 2017 convertible bonds 8.8 8.8 Transfer equity reserve to retained earnings 48.1 48.1 Dividends declared 235.1 235.1 Scrip dividend cash reinvestment 8.9 8.9 Scrip dividend share issue 8.9 8.9 Issue of share capital 3.9 3.9 Profit for the year 154.4 154.4 Balance at 31 December 2016 0.3 700.4 87.9 2.9 19.9 765.8 1 The other reserve relates to ordinary shares held by the employee share trust.
