RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Directorate HENDRIK J DU TOIT 54 ZARINA BM BASSA 52 Executive directors Investec Asset Management chief BAcc, DipAcc, CA SA details as at 30 June 2016 executiveofficer Board committees: DLC audit, BCom Law, BCom Hons cum laude, STEPHEN KOSEFF 64 Investecplc and Investec Bank plc audit, MCom cum laude, MPhil Cambridge Chief executive officer Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA Appointed to the board in December 2010. audit, DLC board risk and capital and DLCremuneration Board committees: DLC board risk After lecturing economics at the University and capital, DLC capital and DLC social of Stellenbosch, Hendrik joined the Appointed to the board in November 2014. andethics Investment division of Old Mutual from Zarina is the executive chairman of Songhai where he moved to Investec in 1991 as Appointed to the board in October 1986.
A former partner of Ernst & Young portfolio manager and later chief executive Inc. she joined the Absa Group in 2002 and officer of Investec Asset Management.
He has was an executive director and a member had diverse experience within Investec Other directorships include: Investec of the banks executive committee, with as chief accounting officer and general Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd, accountability for private banking.
She has manager of banking, treasury and Investec Asset Management Limited as well previously chaired the Public Accountants merchantbanking.
as their subsidiaries and Naspers Limited.
and Auditors Board, the Auditing Standards Board and the Accounting Other directorships include: Investec Standards Board and has been a member Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc and a Non-executive directors of the JSE GAAP Monitoring Panel.
details as at 30 June 2016 Other directorships include: Financial BERNARD KANTOR 66 Services Board, Investec Bank Limited, FANI TITI 54 Kumba Iron Ore Limited, Oceana Group Managing director Chairman Limited, Sun International Limited, and CTA BSc Hons, MA, MBA Woolworths HoldingsLimited.
Board committees: DLC board risk Board committees: DLC remuneration, and capital, DLC capital and DLC social LAUREL C BOWDEN 51 DLC board risk and capital, DLC andethics nominations and directors affairs and National Higher Diploma Engineering, Appointed to the board in June 1987.
DLCsocial and ethics BSc, MBA Bernard joined Investec in 1980.
He has Appointed to the board in January 2004.
Board committees: DLC audit, Investec plc had varied experience within Investec as a and Investec Bank plc audit, Investec Limited Fani is chairman of Investec Bank Limited, manager of the trading division, marketing and Investec Bank Limited audit Investec Bank plc and former chairman manager and chief operating officer.
of Tiso Group Limited and former deputy Appointed to the board in January 2015.
Other directorships include: Phumelela chairman of the Bidvest Group.
Laurel is a partner at 83 North, where her Gaming and Leisure Limited, Investec Bank Other directorships include: Investec areas of focus include internet, enterprise Limited, Investec Bank plc and a number of Bank Limited chairman, Investec Bankplc software and fintech.
Laurel has over Investec subsidiaries.
chairman, Investec Employee Benefits 15years investment experience and Limited and Investec Asset Management was previously a director at GE Capital in GLYNN R BURGER 59 Holdings Pty Ltd, Investec Asset London, where she was responsible for Group risk and finance director Management Limited, Kumba Iron acquisitions in consumer and transport BAcc, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBL Ore Limited chairman and MRC finance in Europe.
Media Pty Ltd. Board committees: DLC board risk and Other directorships include: Bluevine capital and DLC capital Capital Inc. Ebury Partners Limited, 83North, G&T Ventures Limited, iZettle Appointed to the board in July 2002.
AB, Notonthehighstreet Enterprises Limited and Wonga Group Limited.
His positions within Investec have included chief accounting officer, group risk manager and joint managing director for South Africa.
Other directorships include: InvestecBank Limited and a number of Investec subsidiaries.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 137 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Directorate continued Other directorships include: Gadco CHERYL A CAROLUS 58 CHARLES R JACOBS 49 Cooperatief U.
A. Seplat Petroleum BA Law, BEd, Honorary doctorate in Law LLB Development Company plc and SmartmaticLimited.
Board committees: DLC social and ethics Board committees: DLC remuneration Appointed to the board in March 2005.
Appointed to the board in August 2014.
KHUMO L SHUENYANE 45 Associate CA Member of the Institute Cheryl acted as the South African High Charles is a partner of Linklaters LLP of Chartered Accountants in England Commissioner to London between 1998 specialising in public and private M&A, and Wales, Bachelor in Social Science and 2001 and was chief executive officer capital raisings and initial public offerings, International studies with Economics ofSouth African Tourism.
joint ventures, corporate governance and other corporate work.
Other directorships include: fide Beers Board committees: DLC audit, Investecplc and Investec Bank plc audit, Consolidated Mines Limited, Gold Charles has been a solicitor at Linklaters Fields Limited, Mercedes-Benz South for over 24years and has been a partner Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit and DLC board risk and capital Africa Pty Ltd, WWF South Africa and since1999.
International, IQ Business Pty Ltd, Other directorships include: Fresnillo plc Appointed to the board in August 2014.
Ponahalo Capital Pty Ltd, executive non-executive director, senior independent chairperson of Peotona Group Holdings Khumo is a chartered accountant England director and chairman of the remuneration Pty Ltd, director of a number of the and Wales, BEcon and International committee.
Peotona group companies and International Studies and was previously group chief Crisis Group.
officer Mergers and Acquisitions and IAN R KANTOR 69 International Business Development of PERRY KO CROSTHWAITE 67 BSc Eng, MBA MTN Group Limited.
Until 2007, Khumo was head of Principal Investments at Senior independent director Appointed to the board in July 1980.
MA Hons in modern languages Ian is a co-founder of Investec, served as Other directorships include: Investec Bank Board committees: DLC remuneration and the chief executive of Investec Bank Limited Limited, Investec Employee Benefits Limited DLC nominations and directors affairs until 1985 and was the former chairman of and Investec Property Fund Limited.
Appointed to the board in June 2010.
PETER RS THOMAS 71 Other directorships include: IdB Holdings Perry is a former chairman of Investec SA in which Investec Limited indirectly CA SA Investment Banking and Securities and holds an 8.3% interest, Bank Insinger director of Investec Bank plc.
Board committees: DLC audit, fide Beaufort NV where he is chairman of Investecplc and Investec Bank plc audit, Other directorships include: Investec the management board, Investec Asset Investec Limited and Investec Bank Bank plc, Melrose Industries plc, Investec Management Holdings Pty Ltd and Limited audit, DLC board risk and capital, Holdings Ireland Limited and Investec Investec Asset Management Limited.
DLCnominations and directors affairs and Capital and Investments Ireland Limited.
DLCsocial and ethics LORD MALLOCH-BROWN KCMG DAVID FRIEDLAND 63 62 Appointed to the board in June 1981.
BCom, CA SA BA Hons History, MA Political Science Peter was the former managing director of Board committees: DLC audit, The Unisec Group Limited.
Board committees: DLC social and ethics Investecplc and Investec Bank plc audit, Other directorships include: Investec Appointed to the board in August 2014.
Investec Limited and Investec Bank Bank Limited, various Investec subsidiaries, Limited audit, DLCboard risk and capital, Lord Malloch-Brown is a former chairman JCI Limited and various unlisted companies.
DLC capital and DLC nominations and of Europe, Middle East and Africa at directorsaffairs Footnotes FTIConsulting.
Bradley Fried resigned as a director with Appointed to the board in March 2013.
From 2007 to 2009, Lord Malloch-Brown effect from 1 April 2016. was a UK government minister.
Lord Haruko Fukuda OBE resigned as a David is a former partner of both Arthur Malloch-Brown was formerly the deputy director with effect from 6 August 2015.
Andersen and KPMG Inc. where he also secretary-general of the United Nations served as head of audit and risk in KPMG, Details of the Investec committees as well as development specialist at the Cape Town.
can be found in Investecs 2016 World Bank and United Nations and a integrated annual report.
Other directorships include: Investec communications consultant and journalist Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc, The with wide ranging experience of boards.
Details of the board members of Foschini Group Limited, Pick n Pay Stores our major subsidiaries are Limited and Pres Les Pty Ltd. available on our website.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 138
