ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Directors responsibility statement The following statement, which should The group audit committee, together and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
be read in conjunction with the auditors with the Internal Audit department, plays report set out on page 152, is made with a an integral role in matters relating to view to distinguishing for stakeholders the financial and internal control, accounting Approval of annual respective responsibilities of the directors policies, reporting and disclosure.
and of the auditors in relation to the special financial statements To the best of our knowledge and belief, purpose consolidated annual financial based on the above, the directors are The directors report which statements.
satisfied that no material breakdown in the appears on pages 145 to 148 operation of the system of internal control The directors are responsible for the wasapproved by the board and procedures has occurred during the ofdirectors on 15June 2016. preparation, integrity and objectivity of year under review.
Theannual financial statements the special purpose consolidated annual of the company, which are financial statements that fairly present the The group consistently adopts appropriate setouton pages 237 to 245, state of affairs of the company and the and recognised accounting policies wereapproved by the board group at the end of the financial year and and these are supported by reasonable ofdirectors on 9June2016.
the net income and cash flows for the judgements and estimates on a consistent Thespecial purpose consolidated year, and other information contained in basis and provides additional disclosures annual financial statements of the thisreport.
when compliance with the specific group on pages 153 to 236 were requirements in International Financial To enable the directors to meet these approved by the board of Reporting Standards IFRS are insufficient responsibilities: directors on 15 June 2016. to enable users to understand the impact The board and management set The directors are responsible for the of particular transactions, other events and maintenance and integrity of the corporate standards and management implements conditions on the groups financial position and financial information included on the systems of internal controls and and financial performance.
Legislation in the accounting and information systems The special purpose consolidated annual United Kingdom governing the preparation aimed at providing reasonable financial statements have been prepared in and dissemination of the annual financial assurance that assets are safeguarded accordance with accounting policies set statements may differ from legislation in and the risk of fraud, error or loss is out on pages 158 to 166. other jurisdictions.
These controls, contained in established The directors are of the opinion, based Signed on behalf of the board policies and procedures, include the on their knowledge of the company, proper delegation of responsibilities key processes in operation and specific and authorities within a clearly defined enquiries that adequate resources exist framework, effective accounting to support the group on a going concern procedures and adequate segregation basis over the next year.
These annual Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor of duties financial statements have been prepared Chief executive officer Managing director onthatbasis.
The groups internal audit function, 15 June 2016 which operates unimpeded and It is the responsibility of the independent independently from operational auditors to report on the special purpose management, and has unrestricted consolidated annual financial statements.
access to the group audit committee, Their report to the members of the appraises and, when necessary, company is set out on page 152 of this recommends improvements in the report.
As far as the directors are aware, system of internal controls and there is no relevant audit information of accounting practices, based on audit which the companys auditors are unaware.
plans that take cognisance of the All steps which ought to have been taken relative degrees of risk of each function as directors have been completed in order or aspect of the business to be aware of the relevant audit information Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 145
