ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Accounting policies in associated undertakings or joint venture Basis of presentation Presentation of holdings arise in which the group has no These annual financial statements have information strategic intention, these investments are been prepared to present the financial classified as venture capital holdings and Disclosure under IFRS 7 Financial position and results of Investec plc and are designated as held at fair value through Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1 its subsidiaries as if the contractual profit or loss.
Presentation of Financial Statements: arrangements which create the dual Capital Disclosures relating to the nature For equity accounted associates, the listed company DLC structure did not and extent of risks have been included consolidated annual financial statements exist and, with this exception and the in sections marked as audited in the risk include the attributable share of the exclusion of certain other remuneration management report on pages 45 to 119. results and reserves of associated and related party disclosures, are prepared undertakings.
The groups interests in in accordance with International Financial Certain disclosures required under IAS24 associated undertakings are included in the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Related Party Disclosures have been consolidated balance sheet at cost plus by the European Union EU.
For an included in the section marked as audited the post-acquisition changes in the groups understanding of the financial position, in the remuneration report in Investecs share of the net assets of the associate.
results and cash flows of the Investec DLC integrated annual report.
group, the user is referred to Investecs The consolidated balance sheet reflects integrated annual report.
the associated undertakings net of Basis of consolidation accumulated impairment losses.
Investec DLC group consists of two As discussed above, these annual financial separate legal entities, being Investecplc statements have been prepared to All intergroup balances, transactions and Investec Limited, that operate under present the financial position and results and unrealised gains or losses within the a DLC structure.
The effect of the DLC of Investecplc and its subsidiaries as if the group that do not reflect an impairment to structure is that Investec plc and its the asset, are eliminated in full regarding contractual arrangements which create the subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its DLC structure did not exist.
subsidiaries and to the extent of the interest subsidiaries operate together as a single in an associate.
economic entity, with neither assuming a All subsidiaries or structured entities are consolidated when the group controls an dominant role, and accordingly are reported investee.
The group controls an investee Segmental reporting as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
if it is exposed to, or has rights to variable An operating segment is a component These group annual financial statements returns from its involvement with the of the group that engages in business are prepared in accordance with IFRS, investee and has the ability to affect those activities from which it may earn revenues as adopted by the EU which comply returns through its power over the investee.
and incur expenses, including revenues with IFRSs as issued by the International The financial results of subsidiaries are and expenses that relate to transactions Accounting Standards Board IASB.
included in the consolidated annual financial with any of the groups other components, At31March 2016, IFRS as endorsed by statements of the group from the date on whose operating results are reviewed the EU are identical in all material respects which control is obtained until the date the regularly by chief operating decision-makers to current IFRS applicable to the group, which include members of the board and group can no longer demonstrate control.
with differences only in the effective dates of for which discrete financial information The group performs a reassessment of certain standards.
However, the group has isavailable.
control whenever there is a change in the early adopted these relevant standards to The groups segmental reporting is substance of the relationship between ensure compliance with both frameworks.
presented in the form of a business Investec and an investee.
The business analysis is The group annual financial statements have ownership interest of a subsidiary, without presented in terms of the groups three been prepared on a historical cost basis, a loss of control, is accounted for as an principal business divisions, namely, Asset except for investment properties, availableequity transaction.
Investec also holds Management, Wealth & Investment and for-sale investments, derivative financial investments, for example private equity Specialist Banking.
instruments, financial assets and financial investments, which give rise to significant, liabilities held at fair value through profit but not majority, voting rights.
Assessing Group costs that are disclosed separately or loss or subject to hedge accounting, these voting rights and whether Investec largely relate to group brand and marketing and liabilities for pension fund surpluses controls these entities requires judgement costs and a portion of executive and and deficits that have been measured at that affects the date at which subsidiaries support functions which are associated fairvalue.
These costs are not incurred by the operating divisions and The accounting policies adopted by the Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, are necessary to support the operational group are consistent with the prior year.
in which the group exercises significant functioning of the group.
influence over operating and financial Standards which became effective during policies, are treated as interests in Business combinations the year did not have an impact on associated undertakings.
and goodwill associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method from the date Business combinations are accounted that significant influence commences for using the acquisition method.
The until the date that significant influence cost of an acquisition is measured as the ceases.
In circumstances where interests aggregate of the consideration transferred Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 158 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Accounting policies continued measured at the acquisition date fair value Where goodwill forms part of a cash Foreign operations are subsidiaries, and the amount of any prior non-controlling generating unit and part of the operation interests in associated undertakings or interest in the acquiree.
For each business within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill branches of the group, the activities of combination, the group measures the nonassociated with the operation disposed of which are based in a functional currency controlling interest in the acquiree either is included in the carrying amount of the other than that of the reporting entity.
at fair value or at the proportionate share operation when determining the gain or loss Thefunctional currency of group entities is of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
on disposal of the operation.
determined based on the primary economic Acquisition costs incurred are expensed environment in which the entity operates.
Goodwill disposed of in these immediately in the income statement.
circumstances is measured based on the Foreign currency transactions are translated When the group acquires a business, it relative values of the operation disposed into the functional currency of the entity assesses the financial assets and liabilities of and the portion of the cash-generating in which the transactions arise based on assumed for appropriate classification and unitsretained.
rates of exchange ruling at the date of the the designation in accordance with the transactions.
contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition Share-based At each balance sheet date foreign currency date.
This includes the separation of payments to employees items are translated as follows: embedded derivatives in host contracts by The group engages in equity-settled the acquiree.
Monetary items other than monetary share-based payments in respect of If the business combination is achieved in items that form part of the net services received from employees.
The fair stages, the acquisition date fair value of the investment in a foreign operation are value of the services received in respect groups previously held equity interest in translated using closing rates, with gains of equity-settled share-based payments is the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at or losses recognised in the income determined by reference to the fair value each acquisition date through the income statement of the shares or share options on the statement.
date of grant to the employee.
The cost Exchange differences arising on of the share-based payment, together Any contingent consideration to be monetary items that form part of the with a corresponding increase in equity, is transferred by the group will be recognised net investment in a foreign operation recognised in the income statement over at fair value at the acquisition date.
are determined using closing rates and the period the service conditions of the Subsequent changes to the fair value of the recognised as a separate component grant are met with the amount changing contingent consideration, which is deemed of equity foreign currency translation according to the number of awards to be an asset or liability, will be recognised reserve upon consolidation and is expected to vest.
The cumulative expense in accordance with IAS 39 either in the reclassified to the income statement income statement or as a change to other recognised for equity-settled transactions comprehensive income.
If the contingent at each reporting date until the vesting upon disposal of the net investment consideration is classified as equity, it will date reflects the extent to which the Non-monetary items that are measured not be remeasured until it is finally settled vesting period has expired and the groups at historical costs are translated using within equity.
best estimate of the number of equity the exchange rates ruling at the date of instruments that will ultimately vest.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, the transaction.
being the excess of the aggregate of the Fair value measurements are based on consideration transferred and the amount On consolidation, the results and financial option pricing models, taking into account recognised for non-controlling interest over the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the position of foreign operations are translated the net identifiable assets acquired and underlying equity instrument, expected into the presentation currency of the group liabilities assumed.
If this consideration dividends and current share prices.
as follows: and amount recognised for non-controlling interest is less than the fair values of Where the terms of an equity-settled Assets and liabilities for each balance the identifiable net assets acquired, the award are modified, the minimum expense sheet presented are translated at discount on acquisition is recognised recognised in staff costs is the expense the closing rate at the date of the directly in the income statement as a gain in as if the terms had not been modified.
balancesheet the year of acquisition.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification which increases the total Income and expense items are After initial recognition, goodwill is fair value of the share-based payment translated at exchange rates ruling at measured at cost less any accumulated arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the date of the transaction impairment losses.
The group tests goodwill the employee as measured at the date acquired in a business combination for All resulting exchange differences are ofmodification.
impairment annually, irrespective of whether recognised in other comprehensive an indication of impairment exists and in income foreign currency translation accordance with IAS 36.
Foreign currency reserve, which is recognised in the For the purpose of impairment testing, income statement on disposal of the transactions and goodwill acquired in a business foreign operation foreign operations combination is, from the acquisition date, Cash flow items are translated at the allocated to each of the groups cash The presentation currency of the group exchange rates ruling at the date of generating units that are expected to is Pounds Sterling, being the functional benefit from the combination.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 159 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Accounting policies continued lieu of corporate finance fees are included in Revenue recognition Financial instruments investment portfolio and valued accordingly.
Revenue consists of interest income, fee and Financial instruments are initially recognised commission income, investment income, at their fair value.
For financial assets Dividend income is recognised when trading income arising from customer flow, the groups right to receive payment is or financial liabilities not held at fair trading income arising from balance sheet value through profit or loss, transaction established.
management and other trading activities and costs that are directly attributable to the Included in other operating income is other operating income.
acquisition or issue of the financial assets incidental rental income, gains on realisation or financial liabilities are included in the Revenue is recognised when it can be of properties other than investment initial measurement.
All other transaction reliably measured and it is probable that properties which is included in investment costs are recorded in the income statement the economic benefits will flow to the entity.
income, operating lease income, income Revenue related to provision of services from interests in associated undertakings is recognised when the related services Regular way purchase and sales and revenue from consolidated private are performed.
Revenue is measured at transactions in respect of financial assets equity investments.
Operating costs the fair value of the consideration received that require delivery of a financial instrument associated with these investments are orreceivable.
within the time frame established by market included in operating costs in the income convention are recorded at trade date.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest FINANCIAL ASSETS AND rate method.
Fees charged on lending Fair value measurement LIABILITIES HELD AT FAIR VALUE transactions are included in the effective THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS yield calculation to the extent that they Fair value is the price that would be form an integral part of the effective interest received to sell an asset or paid to transfer Financial instruments held at fair value rate yield, but exclude those fees earned a liability in an orderly transaction between through profit or loss include all instruments for a separately identifiable significant act, market participants at the measurement classified as held-for-trading and those which are recognised upon completion of date in the principal or, in its absence, instruments designated as held at fair value the act.
Fees and commissions charged the most advantageous market to which through profit or loss.
inlieu of interest are recognised as income the group has access at that date.
The as part of the effective interest rate on the Financial instruments classified as heldfair value of a liability reflects its nonunderlyingloan.
for-trading or designated as held at fair performance risk.
value through profit or loss are initially The effective interest rate method is based When available, the group measures the recorded at fair value on the balance sheet on the estimated life of the underlying fair value of an instrument using the quoted with changes in fair value subsequently instrument and where this estimate is not price in an active market for that instrument.
recognised in the income statement.
readily available, the contractual life.
Financial instruments are classified as A market is regarded as active if trading when they are held with the Fee and commission income includes transactions for the asset or liability take intention of short-term disposal, held with fees earned from providing advisory place with sufficient frequency and volume the intention of generating short-term profit, services as well as portfolio management to provide pricing information on an or are derivatives which are not designated and includes rental income from ongoing basis.
as part of effective hedges.
Investment instruments designated as held at fair value advisory and management fees are If there is no quoted price in an active through profit or loss are designated as accrued over the period to which the market, then the group uses valuation such on initial recognition of the instrument income relates.
Performance fees are techniques that maximise the use of and remain in this classification until recognised when they become receivable.
relevant observable inputs and minimise the derecognition.
No revenue is recognised if there are use of unobservable inputs.
The chosen significant uncertainties regarding valuation technique incorporates all of the Financial assets and liabilities are recovery of the consideration due.
factors that market participants would take designated as held at fair value through into account in pricing a transaction.
profit or loss only if: Investment income includes income, other than margin from securities held for If an asset or a liability measured at fair they eliminate or significantly reduce the purpose of generating interest yield, value has a bid price and an ask price, a measurement or recognition dividends and capital appreciation.
then the group measures assets and long inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities positions at a bid price and liabilities and Customer flow trading income includes or recognising the gains and losses on short positions at an ask price.
income from trading activities arising from them on different bases: or making and facilitating client activities.
The group classifies disclosed fair values a group of financial assets, financial according to a hierarchy that reflects the Trading income arising from balance sheet liabilities or both is managed and its significance of observable market inputs.
management and other trading activities performance is evaluated on a fair value consists of proprietary trading income and A transfer is made between the hierarchy basis in accordance with a documented other gains or losses arising from balance levels when the inputs have changed risk management or investment strategy sheet management.
or there has been a change in valuation and information about the group is Trading profit includes the unrealised profit method.
Transfers are deemed to provided internally on that basis to the occur at the end of each semi-annual on trading portfolios, which are marked-togroups key management personnel: market daily.
Equity investments received in reportingperiod.
and Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 160 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Accounting policies continued a contract contains one or more Losses arising from impairment of such gain or loss previously recognised in other embedded derivatives which investments are recognised in the income comprehensive income is recognised in the statement line impairment losses on loans income statement.
Interest earned while significantly modifies the cash flows that and advances.
holding available-for-sale financial assets would be required by the contract and is reported in the income statement as is not clearly prohibited from separation Interest on impaired financial assets is interest income using the effective interest from the host contract and the group recognised using the rate of interest used rate.
Dividends earned while holding has designated the entire hybrid to discount the future cash flows for the available-for-sale financial assets are contract as a financial instrument at purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
recognised in the income statement when fairvalue through profit or loss.
the right to payment has been established.
SECURITISATION CREDIT HELD-TO-MATURITY FINANCIAL If an available-for-sale instrument is INVESTMENT AND TRADING determined to be impaired, the respective ASSETS ACTIVITIES EXPOSURES cumulative unrealised losses previously Held-to-maturity financial assets are nonrecognised in other comprehensive income The group makes use of securitisation derivative financial instruments with fixed vehicles as a source of finance, as a means are included in the income statement in the or determinable payments and maturity of risk transfer and to leverage returns period in which the impairment is identified.
dates which the group has the intention through the retention of equity tranches andability to hold to maturity.
Subsequent Impairments on available-for-sale equity in low default rate portfolios.
The group instruments are not reversed once to initial recognition, held-to-maturity assets predominantly focuses on the securitisation recognised in the income statement.
are measured at amortised cost using of lease receivables.
The group also trades the effective interest rate method, less in structured credit investments.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of impairment losses.
a debt instrument classified as availableThe structured entities are consolidated for-sale increases and the increase can be Amortised cost is calculated by taking under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial objectively related to an event occurring into account any discount or premium on Statements when the group has exposure after the impairment loss was recognised acquisition and fees that are an integral to or rights to, variable returns from its in the income statement, the impairment part of the effective interest rate.
The involvement with the investee and has the loss is reversed, limited to the impairment amortisation is included in interest income ability to affect those returns through its value previously recognised in the in the income statement.
The losses arising power over the investee.
from impairment of such investments are Loans and advances that are originated recognised in the income statement.
are transferred to structured entities, and FINANCIAL LIABILITIES the structured entities issue debt securities LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Financial liabilities are classified as nonto external investors to fund the purchase trading, held-for-trading or designated as of the securitised assets.
When the group Loans and receivables are non-derivative held at fair value through profit or loss.
consolidates the structured entity, the financial assets with fixed or determinable group recognises the assets and liabilities payments that are not quoted in an active Non-trading liabilities are recorded at on a gross basis.
When the group does market and exclude the following: amortised cost applying the effective not consolidate the structured entity, the interest rate method.
Those that the group intends to trade in, securitised assets are derecognised and which are classified as held-for-trading only any position still held by the group in Held-for-trading liabilities or liabilities and those that the group designates at the structured entity is reflected.
designated as held at fair value through fair value through profit or loss profit or loss are measured at fair value.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE Those that the group designates as All changes in fair value of financial liabilities FINANCIAL ASSETS available-for-sale are recognised in the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those Those for which the group may not which are designated as such or do not DAY-ONE PROFIT OR LOSS recover substantially all of its initial qualify to be classified as designated at fair investment, other than because of credit When the transaction price differs from value through profit or loss, held to-maturity, deterioration, which is accounted for as the fair value of other observable current or loans and receivables.
market transactions in the same instrument strategically held equity instruments that are or based on the valuation technique whose not interests in associated undertakings, joint Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and ventures or subsidiaries of the group.
Further, variables include only data from observable receivables are measured at amortised certain debt instruments that are held at markets, the difference between the cost, using the effective interest rate transaction price and fair value is recognised fair value due to being quoted on an active method, less impairment losses.
The immediately in the income statement.
market, which are neither actively traded nor effective interest rate represents the rate held-to-maturity instruments, are classified as that exactly discounts future projected cash In cases where fair value is determined available-for-sale financial assets.
flows over the expected life of the financial using data which is not observable, the instrument, to the net carrying amount of difference between the transaction price Financial assets classified as availablethe financial instrument.
Included in the and model value is only recognised in for-sale are measured at fair value with calculation of the effective interest rate is unrealised gains or losses recognised the income statement when the inputs any discount or premium on acquisition and directly in other comprehensive income become observable, or when the fees that are an integral part of the effective in the available-for-sale reserve.
When instrument is derecognised or over the life interest rate.
the asset is disposed of, the cumulative of thetransaction.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 161 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Accounting policies continued are entered into for trading purposes are IMPAIRMENTS OF FINANCIAL DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL treated in the same way as instruments ASSETS HELD AT AMORTISED ASSETS AND LIABILITIES thatare held-for-trading.
COST A financial asset, or a portion thereof, is Credit derivatives are entered into for derecognised when the groups rights to Financial assets carried at amortised cost trading purposes.
Credit derivatives are cash flows have expired or when the group are impaired if there is objective evidence initially recognised at their fair values, being has transferred its rights to cash flows that the group would not receive cash the transaction price of the derivative.
relating to the financial assets and either flows according to the original contractual Subsequently the derivatives are carried a the group has transferred substantially terms.
Financial assets are assessed for at fair value, with movements in fair value impairment at each balance sheet date allthe risks and rewards associated with through profit or loss, based on the and when an indicator of impairment the financial assets or b the group has current market price or remeasured price.
neither transferred nor retained substantially The counterparty risk from derivative all the risks and rewards associated with The test for impairment is based either transactions is taken into account when the financial assets but has transferred on specific financial assets or collectively reporting the fair value of derivative control of the assets.
on a portfolio of similar homogeneous positions.
The adjustment to the fair value is assets.
Over and above individual known as the credit value adjustment CVA.
A financial liability is derecognised when it collective impairments raised at specific is extinguished, that is when the obligation portfolio levels, the group recognises is discharged, cancelled or expired.
When HEDGE ACCOUNTING a collective impairment allowance at a an existing financial liability is replaced or The group applies either fair value or cash central level within the Specialist Banking modified with substantially different terms, flow hedge or hedge of net investments in business segment that takes into account such a replacement or modification is treated foreign operations accounting when the macroeconomic factors, mainly driven as a derecognition of the original liability transactions meet the specified hedge by data related to the prevailing credit and the recognition of a new liability.
To qualify for hedge markets and which indicate incurred but difference in the respective carrying amounts accounting treatment, the group ensures not specifically identified losses across is recognised in the income statement.
that all of the following conditions are met: the loan portfolios that is, exposures in all business segments.
Assets specifically At inception of the hedge, the group RECLASSIFICATION OF identified as impaired are excluded from the formally documents the relationship FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS collectiveassessment.
between the hedging instrument s The group may reclassify, in certain rare and hedged item s including the Impairments are credited to an allowance circumstances, non-derivative financial risk management objectives and the account which is carried against the carrying assets out of the held-for-trading category strategy in undertaking the hedge value of financial assets.
Interest continues and into the available-for-sale, loans transaction.
Also at the inception of the to be accrued on the reduced carrying and receivables, or held-to-maturity hedge relationship, a formal assessment amount based on the original effective categories.
It may also reclassify, in certain is undertaken to ensure the hedging interest rate of the asset.
Loans together circumstances, financial instruments out instrument is expected to be highly with the associated allowance are written off of the available-for-sale category and effective in offsetting the designated risk when there is no realistic prospect of future into the loans and receivables category.
A hedge is expected recovery and all collateral has been realised Reclassifications are recorded at fair to be highly effective if the changes or transferred to the group.
value at the date of reclassification, which in fair value or cash flows attributable An allowance for impairment is only becomes the new amortised cost.
to the hedged risk during the period reversed when there is objective evidence for which the hedge is designated are that the credit quality has improved to the expected to offset in a range of 80% DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS extent that there is reasonable assurance of to125% timely collection of principal and interest in All derivative instruments of the group terms of the original contractual agreement.
are recorded on the balance sheet at For cash flow hedges, a forecasted fair value.
Positive and negative fair transaction that is the subject of the The impairment is calculated as the values are reported as assets and hedge must be highly probable and difference between the carrying value of .
must present an exposure to variation the asset and the expected cash flows in cash flows that could ultimately affect including net expected proceeds on Derivative positions are entered into either the income statement realisation of collateral discounted at for trading purposes or as part of the the original effective rate.
Impairments of groups asset and liability management The effectiveness of the hedge can be financial assets held at amortised cost are activities to manage exposures to interest reliably measured, i. e. the fair value or recognised in the income statement.
rate and foreign currency risks.
Both cash flows of the hedged item that are realised and unrealised profit or losses attributable to the hedged risk and the To cater for any shortfall between regulatory arising on derivatives are recognised in the fair value of the hedging instrument can provision requirements in the respective income statement as part of trading income be reliably measured jurisdictions and impairments based on the other than circumstances in which cash principles above, a transfer is made from The hedge effectiveness is assessed flow hedging is applied as detailed in the distributable to non-distributable reserves, on an ongoing basis and determined hedge accounting section below.
being the regulatory general risk reserve.
actually to have been highly effective The non-distributable regulatory risk Derivative instruments entered into as throughout the financial reporting reserve ensures that minimum regulatory economic hedges which do not qualify periods for which the hedge provisioning requirements are maintained.
for hedge accounting and derivatives that wasdesignated.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 162 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Accounting policies continued For qualifying fair value hedges, the change Dividends on ordinary shares are EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES in fair value of the hedging instrument recognised as a deduction from equity at To the extent that a derivative may be is recognised in the income statement.
the earlier of payment date or the date that embedded in a hybrid contract and the Changes in fair value of the hedged item it is approved by Investec plc shareholders.
hybrid contract is not carried at fair value that is attributable to the hedged risk are with changes in fair value recorded in the also recognised in the income statement.
SALE AND REPURCHASE income statement, the embedded derivative AGREEMENTS INCLUDING is separated from the host contract and For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect SECURITIES BORROWING AND of non-financial assets and liabilities, accounted for as a standalone derivative if and only if: LENDING the change in fair value of the hedging instrument, relating to the effective portion The economic characteristics and Securities sold subject to a commitment is initially recognised directly in other to repurchase, at a fixed price or a selling risks of the embedded derivative are comprehensive income in the cash flow not closely related to the economic price plus a lenders return, remain on hedge reserve and is included in the characteristics and risks of the balance sheet.
Proceeds received are initial cost of any asset liability recognised hostcontract recorded as a liability on balance sheet or in all other cases released to the under repurchase agreements and cash income statement when the hedged firm A separate instrument with the same collateral on securities lent.
Securities commitment or forecasted transaction terms as the embedded derivative would that are purchased under a commitment affects net profit.
If the forecast transaction meet the definition of a derivative.
to resell the securities at a future date or firm commitment is no longer expected are not recognised on the balance sheet.
to occur, the balance included in other OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL The consideration paid is recognised comprehensive income is reclassified to ASSETS AND LIABILITIES as an asset under reverse repurchase the income statement immediately and agreements and cash collateral on Financial assets and liabilities are offset recognised in trading income from balance securities borrowed.
when there is both an intention to settle sheet management and other trading on a net basis or simultaneously and activities.
The difference between the sale and a currently enforceable legal right to repurchase prices is treated as interest For qualifying cash flow hedges in respect offsetexists.
expense and is accrued over the life of financial assets and liabilities, the change of the agreement using the effective in fair value of the hedging instrument, ISSUED DEBT AND EQUITY interestmethod.
which represents an effective hedge, is FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS initially recognised in other comprehensive Securities borrowing transactions that are income and is released to the income Financial instruments issued by the group not cash collateralised are not included on statement in the same period during which are classified as liabilities if they contain a the balance sheet.
Securities lending and contractual obligation to deliver cash or the relevant financial asset or liability affects borrowing transactions which are cash the income statement.
Any ineffective another financial asset.
collateralised are accounted for in the same portion of the hedge is immediately manner as securities sold or purchased Financial instruments issued by the group recognised in the income statement.
are classified as equity where they confer on the holder a residual interest in the Qualifying hedges of a net investment in a group, and the group has no obligation foreign operation, including a hedge of a FINANCIAL GUARANTEES to deliver either cash or another financial monetary item that is accounted for as part Financial guarantee contracts issued by asset to the holder.
The components of of the net investment, are accounted for in the group are those contracts that require compound issued financial instruments are a way similar to cash flow hedges.
Changes a payment to be made to reimburse the accounted for separately with the liability in the fair value of the hedging instrument holder for a loss it incurs because the component separated first and any residual relating to the effective portion of the hedge specified debtor fails to make a payment amount being allocated to the equity are recognised in other comprehensive when due, in accordance with the terms component.
income while any gains or losses relating of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees to the ineffective portion are recognised in Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries of are initially recognised at fair value, the income statement.
On disposal of the Investec plc are recorded as non-controlling adjusted for the transaction costs that foreign operation, the cumulative value of interests on the balance sheet.
aredirectly attributable to the issuance of any such gain or loss recorded in other theguarantee.
comprehensive income is reclassified to the Equity instruments are initially measured net income statement.
of directly attributable issue costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability under each guarantee is measured Hedge accounting is discontinued when it Treasury shares represent Investec plc at the higher of the amount recognised is determined that the instrument ceases shares repurchased by the group which less cumulative amortisation and the best to be highly effective as a hedge: when the has not been cancelled.
Treasury shares estimate of expenditure required to settle derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or are deducted from shareholders equity any financial obligation arising as a result exercised: when the hedged item matures and represent the purchase consideration, of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial or is sold or repaid: when a forecasted including directly attributable costs.
Where transaction is no longer deemed highly measurement, all changes in the balance treasury shares are subsequently sold probable or when the designation as a or reissued, net proceeds received are sheet carrying value are recognised in the hedge is revoked.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 163 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Accounting policies continued The current and comparative annual INSTALMENT CREDIT, LEASES Impairment of depreciation rates for each class of property AND RENTAL AGREEMENTS and equipment is as follows: non-financial assets The determination of whether an At each balance sheet date, the group Computer and related equipment 20% arrangement is, or contains a lease reviews the carrying value of non-financial to 33% is based on the substance of the assets, other than investment property for arrangement at the inception of the lease.
Motor vehicles 20% to 25% indication of impairment.
The recoverable The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if amount, being the higher of fair value Furniture and fittings 10% to 20% fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent less cost of disposal and value in use, is on the use of a specific asset or assets and determined for any assets for which an Freehold buildings 2% the arrangement conveys a right to use indication of impairment is identified.
If the the asset assets, even if that right is not Leasehold property and improvements recoverable amount of an asset is less than explicitly specified in an arrangement.
its carrying value, the carrying value of the Leasehold improvements depreciation asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
rates are determined by reference to A finance lease is a lease that transfers the appropriate useful life of its separate substantially all of the risks and rewards Impairment losses are recognised as components, limited to the period of the incidental to ownership of an asset.
An an expense in the income statement in lease.
Leasehold property depreciation rates operating lease is a lease other than a are determined by reference to the period of the period in which they are identified.
Reversals of impairment losses are recognised in income in the period in which Where classified as a finance lease, No depreciation is provided on the reversals are identified, to the extent amounts outstanding on these contracts, freehold land.
However, similar to other that the carrying value of the asset does not net of unearned finance charges, are property-related assets, it is subject to exceed the amount that would have been included in loans and advances where the impairment testing when an indication of calculated without impairment.
group is the lessor and included in liabilities impairmentexists.
where the group is the lessee.
Finance Routine maintenance and service costs for charges on finance leases and instalment Trust and fiduciary group assets are expensed as incurred.
credit transactions are credited or debited Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised to the income statement in proportion to activities if it is probable that future economic the capital balances outstanding at the rate The group acts as a trustee or in other benefits associated with the item will flow implicit in the agreement.
fiduciary capacities that result in the tothe group.
holding, placing or managing of assets for Where classified as operating leases, the account of and at the risk of clients.
rentals payable receivable are charged Investment properties credited in the income statement on a As these are not assets of the group, they Properties held for capital appreciation or straight-line basis over the lease term.
are not recognised on the balance sheet rental yield are classified as investment Contingent rentals are accrued to the but are included at market value as part properties.
Investment properties are income statement when incurred.
carried at fair value, with fair value gains or losses recognised in the income statement in investment income.
Property and equipment Taxation and deferred Property and equipment are recorded at Fair value of investment property is taxation cost less accumulated depreciation and calculated by taking into account the Current taxation payable is provided for impairments.
expected rental stream associated with based on the amount expected to be the property, and is supported by market Cost is the cash equivalent paid or the fair payable on taxable profit at rates that are evidence.
value of the consideration given to acquire enacted or substantively enacted and an asset and includes other expenditures applicable to the relevant period.
that are directly attributable to the Trading properties acquisition of the asset.
Deferred taxation is provided on temporary Trading properties are carried at the lower differences between the carrying amount of Depreciation is provided on the depreciable of cost and net realisable value.
an asset or liability in the balance sheet and amount of each component on a straightits tax base, except where such temporary line basis over the expected useful life of differences arise from: Intangible assets the asset.
Intangible assets are recorded at cost The initial recognition of goodwill The depreciable amount related to each less accumulated amortisation and asset is determined as the difference impairments.
Intangible assets with a The initial recognition of an asset or between the cost and the residual value finite life, are amortised over the useful liability in a transaction which is not a of the asset.
The residual value is the economic life currently three to twenty business combination and at the time estimated amount, net of disposal costs, years on a straight line basis.
The of the transaction has no effect on the that the group would currently obtain from depreciable amount related to each income statement or taxable profit the disposal of an asset in similar age and intangible asset is determined as the condition as expected at the end of its difference between the cost and the In respect of temporary differences useful life.
residual value of the asset.
associated with the investments in Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 164 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Accounting policies continued subsidiaries and interests in associated reference to financial liabilities held at Provisions, contingent undertakings, where the timing of the fair value, the standard proposes that liabilities and reversal of the temporary differences can changes to fair value attributable to be controlled and it is probable that the credit risk are recognised directly in contingent assets temporary differences will not reverse in other comprehensive income without Provisions are recognised when the the foreseeable future.
recyclingthrough the income statement: group has a present obligation legal or Deferred taxation assets or liabilities are constructive as a result of a past event: impairment methodology: the key change is related to a shift from an measured using the tax rates that have it is probable that an outflow of resources incurred loss to an expected loss been enacted or substantively enacted at embodying economic benefits will be impairment methodology.
At initial the balance sheet date.
required to settle the obligation and a recognition an allowance or provision reliable estimate can be made of the Deferred taxation assets are recognised in the case of commitments and amount of the obligation.
The expense to the extent that it is probable that future guarantees is required for expected relating to a provision is presented taxable profit will be available against credit losses ECL resulting from default in the income statement net of any which the deferred taxation asset can events that are possible within the next reimbursement.
Contingent assets and 12 months 12-month ECL.
contingent liabilities are not recognised event of a significant increase in credit onbalance sheet.
Items recognised directly in other risk since initial recognition, IFRS9 comprehensive income are net of related requires the recognition of lifetime current and deferred taxation.
Impairment Standards and measurement will involve increased interpretations issued complexity and significant judgements Employee benefits on areas such as the estimation of but not yet effective The group operates various defined probabilities of default, loss given The following standards and interpretations, contribution schemes and two closed default, unbiased future economic which have been issued but are not yet defined benefit schemes.
scenarios, estimation ofexpected lives, effective, are applicable to the group.
These estimation of exposures at default and standards and interpretations have not been In respect of the defined contribution assessing whether a significant increase applied in these annual financial statements.
scheme, all employer contributions are in creditrisk has occurred.
The group intends to comply with these charged to the income statement as standards from the effectivedates.
IFRS 9 also includes guidance on hedge incurred, in accordance with the rules accounting.
The general hedge accounting of thescheme, and included under requirements aim to simplify hedge IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS staffcosts.
accounting, creating a stronger link with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued The assets of the defined benefit schemes risk management strategy and permitting in July 2014 and will replace certain are measured at their market value at the hedge accounting to be applied to a key elements of IAS 39.
The mandatory balance sheet date and the liabilities of the greater variety of hedging instruments and effective date for IFRS 9 is for annual schemes are measured using the projected risks.
The standard does not address periods beginning on or after 1 January macro hedge accounting strategies, unit credit method.
The discount rate 2018 with early adoption permitted.
which are being considered in a separate used to measure the schemes liabilities IFRS9has not yet been endorsed by the project.
To remove the risk of any conflict is the current rate of return on an AA European Union.
The two key elements between existing macro hedge accounting corporate bond at the balance sheet date that would impact the groups accounting practice and the new general hedge of equivalent term and currency to the policies include: accounting requirements, IFRS 9 includes liabilities.
The extent to which the schemes an accounting policy choice to remain assets exceed or fall short of the schemes classification and measurement of with IAS 39 hedge accounting.
The group liabilities is shown as a surplus to the financial assets and financial liabilities: intends to continue applying IAS39s hedge extent that it is considered recoverable the standard requires that all financial accounting requirements until this section of ordeficit in the balance sheet.
assets be classified as either held at fair IFRS9 has been finalised.
The amortised Actuarial gains and losses related to The group has established an IFRS 9 cost classification is only permitted the defined benefit asset or liability are steering committee comprising of executive where it is held within a business model recognised immediately directly in other representation and key management where the underlying cash flows are comprehensive income.
fromRisk, Finance, Analytics and IT.
held in order to collect contractual Thecommittee is accountable for IFRS 9 cash flows and that the cash flows The group has no liabilities for other implementation and is supported by arise solely from payment of principal postretirement benefits.
working groups responsible for different and interest.
The committee provides provides that gains or losses on assets updates on the status of the project to the Borrowing costs held at fair value are recognised in the appropriate board committees.
income statement unless the entity has Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to property developments elected to recognise gains or losses on which take a substantial period of time non-trading equity investments directly through comprehensive income.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 165 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOUR Accounting policies continued Current assessment of classification of recognising revenue for obligations as in nature.
This arises from certain they are satisfied.
The standard should be transactions for which the ultimate tax and measurement.
applied retrospectively, with certain practical treatment can only be determined by The group expects that generally: expedients available.
The groups current final resolution with the relevant local tax loans and advances to banks and to measurement and recognition principles authorities.
The group has recognised in customers and non-trading reverse are aligned to the standard and we do its current tax provision certain amounts repurchase agreements that are classified not anticipate an impact to measurement in respect of taxation that involve a as loans and receivables under IAS 39 will principles currently applied.
The impact of the degree of estimation and uncertainty be measured at amortised cost under disclosure requirements of the standard is where the tax treatment cannot finally IFRS 9, with the exception of current currently being assessed.
be determined until a resolution has investments for which embedded been reached by the relevant tax derivatives are recognised separately authority.
The carrying amount of this IFRS 16 LEASES unless a separate derivative instrument provision is sensitive to the resolution of In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS16 can be recognised, the entire loan would issues, which is often dependent on the Leases.
The standard is effective for annual be recognised at fair value: timetable and progress of discussion periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. and negotiations with the relevant financial assets designated at fair value Earlier adoption is permitted for entities that tax authorities, arbitration process through profit or loss FVTPL under IAS 39 apply IFRS 15 at or before the date of initial and legal proceedings in the relevant will be measured at FVTPL under IFRS9: application of IFRS 16.
IFRS 16 results in tax jurisdictions in which the group lessees accounting for most leases within operates.
Issues can take many years certain debt securities held within the the scope of the standard in a manner to resolve and assumptions on the likely groups credit portfolio may be reclassified similar to the way in which finance leases are outcome would therefore have to be from available for sale to amortised cost.
currently accounted for under IAS 17 Leases.
The remaining debt securities classified as Lessees will recognise a right of use asset available for sale will be measured at fair The nature of any assumptions made, and a corresponding financial liability on the value through other comprehensive income when calculating the carrying amounts balance sheet.
Theasset will be amortised FVOCI under IFRS9: and relating to any estimated tax which over the period of the lease and the financial could be payable as a result of decisions liability measured at amortised cost.
Lessor equity instruments securities classified by tax authorities in respect of any accounting remains substantially the same as as available-for-sale or FVTPL will be such transactions and events whose in IAS 17.
The group is currently assessing the measured at FVTPL under IFRS 9. treatment for tax purposes, is uncertain.
impact of this standard but it is not practicable In making any estimates, managements The group continues to assess the impact of to quantify the effect as at the date of the judgement would be based on various this standard, but expects that the recognition publication of these financialstatements.
factors, including any such transactions and measurement basis of the majority of All other standards and interpretations issued and events whose treatment for tax the groups financial assets will be largely but not yet effective are not expected to have purposes is uncertain.
In making any unchanged on application of IFRS 9. a material impact on the group.
estimates, managements judgement Current assessment of impairments has been based on various factors, As noted, the group would also shift its including: Key management impairment methodology from the current the current status of tax audits and incurred loss basis to expected loss.
We assumptions enquiries: are in the process of developing models In preparation of the annual financial to determine expected credit losses for the current status of discussions and statements, the group makes estimations exposures subject to credit risk that are not negotiations with the relevant tax and applies judgement that could affect the carried at fair value through profit or loss.
authorities: reported amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Key areas in We are also reviewing key definitions the results of any previous claims: which judgement is applied include: such as significant deterioration in credit and quality and default against our current Valuation of unlisted investments in asset quality classifications.
This process any changes to the relevant tax the private equity, direct investments includes participation in industry regulatory environments.
Key valuation inputs are based on the Where appropriate the group has most relevant observable market inputs, We will incorporate IFRS 9 requirements utilised expert external advice as well adjusted where necessary for factors into our group credit risk classification and as experience of similar situations that specifically apply to the individual provisioning policy.
elsewhere in making any such investments and recognising market provisions.
volatility IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM Determination of interest income and The determination of impairments against CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS interest expense using the effective assets that are carried at amortised cost interest rate method involves In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 and impairments relating to availablejudgement in determining the timing Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
for-sale financial assets involves the and extent of future cash flows.
The standard is effective for annual periods assessment of future cash flows which is beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with judgemental in nature early application permitted.
IFRS 15 provides a principles-based approach for revenue The groups income tax charge and recognition, and introduces the concept balance sheet provision are judgemental Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 166
