RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Internal Audit As a result of the regulatory responsibilities responsible audit committee.
Veryhigh arising from the DLC structure, there are risk businesses and processes are Internal Audits two group Internal Audit departments audited at least every 12 months, with located in London and Johannesburg, other areas covered at regular intervals activity is governed responsible for Investec plc and Investec based on their risk profile.
There is an Limited respectively.
Investec Bank plcs ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as by an internal audit Irishbranch has its own Internal Audit well as auditing technology risks given charter which is function reporting into Investec plc Internal Investecs dependence on IT systems.
In combination, the functions cover Internal Audit also liaises with the external approved by the group all the geographies in which Investec auditors and other assurance providers to operates.
These functions use a global enhance efficiencies in terms of integrated audit committees and risk-based methodology and cooperate assurance.
The annual plan is reviewed is reviewed annually.
regularly to ensure it remains relevant and responsive, given changes in the operating The heads of Internal Audit report at each The charter defines environment.
The audit committee approves audit committee meeting and have a direct any changes to the plan.
the purpose, authority reporting line to the chairman of the audit committee as well as the appropriate Significant control weaknesses are and responsibilities chief executive officers.
They operate reported, in terms of an escalation independently of executive management, protocol, to the local assurance forums, of the function but have regular access to their local chief where remediation procedures and executive officers and to business unit progress are considered and monitored executives.
The heads of Internal Audit in detail by management.
The audit are responsible for coordinating internal committee receives a report on significant audit efforts to ensure coverage is global issues and actions taken by management and departmental skills are leveraged to to enhance related controls.
For administrative on the status of previously raised issues purposes, the heads of Internal Audit also is provided by Internal Audit to each audit report to the global head of corporate committee.
If there are concerns in relation governance and compliance.
The to overdue issues, these will be escalated functions comply with the International to the executive risk review forum to Standards for the Professional Practice expediteresolution.
of Internal Auditing, and are subject to an Internal Audit proactively reviews its independent Quality Assurance Review practices and resources for adequacy and QAR at appropriate intervals.
The most appropriateness to meet an increasingly recent independent QAR benchmarked demanding corporate governance and the functions against the July 2013 regulatory environment.
The audit teams publication by the Chartered Institute for comprise well-qualified, experienced Internal Auditors entitled Effective Internal staff to ensure that the function has the Audit in the Financial Services Sector.
The competence to match Investecs diverse results were communicated to the audit requirements.
Where specific specialist committees in March 2014 and to the skills or additional resources are required, respective regulators.
A QAR follow-up these are obtained from third parties.
review was completed and results issued Internal Audit resources are subject to to the audit committees in January 2015 as review by the respective auditcommittees.
well as to the respective regulators.
Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of the entire business from which a comprehensive risk-based audit plan is derived.
The assessment and programme are validated by executive management and approved by the Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 121
