RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Compliance The pace of regulatory change in the maintains a client-focused culture and COMPETITION financial sector has shown little signs of that each business within the group has On 1 April 2015, the FCA was granted abating, and the pressure the industry client outcomes at the centre of their has faced to implement various regulatory business model.
The CMCC is responsible enhanced powers to promote its initiatives, has continued to be resource for ensuring that all interactions with the competition objective alongside the newly intensive.
In addition, the scale and FCA across Investec Asset Management, established UK Competition and Markets frequency of regulatory fines and redress Investec Bank plc and Investec Wealth& Authority the CMA.
The FCA has made orders continues to impact firms balance Investment are properly managed and use of these powers during the period to sheets with the regulators intensive and that customer insights and regulatory carry out a number of competition market intrusive approach to supervision expected expectations were shared between studies in areas such as: cash savings, to continue for the foreseeable future.
the regulated entities in the group and credit cards, retail and SME banking and theirsubsidiaries.
Global regulators have continued to focus investment and corporate banking.
on promoting stability and resilience in CONSUMER PROTECTION financial markets, with increasing emphasis SENIOR MANAGERS AND on recovery and resolution plans and The FCA has vigorously pursued its CERTIFIED PERSONS REGIME structural reforms to the banking sector consumer protection objective during as well as customer and market conduct the period.
Over the past 12 months this The FCA and PRA are putting in place a related reforms.
has included issuing of significant fines new regulatory framework for individuals and performing several strategic reviews working in the UK banking sector.
The Investec remains focused on complying into areas such as: product design and incoming regime will consist of three with the highest levels of compliance to sales practices, provision of advice, keycomponents: professional standards and integrity in each treatment of customers who suffered of our jurisdictions.
Our culture is a major unauthorised transactions and product and I.
A new Senior Managers Regime which component of our compliance framework servicesuitability.
will clarify the lines of responsibility and is supported by robust policies, within, enhance the regulators ability processes and talented professionals who WHOLESALE MARKETS to hold senior individuals in banks ensure that the interests of our customers accountable and require banks to and shareholders remain at the forefront of The FCA has continued to pursue a regularly vet their senior managers for everything we do.
proactive and assertive approach in fitness and propriety: identifying and addressing risks arising from firms conduct in the wholesale markets.
A Certification Regime requiring firms Year in review to assess fitness and propriety of staff This has included an increasingly intensive in positions where the decisions they CONDUCT RISK approach to supervisory activities and make could pose significant harm to The FCA continues to focus on advancing thematic reviews as well as several high the bank or any of its customers: and its three operational objectives: securing profile referrals to enforcement relating to an appropriate degree of protection for LIBOR, forex and conflicts of interest.
A new set of Conduct Rules, which consumers: protecting and enhancing the take the form of brief statements integrity of the UK financial system: and Wholesale markets have also been the of high level principles setting out promoting effective competition in the focus of significant regulatory reform over the standards of behaviour for interest of consumers.
The FCAs aim is the past 12 months.
to ensure that clients interests are at the proposed reforms have included the forefront of firms agendas and that their finalisation of the incoming Markets in Investec Bank plc has successfully needs are placed at the heart of the firms Financial Instruments Directive MIFID II.
implemented the core components of strategy.
Firms are also expected to behave this regime which came into force on appropriately in the wholesale markets in The MIFID II reform package will form 7March2016.
a revised framework governing the requirements applicable to investment Investec has focused over the period STRUCTURAL BANKING REFORM firms, trading venues, data reporting on delivering good customer outcomes service providers and third-country firms The Banking Reform Act received Royal and effectively managing conduct risk providing investment services or activities Assent on 18 December 2013 and gave throughout our business.
This has included in the EU.
These reforms will drive change the UK authorities the powers to implement continued and ongoing investment in and across Investec Bank plc, Investec Asset key recommendations of the Independent enhancement of the conduct risk and Management and Investec Wealth & Commission on Banking ICB on banking compliance frameworks in place throughout Investment, with the majority of these reform, including ring-fencing of UK retail the group.
reforms required to be implemented by banking activities of a universal bank into a A key enhancement to our conduct January 2018. legally distinct, operationally separate and framework during the period was the economically independent entity within the Material reforms also continue to take effect establishment of the Investec plc customer same group.
in the OTC markets as a result of the EUs and market conduct committee CMCC.
Market Infrastructure Regulations EMIR The CMCC is chaired by the group CEO and is designed to ensure that Investec and the UKs market abuse regime.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 122 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Compliance continued Ring-fencing was a key area of strategic The OECD has recently taken further focus during the period for the largest UK steps to improve global cross-border tax banks.
The Banking Reform Act contains a compliance by releasing the Common fide minimis exemption from the requirement Reporting Standard CRS.
The CRS to ring-fence, which is relevant to all but is a set of global standards for the the largest UK deposit takers.
Investec annual exchange of financial information falls within this fide minimis exemption and by financial institutions pertaining to is therefore out of scope of the ringcustomers, to the tax authorities of the fencingrequirement.
jurisdictions in which those customers are resident for tax purposes.
CRS takes effect as of 1 January 2016 in the UK, with FINANCIAL CRIME reporting commencing from 2017.
Financial crime continues to be a regulatory The UK government intends to create a focus with regulators globally encouraging new corporate criminal offence of failing to firms to adopt a dynamic approach to the prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
Draft management of risk and to increase efforts legislation has already been published and around systems and controls to combat should be finalised before the introduction both money laundering and bribery and of the new international automatic corruption.
In the past two years, the UK exchange of information arrangements government made significant efforts to in2017.
ramp up its capacity to enforce the Bribery Act, with notable measures including the publication of the first UK National Anti-Corruption Plan, the introduction of Deferred Prosecution Agreements DPA to streamline the resolution of selected corporate bribery cases, and the implementation of harsher sentencing guidelines for fraud, bribery and money laundering offences.
TAX REPORTING The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA aims to promote cross-border tax compliance by implementing an international standard for the automatic exchange of tax information relating to US investors.
The provisions call on tax authorities all over the world to obtain detailed account information from financial institutions relating to US investors and exchange that information automatically with the United States Internal Revenue Service on an annual basis.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 123
