INVESTEC PLC IN PERSPECTIVE Overview of the ONE activities of Investec plc What we do ASSET MANAGEMENT At Investec Asset Management, we want Established in South Africa in 1991, we have built to assist people around the globe to retire a successful global investment management firm from emerging markets.
We are still managed by our with dignity or to meet their financial founding members whose tenure and continuity has balanced stability and growth.
objectives by offering specialist, active Our investment team of over 180investment investment expertise.
Our clients include professionals applies clear investment philosophies some of the worlds largest private and and processes across multiple asset classes.
Our client group is organised across five geographically defined public sector pension funds, insurers and units serving our clients around the globe.
These teams corporates, and range from foundations are supported by our global operations platform.
and central banks to intermediaries We manage 75.7 billion assets globally.
Our business is to manage our clients investments to the highest standard possible by exceeding their investment and client service expectations What we do WEALTH & INVESTMENT Investec Wealth & The European operations are conducted through Investec Wealth & Investment Limited in the UK, Investec Wealth & Investment Ireland, Investec Bank Switzerland Investment offers its and in Guernsey through Investec Wealth & Investment Channel Islands.
clients comfort in its Over 1 200 staff operate from offices located throughout the UK and Europe, scale, international withcombined funds under management of 29.8 billion.
Investec Wealth & Investment is one of the UKs leading providers of private client investment reach and depth of management services.
investment processes Investments and Pensions and retirement Financial planning savings Discretionary and advisory Discretionary investment management for Succession planning portfolio management services for company pension and Self Invested Personal ISAs private clients Pensions SIPPs Retirement planning.
Advice and guidance on pension schemes, life Specialist investment assurance and income protection schemes.
management services for charities, pension schemes andtrusts Independent financial planning advice for private clients Specialist portfolio management services for international clients.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 4 INVESTEC PLC IN PERSPECTIVE Overview of the ONE activities of Investec plc continued What we do SPECIALIST BANKING The bank operates as a specialist Each business provides specialised products and services to defined target markets.
bank focusing on three key areas of activity: Investment activities, Corporate and Institutional Banking activities and Private Banking activities Focus on helping our A highly valued partner and adviser toour clients clients create and preserve wealth High-income and high Corporates government institutional clients net worth privateclients Investment activities Corporate and Private Institutional Banking activities Banking activities Principal investments Treasury and trading services Transactional banking and foreign exchange Property investment and fund Specialised lending, funds and debt capital markets Lending management Deposits Institutional research, sales andtrading Advisory and equity capital markets Australia Australia UK and Europe Hong Kong Hong Kong UK and Europe India UK and Europe USA Our principal investments Our Corporate and Institutional Banking is a clientHigh-tech and high touch business in Hong Kong largely focused business concentrating on traditional private client offering providing focuses on pre-IPO investment lending and debt origination activities, as well as day-to-day banking, savings, opportunities in Chinese the provision of advisory services and treasury and financing and foreign companies with good track trading services that are customer flow-related.
exchange tailored to suit records, while our businesses ourclientsneeds.
Our target market includes small, mid-sized and in the UK and Australia focus listed corporates, private equity community and Our target market includes high on opportunistic investment institutions.
net worth individuals, wealthy alongside credibleclients.
entrepreneurs, high-income In addition we provide niche, specialist solutions in Our property business focuses professionals, owner managers aircraft, project, resource and marine finance.
on property fundmanagement in mid-market companies and and property investments.
Natural linkages between the private client and corporate business Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 5
