com They can be contacted by telephone on 0871 664 0300 from the UK calls cost 12 pence per minute plus network Financial calendar charges and Ex-dividend date for the Final and Special dividend 27 April 2017 44 371 664 0300 from outside the UK calls UK will be charged at the Record date for the Final and Special dividend 28 April 2017 applicable international rate.
Annual General Meeting 10 May 2017 Interim Management Statement 10 May 2017 Lines are open Monday to Friday 9.00a.
m. to 5.30 p. m. Payment date for the Final and Special Dividend 25 May 2017 Alternatively you could email them at: Half year results announcement 26 July 2017 shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk Registered office The London Television Centre Upper Ground Annual General Meeting London The Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 10th May SE1 9LT 2017 at 11.00 a. m. at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of the AGM 020 7157 3000 contains an explanation of special business to be considered at the meeting and a copy of this is available on the Company website.
com investors  agm 189 Additional Information Glossary Glossary Broadcasters Audience Research Long-form video requests video requests SDN multiplex operator owned by ITV Board BARB organisation owned by are a measure of the total number of videos which operates one of the eight national broadcasters and advertisers providing requested across all platforms such as itv.
multiplex licences in the UK on Freeview data on linear and online television com, Virgin and mobile devices and includes viewing statistics by UK households simulcast.
A long-form video is a programme Share of Broadcast SOB ITVs share that has been broadcast on television and is of UK television advertising revenue NAR, Catch up viewing non-live viewing available to watch online and on demand in a measure of market share ofrecently broadcast television programmes, its entirety either via a recording device often called a Share of Commercial Impacts SOCI PVR or DTR such as Sky or through a Video Long-form online viewing consumption the term used to define the share of total on Demand service such as the ITV Hub, BBC total number of hours of ITV VOD content UK television commercial impacts which is iPlayer, All 4 or My5 viewed on advertiser funded platforms such delivered by one channel orgroup of as mobiles, itv.
This measure excludes viewing Channel 3 licences the 16 regional licences of BBC channels asthey do not generate and one national licence awarded to transmit Media sales commission commission commercial impacts.
Unless stated otherwise, Channel 3 across the UK.
All are owned by ITV earned by ITV plc on sales of airtime on SOCI figures cited throughout this report with the exception of two of the regional behalf of the non-consolidated licensees arebased on BARB data and are based on licences which are owned by STV STV and UTV until acquisition in Feb 2016 the universe of Adults 16 Contract Rights Renewal CRR the Net Advertising Revenue NAR the Share of Viewing SOV the share of remedy agreed by Carlton and Granada in amount of money received by a broadcaster the total viewing audience during a defined 2003 as a pre-condition of the merger, which as payment for television spot advertising period gained by a programme or channel.
governs the way in which ITV airtime is sold net of any commission paid to agencies This measure includes viewing of BBC by ITV to its advertising customers channels.
Unless stated otherwise, SOV Total Schedule Costs Total Network figures cited throughout this report are Free-to-Air FTA television viewing Programme Budget NPB the budget based on BARB data and are based on the of television through devices not requiring spent on programming broadcast on the universe of individuals a subscription such as the Freeview or ITV family of channels, including spend on Freesat services regional programming and ITVBreakfast Spot advertising Linear television advertising occupying a short break during High Definition HD channels or services Non-consolidated licensees the or between programmes broadcast in substantially higherresolution tworegional channel 3 licences which ITV than standard, providing improved does not own.
These licences are owned Subscription Video on Demand SVOD a picture quality by STV and revenues received from these paid for service where a subscriber has access licences for ITV programming content are to wide range of content whenever they Impact or Commercial Impact one referred to as minority revenues request it Commercial Impact is defined as one viewer watching one 30-second Non-NAR revenue non-NAR revenue Video on Demand VOD the ability television commercial includes all ITV revenue, both internal and todeliver video content to a customers external, except net advertising revenue television set, computer or device when ITV Family the ITV family of channels NAR.
This includes inter-segment revenue the customer requests it which includes ITV, ITV2, ITV3, ITV4, ITVBe, from the sale of ITV Studios shows to the ITV Encore, CITV, ITV Breakfast, CITV ITV Network YouView a joint venture with the BBC, Breakfast and all associated 1 andHD Channel 4, Channel 5, BT, TalkTalk, and Arqiva equivalents.
Viewing figures include the Ofcom independent regulator and to operate and promote a hybridtelevision whole of the ITV network.
Revenue figures competition authority for the UK platform combining Freeview channels with include only ITV plc operated regions communications industries catch up and ondemand services Linear television television service Over-the-top content OTT delivery where the viewer has to watch a scheduled of audio, video, and other media over TV program at the particular time its theInternet, this includes content offered, and on the particular channel fromproviders such as Netflix, Amazon its presented on and Hulu and also our own on demand service, the ITV Hub 190 Printed in the UK by Pureprint using vegetable inks and their Pureprint environmental printing technology.
Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Designed and produced by ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 ITV plc The London Television Centre Upper Ground London SE1 9LT www.
