Glossary Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to EBITDAR Earnings before interest, tax, Non-controlling interest The equity in help inspire school children to take more depreciation, amortisation and rent.
asubsidiary not attributable, directly or exercise and to eat more healthily.
Launched indirectly, to the Company.
ESOP Trusts Employee Share Ownership in 2005, Active Kids is open to all nursery, Plan Trusts.
OFT Office of Fair Trading.
primary and secondary schools as well as Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK.
Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an PRA Prudential Regulation Authority.
co. uk activekids independent consumer label that guarantees Real discount rate Discount rate less a fair deal for marginalised workers and Annual General Meeting AGM This year inflation rate.
small scale farmers in developing countries.
the AGM will be held on Wednesday 6 July Producers receive a minimum price that ROCE Return on capital employed.
2016 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference covers the cost of production and an extra Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, RPI Retail Price Index.
premium that is invested in the local London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
Taste the Difference Sainsburys basics Sainsburys entry level own-brand www.
uk premium own-brand range of products.
Fair value The amount for which an asset Total Shareholder Return TSR The bps Basis points.
could be exchanged, or a liability settled, growth in value of a shareholding over a between knowledgeable, willing parties in an specified period, assuming that dividends Brand Match Initiative using marketarms length transaction.
are reinvested to purchase additional units of leading technology guaranteeing price the stock.
match on the basket of comparable grocery FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing branded goods with Asda.
Over 12,000 company, runs the FTSE4Good index series to Tu Sainsburys own label clothing range.
branded grocery lines are included and the measure the performance of companies that Underlying basic earnings per share initiative works by offering customers who meet corporate responsibility standards, and Profit after tax from continuing operations buy ten or more unique items and at least to facilitate investment in those companies.
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the one branded product, a coupon at the till.
com products indices parent before any profit or loss on the even include promotions provided the same FTSE4Good disposal of properties, investment property number of products are bought.
Maximum FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss.
fair value movements, retailing financing fair value of coupons 10.
Method of valuing a financial instrument value movements, the financing element of by Sainsburys Core own label brand.
where changes in fair value are recognised IAS 19 and defined benefit pension scheme directly in the income statement.
expenses, acquisition adjustments arising Click & Collect Service which allows from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition, and customers to place general merchandise and Gearing Net debt divided by net assets.
one-off items that are material and grocery orders online for collection in store.
Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
infrequent in nature, but after the coupons CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed on perpetual securities, divided by weighted IFRIC International Financial Reporting Securities.
average number of ordinary shares in issue Interpretations Committee.
during the year, excluding those held by Collection Sainsburys own-brand general IFRSs International Financial Reporting ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Standard s. Underlying cash flow from operations Company J Sainsbury plc.
Income Statement Formerly known as Underlying cash generated from operations Corporate Responsibility and the profit and loss account under UK GAAP.
before net rent and cash payments to the Sustainability CR&S The need to act pension scheme.
Joint venture JV A business jointly responsibly in managing our impact on a owned by two or more parties.
Underlying operating profit Underlying range of stakeholders: customers, colleagues, profit before tax from continuing operations investors, suppliers, the community and the Kantar Worldpanel Kantar An before underlying net finance costs and environment.
independent third party providing data underlying share of post-tax profit or loss onthe UK Grocery Market.
Live Well for Less Sainsburys customer Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax Underlying profit before tax Profit before commitment to continue to help people live from continuing operations attributable to tax from continuing operations attributable to the life they want to live, with quality ordinary shareholders divided by total value ordinary shareholders of the parent before any products at fair prices.
ofdividends declared during the year.
profit or loss on the disposal of properties, investment property fair value movements, Like-for-like sales The measure of Earnings Per Share EPS Earnings retailing financing fair value movements, year-on-year same store growth.
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the thefinancing element of IAS 19 and defined parent divided by the weighted average LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan.
benefit pension scheme expenses, acquisition number of ordinary shares in issue during adjustments arising from the Sainsburys MSC Marine Stewardship Council.
the year, excluding those held by ESOP Bank acquisition, and one-off items that are Trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Nectar One of the most popular loyalty material and infrequent in nature, but after schemes in the UK, of which Sainsburys is the coupons on perpetual securities.
155 Notes Notes 156 This report is printed on UPM Fine.
The printer is certified to the environmental management system TM ISO 14001 and is also CarbonNeutral The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C.
