Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the accounts continued Parent company accounts 32.
Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these accounts Summarised extract of Company balance sheet The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make certain judgements and prepared under the Swiss Code of Obligations assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures.
As at Fair value accounting for business combinations 31 Dec 2016 For each business combination, we assess the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired.
Where there is not an active market in the Swiss Code of Obligations category of the non-current assets typically acquired with a business centre or where the books and records of the acquired company m do not provide sufficient information to derive an accurate valuation, management calculates an estimated fair value based on available information and experience.
Assets Trade and other receivables 8.5 The main categories of acquired non-current assets where managements judgement has an impact on the amounts recorded include tangible fixed assets, customer list intangibles and the fair market value of leasehold assets and liabilities.
For significant business Total current assets 8.5 combinations management also obtains third-party valuations to provide additional guidance as to the appropriate valuation to Investments 2,296.4 be included in the financial statements.
Total non-current assets 2,296.4 Valuation of intangibles and goodwill We evaluate the fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets to assess potential impairments on an annual basis, or during the year Total assets 2,304.9 if an event or other circumstance indicates that we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the asset.
We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill based on our CGUs aggregated at a country level and make that determination based upon future cash flow projections Trade and other payables 3.3 which assume certain growth projections which may or may not occur.
We record an impairment loss for goodwill when the carrying value Total short-term liabilities 3.3 of the asset is less than its estimated recoverable amount.
Further details of the methodology and assumptions applied to the impairment Long-term interest bearing liabilities 2.6 review in the year ended 31 December 2016, including the sensitivity to changes in those assumptions, can be found in note 12.
Total long-term liabilities 2.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment We evaluate the potential impairment of property, plant and equipment at a centre CGU level where there are indicators of impairment at the balance sheet date.
In the assessment of value-in-use, key judgemental areas in determining future cash flow projections include: Total liabilities 5.9 an assessment of the location of the centre: the local economic situation: competition: local environmental factors: the management of the centre: and future changes in occupancy, revenue and costs of the centre.
Issued share capital 9.2 Tax assets and liabilities Legal capital reserves We base our estimate of deferred tax assets and liabilities on current tax laws and rates and, in certain cases, business plans and Reserves from capital contributions 2,295.4 other expectations about future outcomes.
Changes in existing laws and rates, and their related interpretations, and future business Loss for the period 2.7 results may affect the amount of deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets over time.
Our accounting for deferred tax Treasury shares 2.9 consequences represents managements best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates.
Total shareholders equity 2,299.0 It is current Group policy to recognise a deferred tax asset when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be used.
The Group considers it probable if the entity has made a taxable profit in the previous year and is forecast to continue to make a profit in the foreseeable future.
Where appropriate, the Group assesses the potential risk of future tax liabilities arising from the Total liabilities and shareholders equity 2,304.9 operation of its business in multiple tax jurisdictions and includes provisions within tax liabilities for those risks that can be estimated reliably.
Changes in existing tax laws can affect large international groups similar to IWG and could result in significant additional tax Approved by the Board on 28 February 2017 liabilities over and above those already provided for.
Onerous lease provisions We have identified certain poor performing centres where the lease is considered onerous, i. e. the Group does not expect to recover the Mark Dixon Dominik fide Daniel unavoidable lease costs up to the first break point.
The accounts include a provision for our estimate of the net amounts payable under Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer the terms of the lease to the first break point, discounted at the Group weighted average cost of capital, where appropriate.
Dilapidations Accounting policies Certain of our leases with landlords include a clause obliging the Group to hand the property back in the condition as at the date Basis of preparation of signing the lease.
The costs to bring the property back to that condition are not known until the Group exits the property so the These financial statements were prepared according to the principles of the Swiss Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting 32nd title Group estimates the costs at each balance sheet date.
However, given that landlords often regard the nature of changes made of the Swiss Code of Obligations.
to properties as improvements, the Group estimates that it is unlikely that any material dilapidation payments will be necessary.
The Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of IWG plc.
Consequently, provision has been made only for those potential dilapidation payments when it is probable that an outflow will occur and can be reliably estimated.
The balance sheet has been extracted from the non-statutory accounts of IWG plc prepared under the Swiss Code of Obligations for the period ended 31 December 2016, which are available from the Companys registered office, Dammstrasse 19, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland.
113 112 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 113
