Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets General information of the entity, less any provision for impairment.
J Sainsbury plc is a public limited company the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Company Exchange.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its balance sheet at cost less any provision for impairment.
registered address is 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT, United Kingdom.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 12 March 2016 prior financial but not control.
The consolidated financial statements for the 52 weeks to 12 March 2016 comprise the financial statements of the Investment properties held by the Group are those contained within its joint Company and its subsidiaries the Group and the Groups share of the ventures with Land Securities Group PLC and The British Land Company PLC.
post-tax results of its joint ventures and associates.
These are properties held for capital appreciation and or to earn rental income.
They are initially measured at cost, including related transaction The Groups principal activities are grocery related retailing and retail banking.
After initial recognition at cost, they are carried at their fair values based on market value determined by professional valuers at each reporting Basis of preparation date.
The difference between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date and its carrying amount prior to re-measurement is included The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with within the income statement but is excluded from underlying profit in order International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the to provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations of the Groups ongoing business for shareholders.
Committee IFRIC and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared on the same basis and, as permitted by Amendments to published standards Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement or Effective for the Group and Company in these financial statement of comprehensive income is presented for the Company.
statements: The Group has considered the following amendments to published standards The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest that are effective for the Group for the financial year beginning 15 March million m unless otherwise stated.
They have been prepared on a going 2015 and concluded that they are either not relevant to the Group or that concern basis under the historical cost convention, except for derivative they do not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
financial instruments, defined benefit scheme assets, investment properties These standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the European and available-for-sale financial assets that have been measured at fair value.
Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based payments on the definition of Basis of consolidation vesting conditions The consolidated financial statements of the Group consist of the financial Amendments to IFRS 3, Business combinations on scope exclusions for statements of the ultimate parent company J Sainsbury plc, all entities joint ventures and the subsequent measurement of contingent controlled by the Company and the Groups share of its interests in joint considerations ventures and associates.
Amendments to IFRS8, Operating segments on aggregation of operating segments and reconciliations of assets a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which Amendments to IFRS 13, Fair value measurements on application of the theGroup has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is portfolio exception exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38, entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the Intangible assets on the proportionate restatement of accumulated entity.
Theresults of subsidiaries are included in the income statement from depreciation amortisation the date of acquisition or, in the case of disposals, up to the effective date of Amendments to IAS 19, Employee benefits on the recognition of disposal.
Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies employee contributions to defined benefit plans are eliminated upon consolidation.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have Amendments to IAS 24, Related party disclosures on entities providing been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies key management personnel services adopted by the Group.
Amendments to IAS 40, Investment property on the interrelationship Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment loss between IFRS 3 and IAS 40 in the financial statements of the Company.
b Joint ventures and associates The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11, investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
The Groups share of the post-tax results of its joint ventures and associates is included in the income statement using the equity method of accounting.
Where the Group transacts with a joint venture or associate, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture or associate.
95 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued The Group and Company have considered the impact of the remaining above 1 Accounting policies continued standards and revisions and have concluded that they will not have a The following standards and revisions will be effective for future significant impact on the Group and Companys financial statements, apart periods: from additional disclosures.
Amendments to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on the accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements which periods presented in the financial statements by the Group and the Company.
clarifies existing IAS 1 requirements Revenue Amendments to IAS 16, Plant, property and equipment and IAS 38, Intangible assets which clarifies acceptable methods of depreciation and Revenue consists of sales through retail outlets and, in the case of Sainsburys amortisation Bank, interest receivable, fees and commissions and excludes Value Added Tax.
Amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements a Retail sale of goods which allow an entity to use the equity method as described in IAS 28 to Sales through retail outlets are shown net of returns, the cost of Nectar reward account for its investments in subsidiaries points issued and redeemed, colleague discounts, vouchers and sales made IFRS 9, Financial instruments on an agency basis.
Commission income is recognised in revenue based on IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers the terms of the contract.
IFRS 16, Leases Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of goods and Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 12, services have been passed to the buyer and it can be measured reliably.
Disclosure of interests in other entities and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures on applying the consolidation exception The cost of Nectar points is treated as a deduction from sales and a Amendments to IAS 7, Statement of cashflows on the disclosures in corresponding liability recognised on the balance sheet.
Revenue is then financial statements recognised as each point is redeemed in store.
Amendments to IAS 12, Income taxes on the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses b Sainsburys Bank interest receivable Interest income is recognised in the income statement for all instruments Annual Improvements 2012 measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
This Annual Improvements 2013 calculation takes into account all amounts that are integral to the yield as Annual improvements 2014 well as incremental transaction costs.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the expected future cash flows over the expected life of the IFRS 9 will supersede IAS 39 in its entirety, and is effective for accounting financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
The new standard is broadly liability at initial recognition.
split into three areas: Classification and measurement.
New classification and measurement c Sainsburys Bank fees and commissions criteria require financial instruments to be classified into one of three Fees and commissions that are not integral to the effective interest rate categories being amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive calculation primarily relate to credit card and ATM interchange fees and income or fair value.
Classification will be determined by the business insurance introduction commission receivable from insurance partners.
These model and contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments.
are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis as services are provided.
Where in the case of insurance commissions the income comprises Expected credit losses ECL.
The requirement to recognise impairment losses an initial commission and profit share, both are recognised on completion of based on ECL methodology is a change to the current requirements whereby the service to the extent reliably measurable.
Where there is a risk of potential losses are only recognised once an impairment event has happened.
claw back, an appropriate element of the commission receivable is deferred Hedge accounting.
The general hedge accounting mechanisms of IAS 39 and amortised over the claw back period.
Where the relevant contract requires have been retained, however greater flexibility has been introduced over the Bank to perform future services in respect of the income receivable, initial the instruments eligible for hedge accounting and effectiveness testing commission is recognised on completion of the service provided, with an has been more closely aligned with the underlying risk management element deferred to reflect services yet to be performed in future periods.
d Sainsburys Bank other operating income The Group is currently implementing a project to assess the impact of IFRS 9 Margin from the sale of travel money, representing the difference between and implement systems to ensure ongoing compliance with its requirements.
the cost price and the selling price, is recognised when the sale to the customer takes place within other operating income.
IFRS 15 establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes Cost of sales a number of existing standards and interpretations from its effective date for Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including warehouse and accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 introduces transportation costs and all the costs of operating retail outlets and, in the principles to recognise revenue by allocation of the transaction price to case of Sainsburys Bank, interest expense on operating activities, calculated performance obligations.
IFRS 15 will apply to the Groups revenue and other using the effective interest method.
Income from financial instruments will continue to be recognised under IAS 39 IFRS 9.
Supplier arrangements Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts, collectively known as supplier IFRS 16 specifies how an entity will recognise, measure, present and disclose arrangements, are recognised within cost of sales on an accruals basis as leases.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring they are earned for each relevant supplier contract.
The accrued value at the lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is reporting date is included in trade receivables or trade payables, depending 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
IFRS 16 supersedes on the right of offset.
IAS 17 and applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group is reviewing the requirements of IFRS 15 and 16 to determine their impact.
96 Financial Statements d Other intangible assets 1 Accounting policies continued Pharmacy licences are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any The most common types of supplier arrangement, in order of magnitude, recognised provision for impairment and amortised on a straight-line basis which Sainsburys receives are: over the licence period of up to 15 years within cost of sales.
Discounts and supplier incentives these represent the majority of all supplier arrangements and are linked to individual unit sales.
The incentive Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and is typically based on an agreed sum per item sold on promotion for a period any provision for impairment.
They are amortised on a straight-line basis over and therefore is considered part of the purchase price for that product.
their contractual useful economic lives within cost of sales.
Fixed amounts these are agreed with suppliers primarily to support in-store activity including promotions, such as utilising specific space.
Property, plant and equipment Supplier rebates these are typically agreed on an annual basis, aligned a Land and buildings with the Groups financial year, with the rebate amount linked to Land and buildings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any pre-agreed targets such as sales volumes.
Capital work in progress is held at cost less any recognised provision for impairment.
Cost includes the original Finance income and costs purchase price of the asset and the costs incurred attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
This includes capitalised For Sainsburys Bank, finance income and finance costs are recognised in borrowing costs.
revenue and cost of sales, as discussed above.
b Fixtures and equipment Finance income and costs, excluding those arising from Sainsburys Bank, are Fixtures, equipment and vehicles are held at cost less accumulated recognised in the income statement for financial assets and liabilities depreciation and any recognised provision for impairment.
Cost includes the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Interest paid and interest received for the purpose of the cash flow statement relates to retail only, with Sainsburys Banks interest paid and interest c Depreciation received included in the net operating cash flow.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line basis, using the following rates: Business combinations Freehold buildings and leasehold properties 50 years, or the lease term The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting for business if shorter combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and Fixtures, equipment and vehicles three to 15 years the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred Freehold land is not depreciated includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds less any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  associated costs of disposal with the assets carrying amount and are basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate recognised within operating profit.
The assets residual values and useful lives share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree identifiable net assets.
are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the Impairment of non-financial assets acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its value at the acquisition date through the income statement.
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If Intangible assets any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset, being the a Goodwill higher of its fair value less costs to dispose and its value in use, is estimated in Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration of an order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet in the year in which it other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the casharises, and is considered to have an indefinite useful life.
Goodwill is tested for generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
For retail property, plant impairment annually and again whenever indicators of impairment are and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill, the CGU is deemed detected and is carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
to be each trading store or store pipeline development site.
For retail goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each retail chain of stores acquired.
Non-store b Computer software assets, including depots and IT assets, are reviewed separately, whilst Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any Sainsburys Bank is deemed a separate CGU.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over Any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement in the year in their useful economic lives of five to ten years.
Costs relating to development which it occurs.
Where an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on of computer software for internal use are capitalised once the recognition goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the criteria of IAS 38, Intangible assets are met.
Other development carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its expenditures that do not meet these criteria are expensed as incurred.
When recoverable amount, or its original carrying value less notional accumulated the software is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised on a depreciation if lower.
straight-line basis over their useful economic lives of five to seven years within administrative expenses.
Capitalisation of interest Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or c Acquired intangible assets construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset, gross Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value of tax relief.
See note 11 for further information.
Intangible assets with finite useful economic lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, ranging from three to six years, within administrative expenses.
97 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances in the Group balance sheet comprise cash in hand Assets and liabilities held for sale and at bank, deposits at central banks, investments in money market funds Assets held for sale are stated at the lower of the carrying amount and fair and deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily value less costs to dispose.
Assets held for sale are not depreciated.
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash probable and the assets and liabilities are available for sale in their present equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
A sale should be expected to complete within one year from the date of classification.
Current tax Current tax is accounted for on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively Leased assets enacted at the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer income statement, except when it relates to items charged to equity or other substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other comprehensive income, in which case the current tax is also dealt with in leases are classified as operating leases.
For property leases, the land and equity or other comprehensive income respectively.
building elements are treated separately to determine the appropriate lease classification.
Deferred tax a Finance leases Deferred tax is accounted for on the basis of temporary differences arising Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and from differences between the tax base and accounting base of assets and equipment and depreciated over their estimated useful lives or the lease liabilities.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences, except to the extent during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
The resulting lease where it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a obligations are included in liabilities net of finance charges.
Finance costs transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, onfinance leases are charged directly to the income statement.
affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.
It is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the b Operating leases balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can c Sale and leaseback be utilised.
A sale and leaseback transaction is one where a vendor sells an asset and immediately reacquires the use of that asset by entering into a lease with the Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it buyer.
The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive substance of the transaction and whether or not the sale was made at the income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity or other assets fair value.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any apparent profit or loss from the sale Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences associated with investments isdeferred and amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures except where the Group is able to leasebacks, generally the assets are sold at fair value, and the profit or loss control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable from the sale is recognised immediately in the income statement.
that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Following initial recognition, the lease treatment is consistent with those Provisions principles described above.
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that an outflow d Lease incentives of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation, and where the Lease incentives primarily include up-front cash payments or rent-free amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Lease incentives are capitalised and spread over the period of the at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the lease term.
obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase e Leases with predetermined fixed rental increases in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
The Group has a number of leases with predetermined fixed rental increases.
These rental increases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the term a Onerous leases of the lease.
The need for provisions for onerous leases, measured net of expected rental income, is assessed when the leased property becomes vacant and is no f Operating lease income longer used in the operations of the business or when the leased property Operating lease income consists of rentals from sub-tenant agreements relates to an unprofitable trading store.
Onerous lease provisions are andis recognised as earned on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
recognised after any impairment of assets.
Provisions for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease-by-lease basis.
Inventories Inventories comprise goods held for resale and properties held for, or in the b Onerous contracts course of, development and are valued on a weighted average cost basis and Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised where expected cash outflows carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value exceed the anticipated future benefits.
The amounts provided are based on represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion the Groups best estimate of the likely committed outflow net of anticipated and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Cost includes future benefits and after any impairment of pipeline development site assets all direct expenditure and other appropriate attributable costs incurred in where applicable.
bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by 1 Accounting policies continued reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as c Restructuring an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed credit to equity.
formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan Share capital or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Employee benefits Perpetual securities a Pensions Perpetual securities perpetual capital securities and perpetual convertible The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution pension bonds are issued securities that qualify for recognition as equity.
Accordingly schemes for its employees.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that any periodic returns are accounted for as dividends and recognised directly in defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on equity and as a liability at the time the Company becomes obligated to pay the retirement.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension plan under which the periodic return.
Any associated tax impacts are recognised directly in equity.
Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The defined benefit pension scheme is now closed to new employees and future accrual.
Foreign currencies a Foreign operations In respect of the defined benefit pension scheme, the pension scheme On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated surplus or deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference into sterling at year-end exchange rates.
The results of foreign operations between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined aretranslated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is Thefunctional currency of the Company is sterling.
actuarially calculated on an annual basis using the projected unit credit method.
Plan assets are recorded at fair value.
b Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the The income statement charge consists of a financing charge, which is the net exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities of interest cost on pension scheme liabilities and interest income on plan denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at assets and defined benefit pension scheme expenses.
The financing charge the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on isdetermined by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined translation are recognised in the income statement.
benefit obligation to the pension scheme liabilities and plan assets at the beginning of the financial year.
Financial instruments a Financial assets Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date value through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and receivables, and available-forare included as an accrual as at that date.
The Group has no further payment sale AFS.
AFS investments are initially measured at fair value including obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Financial assets held at FVTPL are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed.
b Long service awards The costs of long service awards are accrued over the period the service is Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading and those provided by the employee when it is probable that settlement will be required designated at FVTPL at inception.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading and they are capable of being measured reliably.
Liabilities recognised in unless they are accounted for as an effective hedging instrument.
Financial respect of long-term employee benefits are measured at the present value of assets at FVTPL are recorded at fair value, with any fair value gains or losses the estimated future cash outflows to be made by the Group in respect of recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
services provided by employees up to the reporting date.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either Share-based payments designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors of the Group They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to in the form of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares, Subsequent to initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, these rights over shares or the value of those shares in cash terms.
assets are recorded at fair value with the movements in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income until the financial asset is derecognised or For equity-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the employee impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in services rendered is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
awarded or options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in the income statement conditions.
All share options are valued using an option-pricing model when the entitys right to receive payment is established.
Interest on AFS debt Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo.
This fair value is charged to the income instruments is recognised using the effective interest method.
statement over the vesting period of the share-based payment scheme.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or For cash-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the employee determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The Group services rendered is determined at each balance sheet date and the charge has no intention of trading these loans and receivables.
They include recognised through the income statement over the vesting period of the amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers and amounts due from other share-based payment scheme, with the corresponding increase in accruals.
Subsequent to initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, these assets are carried at amortised cost less impairment using the effective The value of the charge is adjusted in the income statement over the interest method.
Income from these financial assets is calculated on an remainder of the vesting period to reflect expected and actual levels of options effective yield basis and is recognised in the income statement.
vesting, with the corresponding adjustments made in equity and accruals.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the the financial assets have expired or where the Group has transferred employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
99 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued A write-off is made when all or part of a claim is deemed uncollectable or forgiven.
1 Accounting policies continued Write-offs are charged against previously established provisions for impairment b Impairment of financial assets or directly to the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts An assessment of whether there is objective evidence of impairment is written off decrease the charge for loan impairment in the income statement.
carried out for all financial assets or groups of financial assets at the balance sheet date.
This assessment may be of individual assets individual An allowance for impairment losses is also maintained in respect of assets impairment or of a portfolio of assets collective impairment.
A financial which are impaired at the balance sheet date but which have not been asset or a group of financial assets is considered to be impaired if, and only if, identified as such, based on historical loss experience and other relevant there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events factors.
This includes analysis of the likelihood of a particular balance to move that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that into an arrears status within a defined period of time and application of an loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the appropriate loss rate.
The emergence period into an arrears state represents financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
the average time elapsed between the loss trigger event and default.
Themethodology and assumptions used are regularly reviewed to reduce For individual impairment, the principal loss event is one or more missed anydifferences between estimates and actual results.
payments, although other loss events can also be taken into account, including arrangements in place to pay less than the contractual payments, Interest-bearing bank loans, overdrafts, other deposits and amounts due to fraud and bankruptcy or other financial difficulty indicators.
An assessment Sainsburys Bank customers are recorded initially at fair value, which is of collective impairment will be made of financial assets with similar risk generally the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
For these assets, portfolio loss experience is used to provide liabilities are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
d Financial liabilities Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss exists on loans and Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption receivables, impairment provisions are made to reduce the carrying value of and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income financial assets to the present value of estimated future cash flows statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the charge to the income statement reflects the movement in the level of provisions made, together The fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined with amounts written off net of recoveries in the year.
using the market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds are or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is considered allocated to the conversion option.
This is recognised and included in in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for shareholders equity, net of income tax effects and is not subsequently available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss is removed from equity re-measured.
and recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative loss is measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and the equity components any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the of the convertible bonds based on their carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity e Fair value estimation instruments are not reversed.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a The methods and assumptions applied in determining the fair values of debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed in note 30. be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through f Offsetting financial instruments the income statement.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in thebalance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the Interest will continue to accrue on all financial assets, based on the written recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or down balance.
Interest is calculated using the rate of interest used to discount realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
To the enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be extent that a provision may be increased or decreased in subsequent periods, enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, the recognition of interest will be based on the latest balance net of provision.
insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
c Sainsburys Bank loans and advances including impairment Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting For Sainsburys Banks portfolios of loans, such as credit card lending and personal loans, impairment provisions are calculated for groups of assets, The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to otherwise impairment is identified at a counterparty specific level following foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity risks.
All derivative financial objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
Such evidence may instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are include a missed interest or principal payment or the breach of a banking also measured at fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Provisioning on unsecured balances identified as being in arrears is do not qualify for hedge accounting, any changes in the fair value of the calculated based on past experience, with regularly updated assumptions.
derivative financial instrument are recognised in the income statement as The present value of estimated cash flows recoverable is determined after finance income or costs as they arise.
taking into account any security held.
The amount of impairment is calculated by comparing the present value of the cash flows discounted at To qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents, at the inception of the the loans original effective interest rate with the balance sheet carrying value.
hedge, the hedging risk management strategy, the relationship between the If impaired, the carrying value is adjusted and the difference charged to the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction and the nature of the income statement and a provision recognised in the balance sheet.
The Group also documents the assessment of the effectiveness of the hedging relationship, to show that the hedge has been The written down value of the impaired loan is compounded back to its net and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
realisable balance over time using an effective interest rate.
This is reported through interest receivable within the income statement and represents the Where a derivative does qualify for hedge accounting, any changes in fair unwinding of the discount.
value are recognised depending on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged as follows: 100 Financial Statements b Operating lease commitments 1 Accounting policies continued The Group is party to commercial property leases on a number of its stores.
a Cash flow hedges Atinception of each lease, the terms and conditions of the arrangements are Hedge relationships are classified as cash flow hedges where the derivative evaluated to assess whether the lease terms constitute a major part of the financial instruments hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows economic life of the assets and whether the present value of the minimum resulting from a highly probable forecasted transaction.
These include the lease payments amount to substantially all of the fair value of the exchange rate risk of inventory purchases denominated in foreign currency, commercial property.
Where there is no evidence of this, management as well as the commodity risk on purchases of power and fuel.
Changes in the concludes that all the significant risks and rewards of ownership do not fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective transfer to the Group and these leases are accounted for as operating leases.
as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income c Consolidation of structured entities statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast A structured entity is one in which Sainsburys does not hold the majority transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, interest but for which management has concluded that voting rights are not at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity.
In making such an on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive assessment, management considers the terms of the arrangement to assess income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For who has responsibility for the management of the entity and its assets.
more information on the cash flow hedges within the Group, see note 30.
Where Sainsburys has this responsibility, it is deemed that the Group controlsthe entity and it is fully consolidated into the Group accounts.
b Fair value hedges Hedge relationships are classified as fair value hedges where the derivative Estimates and assumptions financial instruments hedge the change in the fair value of a financial asset orliability due to movements in interest rates.
The changes in fair value of The areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial thehedging instrument are recognised in the income statement.
The hedged statements are as described below.
The estimates and associated item is also adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the hedged risk, assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that with the corresponding adjustment made in the income statement.
For more are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which information on the fair value hedges within the Group, see note 30. form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may c Portfolio fair value hedging differ from these estimates.
During the period the Bank used portfolio fair value hedging as a risk management tool for hedging interest rate risk on the personal loans a Goodwill impairment portfolio.
Portfolio fair value hedging allows the designation of the whole or The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any impairment part of a portfolio of assets or liabilities with similar risk exposures.
The loss, based on the recoverable amount of the CGU or group of CGUs to which it hedged item can be designated based on expected maturities to match the is allocated.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined hedging derivative maturity.
based on value in use calculations and these calculations require the use of estimates in relation to future cash flows and suitable discount rates as Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is disclosed in note 12.
Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised b Impairment of assets other than goodwill in other comprehensive income is retained in equity until the forecasted Financial and non-financial assets are subject to impairment reviews based transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest that their net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is recoverable amount may be less than their carrying value.
Recoverable transferred to the income statement for the period.
amount is based on the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs to dispose.
Value in use is calculated from expected future cash flows using suitable discount rates and includes management assumptions and 2 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and estimates of future performance as disclosed in note 11. assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the Impairment loss calculations on loans and advances within Sainsburys Bank use of judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported note 17 b involve the estimation of future cash flows of financial assets, amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and based on observable data at the balance sheet date and historical loss the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
This will typically Those which are significant to the Group are discussed separately below: take into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience and default levels.
These calculations are undertaken on a portfolio basis using Judgements various statistical modelling techniques.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, which have the most significant effect on Impairment models are continually reviewed to ensure data and assumptions the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: are appropriate, with the most material assumption being around expected loss rates.
The accuracy of any such impairment calculation will be affected a Assets and liabilities held for sale by unexpected changes to the economic situation, and assumptions which At each balance sheet date management assesses whether any assets and differ from actual outcomes.
As such, judgement is applied when determining liabilities, whose carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction the levels of provisioning.
rather than continued use, meet the definition of held for sale.
Where there is an active plan in place to locate a buyer, management consider such assets and liabilities to meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale if they are available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable.
For more information on the assets and liabilities held for sale, refer to note 18.
101 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued Supplier arrangement amounts recognised in the income statement for the 2 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and above two categories in the financial year are as follows: assumptions continued c Post-employment benefits 2016 2015 The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees.
The present m m value of the schemes liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date and the Supplier arrangements recognised in net financing charge recognised in the income statement are dependent on cost of sales interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
Other key assumptions within Supplier rebates 69 88 this calculation are based on market conditions or estimates of future events, Fixed amounts 302 551 including mortality rates, as set out in note 31.
Any changes to assumptions Total supplier arrangements 371 639 used will impact the carrying value of the retirement benefit obligation.
As detailed in note 31, the retirement benefit obligations are most sensitive to Of the above amounts, the following was outstanding and held on the changes in the discount rate.
balance sheet at year-end: d Provisions Provisions have been made for onerous leases, onerous contracts, 2016 2015 m m dilapidations, restructuring, long service awards and self-insured claims.
Within current trade receivables These provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events and market conditions.
Any difference Supplier arrangements due 6 13 between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
The carrying amount of Within current trade payables provisions will be impacted by changes in the discount rate.
Details of Supplier arrangements due 39 94 provisions are set out in note 22.
Accrued supplier arrangements 25 47 e Income taxes 3 Non-GAAP performance measures The Group recognises expected liabilities for tax based on an estimation of the likely taxes due, which requires significant judgement as to the ultimate Certain items recognised in reported profit or loss before tax can vary tax determination of certain items.
Where the actual liability arising from significantly from year to year and therefore create volatility in reported these items differs from these estimates, such differences will have an impact earnings which does not reflect the Groups underlying performance.
on income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period when such Similarly, whilst defined benefit pension scheme expenses may not vary determination is made.
Details of the tax charge and deferred tax are set out significantly, they no longer relate to the Groups ongoing activities given the in notes 8 and 21 respectively.
closure of the defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual.
In addition the coupons on the perpetual securities, whilst accounted for as equity in line f Determining fair values with IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation, are accrued on a straightThe fair value of financial assets and liabilities are based on prices available line basis and included as an expense within underlying profit.
from the market on which the instruments are traded.
Where market values are not available, the fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been The Directors believe that the underlying revenue, underlying profit before calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest tax UPBT and underlying diluted and basic earnings per share measures rates.
The fair values of short-term deposits, trade receivables, overdrafts and presented provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying payables are assumed to approximate to their book values.
performance of Sainsburys ongoing business for shareholders.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable g Supplier arrangements with the adjusted profit measures of other companies.
Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts, collectively known as supplier arrangements, represent a material deduction to cost of sales and directly The adjusted items are: affect the Groups reported margin.
The arrangements can be complex, with Profit on disposal of properties: amounts spanning multiple products over different time periods, and there Investment property fair value movements these reflect the difference can be multiple triggers and discounts.
The three key types are explained in between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date the cost of sales accounting policy on pages 96 and 97.
The areas requiring a and its carrying amount at the previous reporting date: level of judgement and estimation involved are considered below: Retail financing fair value movements these are fair value gains and Fixed amounts these involve a degree of judgement and estimation in losses on non-derivative financial assets and liabilities carried at ensuring the appropriate cut-off of arrangements for fixed amounts which amortised cost, on derivatives relating to financing activities and on span period-end.
These require judgement to determine when the terms hedged items in fair value hedges: of the arrangement are satisfied and that amounts are recognised in the correct period.
The financing element of IAS 19 and defined benefit pension scheme expenses: Supplier rebates these are agreed with a supplier on an annual basis and require estimates of the amount earned up to the balance sheet date, for Coupons on perpetual securities these are accounted for as equity in line each relevant supplier contract.
Where agreements span a financial with IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation, however are accrued on period-end, estimations are required of projected turnover and judgement a straight-line basis and included as an expense within underlying profit may also need to be applied to determine the rebate level earned as see note 25 : agreements may involve multiple tiers.
In order to minimise any risk Acquisition adjustments these reflect the adjustments arising from arising from estimation, supplier confirmations are obtained to agree the theSainsburys Bank acquisition including the fair value unwind and value to be recognised at year-end, prior to it being invoiced.
Rebates amortisation of acquired intangibles: and represent the smallest element of Sainsburys supplier arrangements and One-off items these are items which are material and infrequent in by aligning the agreements to Sainsburys financial year, where possible, nature and do not relate to the Groups underlying performance.
the judgements required are minimised.
102 Financial Statements 3 Non-GAAP performance measures continued The adjustments made to reported profit loss before tax to arrive at underlying profit before tax are: 2016 2015 m m Underlying profit before tax 587 681 1 Profit on disposal of properties 101 7 Investment property fair value movements 18 7 2 Retail financing fair value movements 22 30 3 IAS 19 pension financing charge and scheme expenses 28 37 4 Perpetual securities coupons 15 5 Acquisition adjustments 3 13 One-off items 90 713 Total adjustments 39 753 Profit loss before tax 548 72 1.
Pr ofit on disposal of properties for the financial year comprised 100 million for the Group 2015: 5 million and 1 million for the property joint ventures 2015: 2 million.
Retail financing fair value movements for the financial year comprised 20 million for the Group 2015: 23 million and 2 million for the joint ventures 2015: 7 million.
Comprises pension financing charge of 22 million 2015: 31 million and defined benefit scheme expenses of 6 million 2015: 6 million.
The c oupons on the perpetual subordinated capital securities and the perpetual subordinated convertible bonds are accounted for as equity in line with IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation, howeverare accrued on a straight-line basis and included as an expense within underlying profit before tax.
A cquisition adjustments include 11 million 2015: 23 million fair value unwind included in revenue, 2 million 2015: 8 million fair value unwind included in cost of sales offset by 10 million 2015: 18 million acquired intangible amortisation included in administrative expenses.
The tax impact of adjusted items is included within note 8.
One-off items One-off items of 90 million 2015: 713 million include: 2016 2015 m m Net impairment and onerous contract charge 1 628 Sainsburys Bank transition 59 53 Pension compensation payments 17 Internal restructuring 15 15 1 Transaction costs 15 90 713 1.
Transaction costs in 2016 are those incurred as part of the approach to Home Retail Group plc and the sale of the pharmacy business.
4 Segment reporting The Groups businesses are organised into three operating segments: Retailing supermarkets and convenience : Financial services Sainsburys Bank : and Property investments joint ventures with the British Land Company PLC and Land Securities Group PLC.
Management has determined the operating segments based on the information provided to the Operating Board the Chief Operating Decision Maker for the Group to make operational decisions on the management of the Group.
All material operations and assets are in the UK.
The business of the Group is not subject to highly seasonal fluctuations, although within retailing there is an increase in trading in the period leading up to Christmas.
Revenue from operating segments is measured on a basis consistent with the revenue number in the income statement.
Revenue is generated by the sale of goods and services, as set out in note 1.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one period.
The Operating Board assesses the performance of all segments on the basis of underlying profit before tax.
The reconciliation provided below reconciles underlying operating profit from each of the segments disclosed to profit loss before tax.
103 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segment reporting continued Financial Property Retailing services investments Group 52 weeks to 12 March 2016 m m m m Segment revenue Retail sales to external customers 23,168 23,168 Financial services to external customers 327 327 Underlying revenue 23,168 327 23,495 1 Acquisition adjustment fair value unwind 11 11 Revenue 23,168 338 23,506 Underlying operating profit 635 65 700 Underlying finance income 19 19 2 Underlying finance costs 140 140 Underlying share of post-tax loss profit from joint ventures and associates 7 15 8 Underlying profit before tax 507 65 15 587 Profit on disposal of properties 100 1 101 Investment property fair value movements 18 18 Retail financing fair value movements 20 2 22 IAS 19 pension financing charge and scheme expenses 28 28 2 Perpetual securities coupons 15 15 Acquisition adjustments 3 3 One-off items: Net impairment and onerous contract charge 1 1 Sainsburys Bank transition 59 59 Internal restructuring 15 15 Transaction costs 15 15 Profit loss before tax 543 9 4 548 Income tax expense 77 Profit for the financial year 471 Assets 12,115 4,531 16,646 Investment in joint ventures and associates 16 311 327 Segment assets 12,131 4,531 311 16,973 Segment liabilities 6,727 3,881 10,608 Other segment items 3 Capital expenditure 654 35 689 Depreciation expense 552 7 559 4 Amortisation expense 14 11 25 5 Net impairment and onerous contract charge 1 1 Share-based payments 22 1 23 1.
R epresents fair value unwind on loans and advances to customers resulting from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition.
The c oupons on the perpetual capital securities and the perpetual convertible bonds are accounted for as equity in line with IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation, however are accrued on a straight-line basis and included as an expense within underlying finance costs, as detailed in note 3.
R etail capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 635 million and intangible asset additions of 19 million.
Financial services capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 20 million and intangible asset additions of 15 million.
Amortisation expense within the financial services segment includes 10 million of intangible asset amortisation arising from Sainsburys Bank acquisition fair value adjustments.
Net impairment and onerous contract charge includes a 9 million impairment reversal recognised against property, plant and equipment as detailed in note 11.
104 Financial Statements 4 Segment reporting continued Financial Property Retailing services investments Group 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 m m m m Segment revenue Retail sales to external customers 23,443 23,443 Financial services to external customers 309 309 Underlying revenue 23,443 309 23,752 1 Acquisition adjustment fair value unwind 23 23 Revenue 23,443 332 23,775 Underlying operating profit 720 62 782 Underlying finance income 19 19 Underlying finance costs 126 126 Underlying share of post-tax loss profit from joint ventures and associates 9 15 6 Underlying profit before tax 604 62 15 681 Profit on disposal of properties 5 2 7 Investment property fair value movements 7 7 Retail financing fair value movements 23 7 30 IAS 19 pension financing charge and scheme expenses 37 37 Acquisition adjustments 13 13 One-off items: Impairment and onerous contract charge 628 628 Sainsburys Bank transition 53 53 Internal restructuring costs 17 17 Pension compensation payments 15 15 Loss profit before tax 111 22 17 72 Income tax expense 94 Loss for the financial year 166 Assets 11,908 4,270 16,178 Investment in joint ventures and associates 8 351 359 Segment assets 11,916 4,270 351 16,537 Segment liabilities 7,232 3,766 10,998 Other segment items 2 Capital expenditure 968 82 1,050 Depreciation expense 540 5 545 3 Amortisation expense 14 20 34 4 Impairment 548 548 Share-based payments 21 21 1.
R etail capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 951 million and intangible asset additions of 17 million.
Financial services capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 14 million and intangible asset additions of 68 million.
A mortisation expense within the financial services segment includes 18 million of intangible asset amortisation arising from Sainsburys Bank acquisition fair value adjustments.
Impairment cha rge includes 540 million recognised against property, plant and equipment and 8 million against intangible assets, as detailed in note 11 and note 12.
105 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Operating profit 2016 2015 m m Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following items: Employee costs note 7 2,541 2,445 Depreciation expense note 11 559 545 1 Amortisation expense note 12 25 34 Profit on disposal of properties note 3 100 5 Operating lease rentals: Land and buildings 532 516 Other leases 73 72 Sublease payments receivable 49 41 Foreign exchange losses gains 24 12 Impairment losses on loans and advances 15 21 Acquisition adjustments note 3 3 13 2,3 One-off items note 3 90 713 1.
A mortisation expense includes 10 million 2015: 18 million amortisation on acquired intangibles resulting from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition fair value adjustments also included in acquisition adjustments in this note.
One-off items includes 8 million 2015: 17 million employee restructuring costs also included in employee costs in this note.
One-off it ems includes an impairment reversal of 9 million 2015: 540 million charge recognised against property, plant and equipment and a charge of nil 2015: 8 million against intangible assets, as detailed in note 11 and note 12.
2016 2015 Group m m 1 Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.4 0.7 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Tax advisory, tax compliance, and other non-audit fees 0.1 Total fees 0.8 1.2 1.
The prior year also included 0.3 million of audit fees relating to Sainsburys Bank by  LLP.
1,2 6 Finance income and finance costs 2016 2015 m m Interest on bank deposits and other financial assets 19 19 Finance income 19 19 Interest costs: Secured borrowings 88 84 Unsecured borrowings 30 47 Obligations under finance leases 9 9 Provisions amortisation of discount note 22 5 3 132 143 Other finance costs: Interest capitalised qualifying assets note 11 7 17 3 Retail financing fair value movements 20 23 IAS 19 pension financing charge note 31 22 31 35 37 Finance costs 167 180 1.
Sainsbur ys Banks interest income is reported in revenue and interest cost is reported in cost of sales, and therefore not included in this note.
The c oupons on the perpetual capital securities and the perpetual convertible bonds included within underlying profit see note 3 are accounted for as dividends in accordance with IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation and hence are not a finance cost.
R etail financing fair value movements include net fair value movements on derivative financial instruments not designated in a hedging relationship of 20 million 2015: 18 million and fair value movements on early repayment of bank loans carried at amortised cost of nil 2015: 5 million.
106 Financial Statements 7 Employee costs 2016 2015 m m Employee costs for the Group during the year amounted to: Wages and salaries, including bonus and termination benefits 2,272 2,180 Social security costs 148 144 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 98 100 Share-based payments expense note 32 23 21 2,541 2,445 Number Number 000s 000s The average number of employees, including Directors, during the year was: Full-time 48.0 48.9 Part-time 114.7 112.2 162.7 161.1 Full-time equivalent 108.3 107.4 Details of key management compensation can be found in note 37 and within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 79.
8 Income tax expense 2016 2015 m m Current tax expense: Current year UK tax 105 123 Current year overseas tax 1 Over-provision in prior years 17 26 Total current tax expense 88 98 Deferred tax credit: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 17 25 Under-provision in prior years 7 20 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 35 1 Total deferred tax credit note 21 11 4 Total income tax expense in income statement 77 94 Underlying tax rate 20.8% 25.8% Effective tax rate 14.1% 130.6 % The effective tax rate of 14.1 per cent 2015: 130.6 per cent is lower than 2015: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences areexplained below: 2016 2015 m m Profit loss before tax 548 72 Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 20.05% 2015: 21.09% 110 15 Effects of underlying items: Disallowed depreciation on UK properties 26 30 Over-provision in prior years 1 5 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 20 1 Other 1 6 Effects of non-underlying items: Profit on disposal of properties 21 6 Investment property fair value movements 4 1 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 15 Over-provision in prior years 9 1 Impairment 84 Other one-off items 4 1 Total income tax expense in income statement 77 94 107 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Income tax expense continued The tax impact of items excluded from underlying profit is shown below: 2016 2015 m m Income tax expense on underlying profit 122 176 Tax on items excluded from underlying profit: Profit on disposal of properties 2 10 Retail financing fair value movements 4 5 IAS 19 pension financing charge and scheme expenses 6 8 Perpetual securities coupon 3 Acquisition adjustments 1 4 One-off items 20 63 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 15 Total income tax expense in income statement 77 94 Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate were substantively enacted in the year.
The main rate of corporation tax was reduced from 20 per cent to 19 per cent effective from 1 April 2017 and to 18 per cent from 1 April 2020.
Deferred tax on temporary differences and tax losses as at the balance sheet date is calculated at the substantively enacted rates at which the temporary differences and tax losses are expected to reverse.
A further reduction in the corporation tax rate to 17 per cent, rather than 18 per cent, from 1 April 2020 was announced in the 2016 Budget.
However, this further rate change was not substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, so its effect is not reflected in these financial statements.
The effect of a one per cent reduction in the corporation tax rate on the deferred tax balances at the balance sheet date would reduce the deferred tax liability by 13million which is primarily recognised in the income statement.
Income tax charged or credited to equity and or other comprehensive income during the year is as follows: Retirement Perpetual benefit Fair value security obligations movements coupons Total m m m m 52 weeks to 12 March 2016 Current tax recognised in equityor other comprehensive income 6 6 Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 36 3 33 Income tax charged credited 36 3 6 27 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 Current tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 6 6 Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 1 9 8 Income tax credited 5 9 14 The current and deferred tax in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes remeasurements, available-for-sale fair value movements and perpetual securities coupons have been charged or credited through other comprehensive income where appropriate.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts note 26, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders are adjusted by the interest on the senior convertible bonds net of tax and by the coupons on the perpetual subordinated convertible bonds net of tax.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the number of shares that would be issued if all senior convertible bonds and perpetual subordinated convertible bonds are assumed to be converted.
Underlying earnings per share is provided by excluding the effect of any profit or loss on disposal of properties, investment property fair value movements, retail financing fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, IAS 19 pension financing and defined benefit pension scheme expenses, acquisition adjustments and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature see note 3.
This alternative measure of earnings per share is presented to reflect theGroups underlying trading performance.
All operations are continuing for the periods presented.
108 Financial Statements 9 Earnings per share continued 2016 2015 million million Weighted average number of shares in issue 1,920.8 1,911.0 Weighted average number of dilutive share options 14.6 17.3 Weighted average number of dilutive senior convertible bonds 131.4 62.3 Weighted average number of dilutive subordinated perpetual convertible bonds 41.4 Total number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share 2,108.2 1,990.6 m m Profit loss for the financial year net of tax 471 166 Less profit attributable to: Holders of perpetual capital securities 8 Holders of perpetual convertible bonds 4 1 Profit loss for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders 459 166 m m Profit loss for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 459 166 2 Add interest on senior convertible bonds, net of tax 11 Add coupon on subordinated perpetual convertible bonds, net of tax 4 Diluted earnings loss for calculating diluted earnings per share 474 166 m m Profit loss for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent 459 166 Adjusted for net of tax : Profit on disposal of properties 103 17 Investment property fair value movements 18 7 Retail financing fair value movements 18 25 IAS 19 pension financing charge and scheme expenses 22 29 Acquisition adjustments 4 9 One-off items 70 650 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 15 3 Underlying profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent 465 505 Add interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 11 7 Add coupon on subordinated perpetual convertible bonds, net of tax 4 Diluted underlying profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent 480 512 Pence Pence per share per share Basic earnings loss 23.9 8.7 Diluted earnings loss 22.5 8.7 Underlying basic earnings 24.2 26.4 Underlying diluted earnings 22.8 25.7 1.
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent is calculated in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per share.
Dil utive share options and convertible bonds have been excluded from the calculation in 2015, as in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per share, they are only included where the impact is dilutive.
Und erlying earnings per share calculation is based on underlying profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders.
Therefore the coupons on the perpetual securities note 25 are not added back.
10 Dividend 2016 2015 Pence Pence 2016 2015 per share per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year: Final dividend of prior financial year 8.2 12.3 157 234 Interim dividend of current financial year 4.0 5.0 77 96 12.2 17.3 234 330 After the balance sheet date, a final dividend of 8.1 pence per share 2015: 8.2 pence per share was proposed by the Directors in respect of the 52 weeks to 12 March 2016, resulting in a total final proposed dividend of 155 million 2015: 157 million.
The proposed final dividend has not been included as a liability at 12 March 2016.
The dividend was approved by the Board on 3 May 2016.
109 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Property, plant and equipment Group Group Company Land and Fixtures and Group Land and buildings equipment Total buildings m m m m Cost At 15 March 2015 9,932 4,922 14,854 2 Additions 259 396 655 Disposals 152 173 325 1 Transfer from to assets held for sale 75 75 2 At 12 March 2016 10,114 5,145 15,259 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 15 March 2015 2,249 2,957 5,206 1 Depreciation expense for the year 166 393 559 2 Impairment reversal 9 9 Disposals 97 168 265 Transfer from to assets held for sale 4 4 1 At 12 March 2016 2,313 3,182 5,495 Net book value at 12 March 2016 7,801 1,963 9,764 Capital work-in-progress included above 259 83 342 Cost At 16 March 2014 9,652 5,049 14,701 19 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5 5 Additions 475 485 960 Disposals 110 608 718 Transfer to assets held for sale 90 4 94 17 At 14 March 2015 9,932 4,922 14,854 2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 16 March 2014 1,774 3,047 4,821 3 Depreciation expense for the year 158 387 545 Impairment 412 128 540 Disposals 86 604 690 Transfer to assets held for sale 9 1 10 2 At 14 March 2015 2,249 2,957 5,206 1 Net book value at 14 March 2015 7,683 1,965 9,648 1 Capital work-in-progress included above 322 90 412 1.
T ransfers from assets held for sale include land and buildings with a net book value of 83 million transferred to, and land and buildings with a net book value of 12 million which were transferred from, property, plant and equipment during the year.
An impairment reversal of 9 million was recognised on land where there has been an increase in the market value during the year.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets, property, plant and equipment is only tested for impairment in the event that a triggering event is identified.
No such trigger was identified this year.
In the prior year, an impairment of 540 million was recognised, as detailed in note 4.
The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, following a triggering event, each store is a cash-generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amounts for the CGUs are based on value in use which is calculated on the cash flows expected to be generated by the stores using the latest budget and forecast data, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
Budget and forecast data reflect both past experience and future expectation of market conditions.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculation are the discount rate, sales growth rates and expected changes in operating margins.
Changes in income and expenditure are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
Board approved cash flow projections for five years are used and then extrapolated out assuming flat cash flows and discounted at a pre-tax rate of nine per cent 2015: nine per cent over the earlier of a 25-year period, being the estimated average remaining useful life of a freehold store, or lease length for leasehold stores.
The discount rate is based on the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Non-store assets, including depots, store pipeline development sites and IT assets, and the property, plant and equipment of Sainsburys Bank are reviewed separately for impairment in the event that a triggering event is identified.
When an impairment review is required, the carrying value of the asset is compared with its value in use using a methodology consistent with that described above or with its fair value less costs to dispose to determine the recoverable amount.
The key assumptions in the fair value less costs to dispose include expected future rental yields, estimated costs to completion, where applicable, and consideration of alternative use values.
110 Financial Statements 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Interest capitalised Interest capitalised included in additions amounted to 7 million 2015: 17 million for the Group and nil 2015: nil for the Company.
Accumulated interest capitalised included in the cost of property, plant and equipment net of disposals amounted to 348 million 2015: 360 million for the Group and nil 2015:nil for the Company.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 4.0 per cent 2015: 4.3 per cent.
Security Property, plant and equipment of 195 2015: 125 supermarket properties, with a net book value of 3.6bn 2015: 2.1bn, has been pledged as security for long-term financing note 20.
In addition, property, plant and equipment of a further six supermarket properties, with a net book value of 64 million 2015: 65 million, has been pledged as security to underpin the residual value guarantee given by the Group with regards to 16 supermarket properties sold in March 2000 and ten supermarket properties sold in July 2000.
On 17 June 2010, property, plant and equipment comprising eight supermarket properties, with a net book value of 167 million, were transferred to the Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership the partnership and a further 13 properties with a net book value of 345 million on 25 March 2011.
On 26 February 2016, one property with a net book value of 17 million was substituted out of the partnership for a further four properties with a net book value of 52 million see note 31.
Analysis of assets held under finance leases 2016 2016 2015 2015 Land and Fixtures and 2016 Land and Fixtures and 2015 buildings equipment Total buildings equipment Total Group m m m m m m Cost 82 82 75 75 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 30 30 29 29 Net book value 52 52 46 46 12 Intangible assets Computer Acquired Goodwill software intangibles Other Total Group m m m m m Cost At 15 March 2015 143 197 39 49 428 Additions 34 34 Disposals 1 1 Transfer to assets held for resale 39 39 At 12 March 2016 142 231 39 10 422 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 15 March 2015 4 44 19 36 103 Amortisation expense for the year 15 10 25 Transfer to assets held for sale 35 35 At 12 March 2016 4 59 29 1 93 Net book value at 12 March 2016 138 172 10 9 329 Cost At 16 March 2014 145 186 39 48 418 Additions 84 1 85 Disposals 2 73 75 At 14 March 2015 143 197 39 49 428 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 16 March 2014 1 96 1 34 132 Amortisation expense for the year 15 18 1 34 Impairment 3 4 1 8 Disposals 71 71 At 14 March 2015 4 44 19 36 103 Net book value at 14 March 2015 139 153 20 13 325 111 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets continued Goodwill comprises the following: 2016 2015 m m Jacksons Stores Limited 53 53 Sainsburys Bank plc 45 45 Bells Stores Limited 17 17 Other 23 24 138 139 The goodwill balances above are allocated to the respective cash-generating units CGUs or group of CGUs within the retailing or financial services segment.
The CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated and the level at which it is monitored in the retailing segment are deemed to be the respective acquired retail chains of stores, whilst within financial services Sainsburys Bank is a separate CGU.
The value of the goodwill was tested for impairment during the current financial year by means of comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU or group ofCGUs with the carrying value of its goodwill.
The calculation of the retail CGUs value in use is detailed in note 11.
The Sainsburys Bank CGUs value in use is calculated using Board approved cash flows discounted at a pre-tax rate of nine per cent over a five-year period with a terminal value.
Based on the operating performance of the CGUs, an impairment of retail goodwill of nil was identified in the current financial year 2015: 3 million.
Thevaluations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions would not result in any impairment of goodwill.
Acquired intangibles relating to customer relationships, purchased credit card relationships and the value of core deposits were recognised as part of the fair value accounting on the acquisition of Sainsburys Bank.
Other intangibles primarily comprised pharmacy licences.
The transfers in the year relate to pharmacy licences being transferred to assets held for resale.
Further detail about the sale of the pharmacy business can be found in note 18.
13 Investment in subsidiaries 2016 2015 m m Shares in subsidiaries Company Beginning of the year 7,630 7,562 Additions 160 530 Disposals 3,294 450 Provision for diminution in value of investment 23 Release of provision for diminution in value of investment 4 11 End of the year 4,500 7,630 A full list of the Companys subsidiaries is included in note 38.
All principal operating subsidiaries operate in the countries of their registration or incorporation.
Sainsburys Bank plc has been consolidated for the 12 months to 29 February 2016, the Banks nearest month-end to the Groups year-end, as it is impractical to close the Bank mid-month.
Adjustments have been made for the effects of significant transactions or events that occurred between this date and the Groups balance sheet date.
A provision of nil 2015: 23 million was made against investments in subsidiaries where the carrying value exceeded the recoverable amount.
During the year a number of subsidiaries were liquidated as part of a corporate simplification project.
This resulted in dividends received of 5,307 million anda subsequent disposal of subsidiaries of 3,294 million.
Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership and Sainsburys Property Scottish Limited Partnership are two partnerships the Group has an interest in, which are fully consolidated into these Group accounts.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has therefore not appended the accounts of these qualifying partnerships to these accounts.
Separate accounts for these partnerships are not required to be, and have not been, filed at Companies House.
112 Financial Statements 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates Group share of postGroup shares acquisition Company at cost reserves Group total shares at cost m m m m At 15 March 2015 296 63 359 18 Additions 18 18 15 1 Dividends and distributions received 13 33 46 2 Share of retained profit: Underlying profit after tax 10 10 Investment property fair value movements 18 18 Retail financing fair value movements 2 2 Share of profit on disposal of properties 1 1 Unrealised profit on disposal of properties 4 4 305 21 326 33 Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 1 1 At 12 March 2016 305 22 327 33 At 16 March 2014 318 86 404 6 Additions 12 12 12 Disposals 4 4 1 Dividends and distributions received 30 40 70 Share of retained profit: Underlying profit after tax 12 12 Investment property fair value movements 7 7 Retail financing fair value movements 7 7 Share of profit on disposal of properties 2 2 296 60 356 18 Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 3 3 At 14 March 2015 296 63 359 18 1.
The dividends and distributions received include 13 million 2015: 30 million return of partner capital.
In addition to the above, 2 million share of joint venture losses 2015: 6 million was recognised in relation to joint ventures with a carrying value of nil.
The Groups principal joint venture is: Share of Country of Statutory ordinary registration or year-end allotted capital incorporation BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited property investment 31 March 50% England A full list of the Groups joint ventures is included in note 38.
Joint ventures with a different year-end date to the Group are reported to include the results up to 29 February 2016, the nearest month-end to the Groups year-end.
BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited joint venture continues to be reported to the Groups year-end 12 March 2016.
Management accounts for the joint ventures are used where relevant and adjustments have been made for the effects of significant transactions or events that occurred between 29 February and the Groups balance sheet date.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its joint ventures are detailed below: 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 499 558 Current assets 83 53 Current liabilities 58 45 Non-current liabilities 210 218 Net assets 314 348 Provision for share of joint venture losses 8 6 Goodwill 5 5 Investments in joint ventures and associates 327 359 Income 80 73 Expenses 73 72 Investment property fair value movements 18 7 Share of joint venture loss profit after tax 11 8 113 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued The total assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Groups principal joint venture BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited are detailed below: 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 946 1,038 Current assets excluding cash and cash equivalents 2 3 Cash and cash equivalents 65 8 Current liabilities 28 21 Non-current liabilities 417 435 Joint venture net assets 568 593 Revenue 55 60 Other expenses 41 19 Other income 3 14 Interest expense 24 28 Joint venture loss profit 7 27 Analysed as: Underlying joint venture profit before tax 30 31 Profit loss on disposal of properties 3 4 Retail financing fair value movements 4 14 Investment property fair value movements 36 14 7 27 Income tax expense 3 6 Joint venture loss profit after tax 10 21 Other comprehensive income net of tax 1 3 Total comprehensive loss income 9 24 The joint venture had no other capital commitments nor contingent liabilities other than those disclosed in notes 34 and 36.
15 Available-for-sale financial assets Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Non-current Unlisted equity investments 3 2 Investment securities 156 Interest bearing financial assets 35 37 35 37 Other financial assets 146 145 340 184 35 37 Current Investment securities 48 388 184 35 37 The other financial asset represents the Groups beneficial interest in a commercial property investment pool.
The fair value of the other financial asset is based on discounted cash flows assuming a property rental growth rate of 0.6 per cent 2015: 0.8 per cent and a weighted average cost of capital of nine per cent 2015: nine per cent.
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets in either the current or the previous financial year see note 30 for sensitivity analysis.
16 Inventories 2016 2015 m m Goods held for resale 967 994 Development properties 1 3 968 997 The amount of inventories recognised as an expense and charged to cost of sales for the 52 weeks to 12 March 2016 was 17,210 million 2015: 17,501 million.
114 Financial Statements 17 Receivables a Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Non-current Amounts owed by Group entities 1,531 1,363 Other receivables 92 73 92 73 1,531 1,363 Prepayments and accrued income 11 10 103 83 1,531 1,363 Current Trade receivables 96 101 Amounts owed by Group entities 1,189 1,395 Other receivables 305 271 401 372 1,189 1,395 Prepayments and accrued income 107 99 6 4 508 471 1,195 1,399 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are on commercial terms.
Current other receivables of 305 million 2015: 271 million, which include 170million 2015: 121 million of bank funds in the course of settlement, are generally non-interest bearing.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in sterling.
The Groups exposure to credit risk arising from its retail operations is minimal given that the customer base is large and unrelated and that the overwhelming majority of customer transactions are settled through cash or secure electronic means.
New parties wishing to obtain credit terms with the Group are credit checked prior to invoices being raised and credit limits are determined on an individual basis.
b Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 2016 2015 m m Non-current Loans and advances to customers 1,680 1,444 Impairment of loans and advances 31 32 1,649 1,412 Current Loans and advances to customers 1,743 1,654 Impairment of loans and advances 48 55 1,695 1,599 Loans and advances to customers accrue interest at the effective interest rate.
Sainsburys Bank has pledged the rights to 468 million 2015: 487 million ofits personal loans book with the Bank of England for 240 million 2015: 240 million of Treasury Bills under the Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme.
These Treasury Bills can then be converted to cash as a source of future funding to the Bank.
As at 12 March 2016, there was nil 2015: nil borrowings drawn down.
Sainsburys Bank has assigned the beneficial interest in 379 million 2015: 191 million of its personal loans book to a Special Purpose Entity for use as collateral in securitisation transactions, facilitating 300 million 2015: 150 million of drawings.
Refer to note 29 for details on Sainsburys Bank credit risk.
c Provision for impairment of loans and advances 2016 2015 m m Opening provision 87 83 Additional provisions 15 21 Utilisation of provision 22 16 Amortisation of discount 1 1 Closing provision 79 87 115 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Receivables continued d Major counterparties Major counterparties are identified as follows: 2016 2016 2015 2015 Number of Balance Number of Balance counterparties m counterparties m Other receivables 2 43 2 35 Related parties 1 13 The related party receivable in 2015 is from the Groups joint venture, The Harvest Limited Partnership.
This was repaid in the current financial year.
Loans are approved by the Investment Committee.
No major counterparty balances are considered overdue or impaired.
18 Assets and liabilities held for sale Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Retail segment properties 9 84 1 15 Assets relating to pharmacy business: Fixed assets 3 Intangible assets 4 Inventory 15 31 84 1 15 Liabilities relating to pharmacy business: Creditors 4 4 On 29 July 2015 Sainsburys signed a Business Sale Agreement BSA to sell its pharmacy business to Celesio, the owner of LloydsPharmacy for a headline price of 125 million.
The transaction is expected to complete during the year ending 11 March 2017 and therefore the assets and liabilities relating to the pharmacy business are classed as held for sale at the current financial year-end.
Management considers the assets and liabilities to meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale as the business is available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable.
The cash consideration of 125 million was received on 29 February 2016 as an advance payment.
This income has been deferred at year-end and presented as a liability within current creditors.
For the Group, of the assets held for sale at 14 March 2015, 1million worth was sold during the financial year ended 12 March 2016, with the remainder being re-classified from held for sale to plant, property and equipment due to a management decision to no longer sell these assets.
All of the Companys assets held for sale at 14 March 2015 were sold during the current financial year.
116 Financial Statements 19 Payables a Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Current Trade payables 2,082 2,089 Amounts owed to Group entities 125 4,403 Other payables 590 580 32 19 Accruals and deferred income gains 405 292 3,077 2,961 157 4,422 Non-current Amounts owed to Group entities 692 798 Other payables 6 9 Accruals and deferred income gains 263 256 269 265 692 798 The Groups policy on payment of creditors is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
Accruals and deferred income gains includes accounting for leases with fixed rental increases and lease incentives on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Also included within current accruals and deferred income gains is the 125 million advance payment received as consideration for the sale of the pharmacy business.
The decrease in Company intercompany payables is as a result of the corporate simplification project referred to in note 13.
Foreign currency risk The Group has net Euro denominated trade payables of 11 million 2015: 16 million and US dollar denominated trade payables of 49 million 2015: 46 million.
b Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 2016 2015 m m Current Customer accounts 3,026 3,305 Other deposits 29 20 Senior secured loan notes 118 70 3,173 3,395 Non-current Customer accounts 182 185 Other deposits 219 3 Senior secured loan notes 181 78 582 266 With the exception of fixed rate bonds, amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers are generally repayable on demand and accrue interest at retail deposit rates.
Sainsburys Bank, via its subsidiary undertakings, has entered a 400 million asset backed commercial paper securitisation of consumer loans.
Of this facility, 300 million had been drawn as at 12 March 2016 14 March 2015: 150 million.
Interest on the notes is repayable at a floating rate linked to three-month LIBOR and their contractual repayment is determined by cash flows on the relevant personal loans included in the collateral pool.
Other deposits include 248 million 2015: 23 million of UK non-financial wholesale counterparties.
117 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Borrowings 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Group m m m m m m Loan due 2018 101 679 780 95 778 873 Loan due 2031 41 758 799 39 795 834 Bank overdrafts 3 3 9 9 Revolving credit facility due 2017 120 120 Revolving credit facility due 2018 Bank loans due 2015 86 86 Bank loans due 2016 39 39 35 35 Bank loans due 2019 199 199 200 200 Convertible bond due 2019 1 417 418 1 409 410 Finance lease obligations 38 137 175 30 169 199 Total borrowings 223 2,190 2,413 260 2,506 2,766 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Company m m m m m m Bank overdrafts Revolving credit facility due 2017 120 120 Revolving credit facility due 2018 Bank loans due 2015 86 86 Bank loans due 2016 39 39 35 35 Bank loans due 2019 199 199 200 200 Convertible bond due 2019 1 417 418 1 409 410 Total borrowings 40 616 656 87 764 851 a Loan due 2018 and Loan due 2031 Secured loans are secured on 125 2015: 125 supermarket properties note 11 and comprise loans from two finance companies, Eddystone Finance plc and Longstone Finance plc: a fixed rate amortising loan from Eddystone Finance plc with an outstanding principal value of 764 million 2015: 850 million at a weighted average rate of 4.89 per cent and carrying amount of 780 million 2015: 873 million with a final repayment date of April 2018: and an inflation linked amortising loan from Longstone Finance plc with an outstanding principal value of 779 million 2015: 811 million at a fixed real rate of 2.36 per cent where principal and interest are uplifted annually by RPI subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent with a carrying amount of 799 million 2015: 834 million with a final repayment date of April 2031.
The Group has entered into interest rate swaps to convert 206 million 2015: 211 million of the 764 million 2015: 850 million loan due 2018 from fixed to floating rates of interest.
These transactions have been accounted for as fair value hedges note 30.
In previous years, 572 million of fixed to floating rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges were fide-designated from their fair value hedging relationship.
The fair value adjustment of the debt previously hedged by these swaps will be amortised over the remaining life of the loans, resulting in an amortisation charge to the income statement in the current financial year of 1 million 2015: 1 million.
The Group has entered into inflation swaps to convert 400 million 2015: 400 million of the 779 million 2015: 811 million loan due 2031 from RPI linked interest to fixed rate interest for periods maturing April 2017 to April 2019.
These transactions have been designated as cash flow hedges note 30.
The principal activity of Eddystone Finance plc and Longstone Finance plc is the issuing of commercial mortgage backed securities and applying the proceeds towards the Secured loans due 2018 and 2031 with the Group as summarised above.
SFM Corporate Services Limited holds all the issued share capital of Eddystone Finance Holdings Limited and Longstone Finance Holdings Limited on trust for charitable purposes.
Eddystone Finance Holdings Limited beneficially owns all the issued share capital of Eddystone Finance plc and Longstone Finance Holdings Limited beneficially owns all the issued share capital of Longstone Finance plc.
As the Group has no interest, power or bears any risk over these entities they are not included in the Group consolidation.
b Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and bear interest at a spread above bank base rate.
c Revolving credit facility On 5 May 2015, the Group refinanced its unsecured 1,150 million syndicated revolving credit facility due 2019 with a new secured corporate 1,150 million syndicated revolving credit facility due 2020.
The new facility is structured on a dual tranche basis with a 500 million Facility A due May 2018 and a 650 million Facility B due May 2020.
As at 12 March 2016, nil had been drawn under the new facility 2015: 120 million drawn under the previous Revolving Credit Facility A due 2017.
The revolving credit facility incurs commitment fees at market rates and drawdowns bear interest at a spread above LIBOR.
118 Financial Statements 20 Borrowings continued d Bank loans due 2015 During March 2015, the Group repaid upon maturity a 50 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 45 million floating rate loan.
During June 2015, the Group repaid upon maturity a 50 million loan due June 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a fixed rate loan.
The 50 million loan and associated interest rate swap had been designated as a cash flow hedge.
e Bank loans due 2016 On 5 May 2015, the Group amended its 50 million unsecured bank loan due September 2016 into a secured corporate 50 million bank loan due September 2016.
This 50 million floating rate loan has been swapped into a 44 million floating rate loan.
f Bank loans due 2019 On 5 May 2015, the Group amended its 200 million unsecured bank loan due August 2019 into a secured corporate 200 million bank loan due August 2019 at floating rates of interest.
100 million of this has been swapped into fixed rate liabilities.
The 100 million portion of the loan and associated interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
g Convertible bond due 2019 In November 2014, the Group issued 450 million of unsecured convertible bonds due November 2019.
The bonds pay a coupon of 1.25 per cent payable semi-annually.
Each bond is convertible into ordinary shares of J Sainsbury plc at any time up to 21 November 2019 at a conversion price of 337 pence.
The net proceeds of the convertible bond have been split as at 12 March 2016 into a liability component of 418 million and an equity component of 32million.
The equity component represents the fair value of the embedded option to convert the bond into ordinary shares of the Company.
2016 2015 m m Liability component brought forward 410 411 Interest expense 13 5 Interest paid 6 1 Other 1 6 Liability component as at the end of the year 418 410 1.
h Finance lease obligations Present Present value of value of Minimum Minimum minimum minimum lease lease lease lease payments payments payments payments 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 46 38 38 30 In the second to fifth years inclusive 87 124 63 100 After five years 209 207 74 69 342 369 175 199 Less: future finance charges 167 170 Present value of lease obligations 175 199 Disclosed as: Current 38 30 Non-current 137 169 175 199 Finance leases have effective interest rates ranging from 4.3 per cent to 8.5 per cent 2015: 2.4 per cent to 9.0 per cent.
The average remaining lease term is 66years 2015: 67 years.
119 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Deferred tax The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the financial year, prior to the offsetting of the balances within the same tax jurisdiction, are shown below.
Accelerated Retirement capital Capital Fair value Rolled over benefit Share-based allowances losses movements capital gains obligations payments Other Total Group m m m m m m m m At 15 March 2015 162 52 29 97 57 6 42 215 Charge credit to income statement 15 5 1 8 12 2 3 24 Charge to equity or other comprehensive 24 24 income Rate change adjustment to income statement 18 6 10 10 1 4 35 Rate change adjustment to equity 3 12 9 At 12 March 2016 159 51 25 95 19 7 35 237 At 16 March 2014 176 48 34 96 58 12 39 227 Credit charge to income statement 16 4 4 1 6 4 5 Credit charge to equity or other comprehensive 9 1 8 income Rate change adjustment to income statement 2 1 1 At 14 March 2015 162 52 29 97 57 6 42 215 2016 2015 Group m m Total deferred income tax liabilities 314 330 Total deferred income tax assets 77 115 Net deferred income tax liability 237 215 Capital Rolled over losses capital gains Total Company m m m At 15 March 2015 25 25 Rate change adjustment to income statement 3 3 At 12 March 2016 22 22 At 16 March 2014 25 25 Rate change adjustment to income statement At 14 March 2015 25 25 2016 2015 Company m m Total deferred income tax liabilities 22 25 Total deferred income tax assets 22 25 Net deferred income tax asset Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all temporary differences and tax losses giving rise to deferred income tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred income tax assets and the deferred income tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
120 Financial Statements 22 Provisions Group onerous leases and Company onerous Group long Other Group Company disposal Company 1 contracts service awards provisions total onerous leases provision total m m m m m m m At 15 March 2015 88 7 26 121 3 1 4 Reclassification from accruals 68 68 Additional provisions 23 25 48 Unused amounts reversed 2 2 4 8 Utilisation of provision 18 1 40 59 2 2 Amortisation of discount 5 5 At 12 March 2016 96 4 75 175 1 1 2 At 16 March 2014 29 7 33 69 3 1 4 Additional provisions 88 1 21 110 Unused amounts reversed 3 2 5 Utilisation of provision 29 1 26 56 1 1 Amortisation of discount 3 3 1 1 At 14 March 2015 88 7 26 121 3 1 4 Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Disclosed as: Current 46 44 2 Non-current 129 77 2 2 175 121 2 4 The onerous lease provision covers residual lease commitments of up to an average of 28 years 2015: 23 years, after allowance for existing or anticipated sublet rental income.
The prior year additional provisions of 88 million includes 50 million onerous lease charge and 30 million onerous contract charge recognised as part of the prior year impairment review see note 3.
Long service awards are accrued over the period the service is provided by the employee.
Additional provisions of 25 million 2015: 21 million within other provisions include an 11 million provision for restructuring costs 2015: 14 million.
23 Called up share capital and share premium account 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group and Company million million m m Called up share capital 4 Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares 28 p 1,924 1,919 550 548 7 Share premium account Share premium 1,114 1,108 The movements in the called up share capital and share premium accounts are set out below: Share Ordinary Ordinary premium shares shares account Group and Company million m m At 15 March 2015 1,919 548 1,108 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 5 2 6 At 12 March 2016 1,924 550 1,114 At 16 March 2014 1,907 545 1,091 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 12 3 17 At 14 March 2015 1,919 548 1,108 121 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Capital redemption and other reserves Currency AvailableCash flow Convertible Total Capital translation for-sale hedge bond other redemption reserve assets reserve reserve reserves reserve Group m m m m m m At 15 March 2015 1 124 15 36 146 680 Currency translation differences 2 2 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax : Attributable to Group 2 2 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax : Attributable to Group 4 4 Attributable to joint ventures note 14 1 1 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 7 7 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 7 7 At 12 March 2016 3 126 3 29 155 680 At 16 March 2014 2 153 26 2 127 680 Currency translation differences 3 3 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax : Attributable to Group 30 30 Items reclassified from available-for-sale financial assets reserve 1 1 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax : Attributable to Group 13 13 Attributable to joint ventures note 14 3 3 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 21 21 Convertible bond equity component 39 39 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 14 March 2015 1 124 15 36 146 680 AvailableConvertible Cash flow Total Capital for-sale bond hedge other redemption assets reserve reserve reserves reserve Company m m m m m At 15 March 2015 8 36 4 40 680 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax 2 2 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax 2 2 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 2 2 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 7 7 At 12 March 2016 6 29 4 31 680 At 16 March 2014 6 2 1 7 680 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax 2 2 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax 5 5 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 2 2 Convertible bond equity component 39 39 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 14 March 2015 8 36 4 40 680 The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange differences on the translation of the net assets of the Groups foreign operations from their functional currency to the presentation currency of the parent.
The available-for-sale assets reserve represents the fair value gains and losses on the available-for-sale financial assets held by the Group.
The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative effective fair value gains and losses on cash flow hedges in the Group.
The convertible bond reserve represents the equity component of the 450 million convertible bond issued in November 2014.
The capital redemption reserve arose on the redemption of B shares.
Shareholders approved a 680 million return of share capital, by way of a B share scheme, at the Companys Extraordinary General Meeting on 12 July 2004.
The final redemption date for B shares was 18 July 2007 and all transactions relating to the B shares have now been completed.
122 Financial Statements 25 Perpetual securities Perpetual Perpetual capital convertible securities bonds Group and Company m m At 14 March 2015 Issue of 250 million 6.5% perpetual subordinated capital securities net of issue costs 247 Issue of 250 million 2.875% perpetual subordinated convertible bonds net of issue costs 247 Current tax relief on issue costs 1 1 Distributions to holders of perpetual securities 16 7 Current tax relief on distributions to holders of perpetual securities 3 1 Profit for the year attributable to holders of perpetual securities 13 6 At 12 March 2016 248 248 On 30 July 2015 the Group issued 250 million of perpetual subordinated capital securities and 250 million of perpetual subordinated convertible bonds, collectively known as perpetual securities.
Costs directly associated with the issue of 6 million have been offset against the value of the proceeds.
The securities are perpetual with no fixed redemption date.
Holders of the perpetual securities do not benefit from any put option rights, however the Group does have the right to call the perpetual subordinated capital securities at their principal amount on 30 July 2020, and the perpetual subordinated convertible bonds on 30 July 2021.
The perpetual subordinated convertible bonds may be converted into ordinary shares of the Company at the option of the holders at any time up to 23 July 2021 at a conversion price of 342.9737 pence.
The Group has the right to defer coupons on the perpetual securities on any coupon payment date where the Company has not either paid a dividend on its ordinary shares or bought back ordinary shares excluding shares bought to satisfy employee share schemes within the previous 12 month period.
The coupon rate on the perpetual subordinated capital securities increases after the fifth anniversary and for the perpetual subordinated convertible bonds after the sixth anniversary.
The next coupon date on the perpetual securities is 30 July 2016.
As the Company paid a dividend to ordinary shareholders in the 12 months prior to this date in January 2016, the periodic distributions of 16 million for the perpetual subordinated capital securities and 7 million for the perpetual subordinated convertible bonds have been recognised in the financial year.
26 Retained earnings Group Group Group Company Profit and loss Total retained Retained Own shares account earnings earnings m m m m At 15 March 2015 18 3,075 3,057 2,085 Profit for the year 452 452 1,360 Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax 85 85 Dividends paid 234 234 234 Share-based payment net of tax 23 23 Purchase of own shares 20 20 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 17 17 22 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 7 7 7 At 12 March 2016 21 3,391 3,370 3,240 At 16 March 2014 9 3,569 3,560 2,046 Loss profit for the year 166 166 344 Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax 14 14 Dividends paid 330 330 330 Share-based payment net of tax 21 21 Shares vested 9 9 Purchase of own shares 18 18 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 12 12 21 Utilised in respect of share option schemes 1 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 5 Purchase of non-controlling interest 2 2 At 14 March 2015 18 3,075 3,057 2,085 Own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trusts 4 The Group owns 7,857,148 2015: 5,960,476 of its ordinary shares of 28 pence nominal value each.
At 12 March 2016, the total nominal value of the own 7 shares was 2 million 2015: 2 million.
All shares 2015: all shares are held by an ESOP trust for the Executive Share Plans.
The ESOP trusts waive the rights to the dividends receivable in respect of the shareholder under the above schemes.
The cost of the own shares is deducted from equity in the Group financial statements.
The market value of the own shares at 12 March 2016 was 21 million 2015: 15 million.
123 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Notes to the cash flow statements a Reconciliation of operating profit loss to cash generated from operations Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Profit loss before tax 548 72 1,395 373 Net finance costs 148 161 149 123 Share of post-tax profits losses of joint ventures note 14 11 8 Dividend income from subsidiaries 5,556 252 Operating profit loss 707 81 4,310 2 Adjustments for: Depreciation expense 559 545 Amortisation expense 25 34 1 Non-cash acquisition adjustments 13 31 Impairment of subsidiaries 4,290 Sainsburys Bank impairment losses on loans and advances 15 21 Profit on disposal of properties 100 5 Release impairment of property, plant and equipment 9 540 Impairment of intangible assets 8 Foreign exchange differences 24 12 Share-based payments expense 23 21 2 Retirement benefit obligations 201 79 Provision for diminution in value of investment 23 Release of provision for diminution in value of investment 11 Write down of advances to Group companies 28 Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 1,030 1,123 20 18 Changes in working capital: Decrease in inventories 12 6 Increase decrease in investment securities 202 32 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 25 57 122 45 Increase in amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers and other deposits 318 426 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 16 294 9 519 Increase in amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and other deposits 95 114 Increase in provisions and other liabilities 48 50 Cash generated from used in operations 624 1,136 93 492 1.
Refer to note 3 for details of acquisition adjustments.
This excludes 10 million 2015: 18 million amortisation on acquired intangibles included within amortisation in this note.
The adjus tment for retirement benefit obligations reflects the difference between the defined benefit pension scheme expenses of 6 million 2015: 6 million, and the cash contributions of 207 million made by the Group to the defined benefit scheme 2015: 85 million.
b Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statements, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Cash in hand and bank balances 374 485 1 1 Money market funds and deposits 480 262 337 91 Treasury bills 20 53 Deposits at central banks 269 485 Cash and bank balances 1,143 1,285 338 92 Bank overdrafts note 20 3 9 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,140 1,276 338 92 124 Financial Statements 28 Analysis of net debt Sainsburys Adjusted Sainsburys Adjusted Group Bank Group Group Bank Group 1,2 1 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 m m m m m m Non-current assets Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 35 35 37 37 Available-for-sale investment securities 156 156 Derivative financial instruments 17 4 13 21 1 20 208 160 48 58 1 57 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,143 566 577 1,285 882 403 Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 48 48 Derivative financial instruments 51 51 69 69 1,242 614 628 1,354 882 472 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 3 3 9 9 Borrowings 182 182 221 221 Finance leases 38 38 30 30 Derivative financial instruments 43 2 41 75 1 74 266 2 264 335 1 334 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 2,053 2,053 2,337 2,337 Finance leases 137 137 169 169 Derivative financial instruments 69 21 48 38 6 32 2,259 21 2,238 2,544 6 2,538 Total net debt 1,075 751 1,826 1,467 876 2,343 1.
The Gr oups definition of net debt excludes Sainsburys Banks own net debt balances.
The perpe tual capital securities and perpetual convertible bonds are accounted for as equity in accordance with IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation and therefore are not included within net debt.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2016 2015 m m Net debt as at the beginning of the year 2,343 2,384 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 136 303 Elimination of net decrease in Sainsburys Bank cash and cash equivalents 316 343 1 Net decrease increase in borrowings 329 20 Net decrease increase of obligations under finance leases 24 11 Fair value movements 16 7 Equity component of convertible bond 39 Net debt as at the end of the year 1,826 2,343 1.
Excluding fair value and Sainsburys Bank derivative movements.
125 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial risk management The principal financial risks faced by the Group relate to liquidity risk, counterparty credit risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk and capital risk.
Financial risk management is managed by a central treasury department in accordance with policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors.
Therisk management policies are designed to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance by identifying financial exposures andsetting appropriate risk limits and controls.
Financial risk management with respect to Sainsburys Bank is separately managed by the Banks Asset and Liability Committee ALCO with significant matters reported to the Sainsburys Bank Board Risk Committee.
The risks are more fully described in the Sainsburys Bank section below.
The Group uses forward contracts to hedge foreign exchange and commodity exposures, and cross currency swap contracts and interest rate swap contracts tohedge interest rate exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups treasury policy which prohibits the use of derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group could be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The principal operational cash flow of the Group is largely stable and predictable reflecting the low business risk profile of the food retail sector.
Cash flow forecasts are produced regularly to assist management in identifying future liquidity requirements.
The Groups liquidity policy sets a minimum funding headroom of 300 million in excess of forecast net debt over a rolling 12 month time horizon.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a core oflong-dated borrowings, pre-funding future cash flow commitments and holding adequate standby credit facilities.
Short-term and seasonal funding is sourced from the Groups revolving credit facility and the wholesale inter-bank money market where interest is charged at various spreads above LIBOR.
The Group maintains a syndicated committed revolving credit facility for 1,150 million.
The 1,150 million facility is split into two tranches, a 500 million Facility A maturing in May 2018 and a 650 million Facility B maturing in May 2020.
As at 12 March 2016, nil had been drawn 2015: 120 million.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows or an estimate of cash flows in respect of floating interest rate liabilities.
Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Group m m m m At 12 March 2016 Non-derivative financial liabilities Secured loans: Loan due 2018 134 137 575 1 Loan due 2031 64 66 210 817 Unsecured loans: Bank overdraft 3 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 39 2 Bank loans due 2019 4 4 207 Convertible bond due 2019 6 6 458 2 Finance lease obligations 46 30 56 209 Trade and other payables 2,939 6 5 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 3,223 232 375 Derivative contracts net settled Commodity contracts 5 1,4 Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships 8 10 5 4 Other interest rate swaps 1 1 Derivative contracts gross settled 3 Foreign exchange forwards outflow 562 74 3 Foreign exchange forwards inflow 585 74 Commodity contracts outflow 15 15 43 37 Commodity contracts inflow 9 9 26 29 3,4 Cross currency swaps outflow 45 3,4 Cross currency swaps inflow 40 126 Financial Statements 29 Financial risk management continued Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Group m m m m At 14 March 2015 Non-derivative financial liabilities Secured loans: Loan due 2018 130 134 712 1 Loan due 2031 64 65 204 863 Unsecured loans: Bank overdraft 9 2 Revolving credit facility due 2017 1 1 120 2,3 Bank loans due 2015 86 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 36 2 Bank loans due 2019 4 4 211 Convertible bond due 2019 6 6 467 2 Finance lease obligations 39 46 88 207 Trade and other payables 2,926 9 5 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 3,763 171 101 Derivative contracts net settled Commodity contracts 8 1,4 Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships 4 3 1 4 Other interest rate swaps 1 1 Derivative contracts gross settled 3 Foreign exchange forwards outflow 367 21 3 Foreign exchange forwards inflow 382 21 Commodity contracts outflow 15 15 46 61 Commodity contracts inflow 12 13 38 60 3,4 Cross currency swaps outflow 47 45 3,4 Cross currency swaps inflow 37 36 Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Company m m m m At 12 March 2016 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 39 2 Bank loans due 2019 4 4 207 Convertible bond due 2019 6 6 458 2 Amounts owed to Group entities 126 99 592 Other payables 32 Derivative contracts net settled 1,4 Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships 2 2 1 4 Other interest rate swaps 1 1 Derivative contracts gross settled 3 Foreign exchange forwards outflow 27 3 Foreign exchange forwards inflow 27 3,4 Cross currency swaps outflow 45 3,4 Cross currency swaps inflow 40 At 14 March 2015 2 Revolving credit facility due 2017 1 1 120 2,3 Bank loan due 2015 86 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 36 2 Bank loans due 2019 4 4 211 Convertible bond due 2019 6 6 467 2 Amounts owed to Group entities 4,438 131 724 Other payables 19 Derivative contracts net settled 1,4 Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships 1 2 4 Other interest rate swaps 1 1 Derivative contracts gross settled 3 Foreign exchange forwards outflow 17 3 Foreign exchange forwards inflow 19 3,4 Cross currency swaps outflow 47 45 3,4 Cross currency swaps inflow 37 36 Assumptions: 1.
Ca sh flows relating to debt and swaps linked to inflation rates have been calculated using a RPI of 1.1 per cent for the year ended 12 March 2016, 1.3 per cent for the year ended 11 March 2017 and 3.0 per cent for future years 2015: RPI of 1.1 per cent for the year ended 14 March 2015, 1.8 per cent for the year ended 12 March 2016, and 2.6 per cent for future years.
Ca sh flows relating to debt bearing a floating interest rate have been calculated using prevailing interest rates as at 12 March 2016 and 14 March 2015.
Ca sh flows in foreign currencies have been translated using spot rates as at 12 March 2016 and 14 March 2015.
The sw ap rate that matches the remaining term of the interest rate swap as at 12 March 2016 has been used to calculate the floating rate cash flows over the life of the interest rate swaps shown above 2015: 14 March 2015.
Ca sh flows relating to amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks are calculated using contractual terms and interest rates for fixed rate instruments.
Where balances are contractually repayable on demand, behavioural assumptions are applied to estimate the interest payable on those balances.
These are shown as due within one year.
127 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial risk management continued Further information relating to liquidity risk in Sainsburys Bank is more fully described in the separate section on Sainsburys Bank financial risk factors below.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk of a financial loss arising from counterparty default or non-performance in respect of the Group holdings of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities, trade and other receivables and loans and advances to customers.
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be 5,554 million 2015: 5,124 million, equivalent to the Groups total financial assets, and of this amount 4,326 million relates to Sainsburys Bank 2015: 4,074 million.
The Group excluding Sainsburys Bank sets counterparty limits for each of its banking and investment counterparties based on their credit ratings but with minimum senior unsecured long-term credit ratings of BBB from Standard & Poors and Fitch or Baa1 from Moodys or, in the case of sterling liquidity funds, AAAm from Standard & Poors and Fitch or Aaa MR1 from Moodys.
Sainsburys Bank sets counterparty limits to ensure that the investments of the Banks treasury assets are made with counterparties with a minimum investment grade of BBBBaa 3 from Moodys.
The table below analyses the Groups cash and cash equivalents by credit exposure excluding bank balances, store cash, cash in transit and cash at ATMs: Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Counterparty Long-term rating m m m m Financial institutions money market funds AAAm Aaa 330 114 290 65 Financial institutions money market deposits AAAm Aaa 50 Financial institutions money market deposits AA Aa1 to A A2 100 148 47 25 UK Government Treasury Bills AA Aa1 to A A2 20 53 Deposits at central banks AA Aa1 269 485 Management does not expect any losses arising from non-performance of deposit counterparties.
Interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward contracts and commodity contracts are used by the Group to hedge interest rate, foreign currency and fuel exposures.
The table below analyses the fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets by credit exposure, excluding any collateral held.
Group Group Company Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Counterparty Long-term rating m m m m Interest rate swaps AA Aa1 to A A2 48 43 44 43 Interest rate swaps A A3- to BBB Baa1 21 21 FX forward contracts AA Aa1 to A A2 17 24 FX forward contracts A A3- to BBB Baa1 3 2 Further information relating to counterparty credit risk in Sainsburys Bank is more fully described in the section on Sainsburys Bank financial risk factors below.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities The following table sets out the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to counterparty offsetting or a master netting agreement.
Themaster netting agreements regulate settlement amounts in the event either party defaults on their obligations.
Amounts not offset in balance sheet Gross amounts Net amounts Balances of recognised Amounts recognised in subject to a Cash financial assets offset in the the balance contractual collateral Net and liabilities balance sheet sheet right of offset pledged amounts Group m m m m m m At 12 March 2016 Derivative financial assets 68 68 7 61 Derivative financial liabilities 112 112 7 13 92 Cash and cash equivalents 1,143 1,143 1,143 Bank overdrafts 3 3 3 Trade and other payables 1,785 114 1,671 1,671 689 114 575 13 562 At 14 March 2015 Derivative financial assets 90 90 16 10 64 Derivative financial liabilities 113 113 16 5 92 Cash and cash equivalents 1,285 1,285 8 1,277 Bank overdrafts 9 9 8 1 Trade and other payables 1,939 247 1,692 1,692 686 247 439 5 444 128 Financial Statements 29 Financial risk management continued Amounts not offset in balance sheet Gross amounts Net amounts Balances of recognised Amounts offset recognised in subject to a Cash financial assets in the balance the balance contractual collateral Net and liabilities sheet sheet right of offset pledged amounts Company m m m m m m At 12 March 2016 Derivative financial assets 54 54 54 Derivative financial liabilities 48 48 48 Cash and cash equivalents 338 338 338 344 344 344 At 14 March 2015 Derivative financial assets 77 77 10 67 Derivative financial liabilities 75 75 75 Cash and cash equivalents 92 92 92 94 94 10 84 The Group holds certain financial derivatives which are subject to credit support agreements.
Under these agreements cash collateral is posted by one party to the other party should the fair value of the financial derivative exceed a pre-agreed level.
As at 12 March 2016, the Group held no collateral against financial derivative assets 2015: 10 million.
Sainsburys Bank has derivatives that are governed by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association and their associated credit support annex bilateral agreements whereby if the fair value exceeds a pre-agreed level, cash collateral is exchanged.
As at 12 March 2016, the Bank and its subsidiary undertakings had provided collateral of 13 million 14 March 2015: 5 million against the derivatives.
The Group also operates a cash pooling arrangement and collective net overdraft facility with its main clearing bank.
As at 12 March 2016, the Group had no overdraft 2015: 8 million under this facility.
Market risk a Currency risk Currency risk is the risk of increased costs arising from unexpected movements in exchange rates impacting the Groups foreign currency denominated supplycontracts.
The Groups currency risk policy seeks to limit the impact of fluctuating exchange rates on the Groups income statement by requiring anticipated foreign currency cash flows to be hedged.
The future cash flows, which may be either contracted or un-contracted, are hedged on a layered basis from 20 per cent to80 per cent using forward contracts and options.
The Group has exposure to currency risk on balances held in foreign currency denominated bank accounts, which may arise due to short-term timing differences on maturing hedges and underlying supplier payments.
The Group considers that a ten per cent movement in exchange rates against sterling is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The impact of a ten per cent movement in the exchange rate of US dollar and euro versus sterling as at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant, is summarised in the table below: 2016 2016 2015 2015 Change in exchange Change in exchange rate Change in exchange Change in exchange rate impact on post-tax impact on cash flow rate impact on post-tax rate impact on cash flow loss -10% hedge reserve -10% profit -10% hedge reserve -10% Group m m m m USD GBP 3 4 48 59 3 4 25 31 EUR GBP 3 4 9 11 1 1 10 12 b Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk of increased costs or lower income arising from unexpected movements in interest rates and inflation rates impacting on the Groups borrowing and investment portfolios.
The Groups interest rate policy seeks to limit the impact of fluctuating interest and inflation rates by maintaining a diversified mix of fixed rate, floating rate and variable capped rate liabilities.
Interest on financial instruments is classified as fixed rate if interest re-sets on the borrowings are less frequent than once every 12 months.
Interest on financial instruments is classified as floating rate if interest re-sets on the borrowings are more frequent than once every 12 months.
Interest on financial instruments is classified as variable capped rate if interest re-sets on the borrowings are more frequent than once every 12 months and the nominal interest rate is subject to a cap.
129 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial risk management continued The mix of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date was as follows: Variable Fixed Floating capped Total Group m m m m At 12 March 2016 Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 35 35 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 2,507 837 3,344 Cash and cash equivalents 475 668 1,143 Borrowings 1,202 238 798 2,238 Finance lease obligations 114 61 175 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 410 3,345 3,755 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 2,160 2,160 Inflation linked swaps 400 400 Total 1,304 56 398 1,646 At 14 March 2015 Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 37 37 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 2,163 848 3,011 Cash and cash equivalents 656 629 1,285 Borrowings 1,291 442 834 2,567 Finance lease obligations 133 66 199 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 509 3,152 3,661 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 1,602 1,602 Inflation linked swaps 350 350 Total 1,066 544 484 2,094 Further information relating to interest rate risk in Sainsburys Bank is more fully described in the section on Sainsburys Bank financial risk factors below.
i Cash flow sensitivity for floating rate instruments The Group considers that a 100 basis point movement in interest rates is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The sensitivity of floating rate balances to a change of 100 basis points in the interest rate or such lesser amount as would result in a zero rate of interest at the balance sheet date is shown below: 2016 2015 2016 Impact on 2015 Impact on Impact on cash flow Impact on cash flow post-tax loss hedge reserve post-tax profit hedge reserve m m m m Change in floating rate -100bps 7 5 3 3 10 11 5 4 ii Cash flow sensitivity for variable capped rate liabilities The Group holds 799 million of capped inflation-linked borrowings 2015: 834 million of which 400 million 2015: 350 million have been swapped into fixed rate borrowings using inflation rate swaps maturing April 2017 to April 2018.
The Group considers that a 100 basis point movement in the RPI rate is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The sensitivity of variable capped balances to a change of 100 basis points in the RPI rate at the balance sheet date is shown below: 2016 2015 2016 Impact on 2015 Impact Impact on cash flow Impact on on cash flow post-tax loss hedge reserve post-tax profit hedge reserve m m m m Change in floating rate -100bps 3 3 6 6 4 4 10 10 130 Financial Statements 29 Financial risk management continued Commodity risk Commodity risk is the risk of increased costs arising from unexpected movements in commodity prices impacting the Groups own use consumption of electricity, gas and fuel.
The Groups Energy Price Risk Committee seeks to limit the impact by requiring forecast purchases of power and fuel to be hedged.
The Group hedges own use consumption of electricity and gas with forward purchases under flexible purchasing arrangements with its suppliers.
The Group uses financial derivatives to hedge fuel exposures on a layered basis using contracts for difference.
The Group considers a ten per cent movement in commodity prices a reasonable measure of volatility.
2016 2015 Impact on Impact on cash flow cash flow hedge reserve hedge reserve m m Change in the fair value of the power, diesel and gasoil price -10% 1 1 2 2 Capital risk management The Group defines capital as total equity plus net debt.
The Boards capital objective is to maintain a strong and efficient capital base to support the Groups strategic objectives, provide optimal returns for shareholders and safeguard the Groups status as a going concern.
There has been no change to capital risk management policies during the year.
The Board monitors a broad range of financial metrics including return on capital employed, balance sheet gearing and fixed charge cover.
The Board can manage the Groups capital structure by diversifying the debt portfolio, adjusting the size and timing of dividends paid to shareholders, recyclingcapital through sale and leaseback transactions, issuing new shares or repurchasing shares in the open market and flexing capital expenditure.
From time to time the Company purchases its own shares in the market for the purpose of issuing shares under the Groups share option programmes: howeverthe Group does not operate a defined share buy-back plan.
The Board maintains an affordable dividend policy under which dividend cover is fixed at two times underlying earnings for 2015 16.
Part of the Groups capital risk management is to ensure compliance with the general covenants included in the Groups various borrowing facilities.
There have been no breaches of general covenants in the financial year ended 12 March 2016.
There are currently no financial covenants.
Information relating to Sainsburys Bank capital risk management is detailed below.
Sainsburys Bank The principal financial risks faced by Sainsburys Bank relate to liquidity and funding risk, counterparty credit risk retail and wholesale and market risk, including interest rate risk.
Liquidity and funding risk Liquidity and funding risk is the risk that the Bank is unable to meet its financial commitments as they are expected to fall due without an adverse impact on funding costs or profitability.
The Banks liquidity risk management framework complies with the standards set out by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
The Bank has completed an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP that demonstrates that the Bank understands the liquidity risks it is running and has appropriate controls in place to mitigate them, including establishment of minimum levels of liquidity to be held.
Limits are informed by a number of stress scenarios that assess the survival period of the Bank.
In meeting internal limits as well as PRA requirements, the Bank maintains a portfolio of highly liquid assets that can be readily sold or form part of a sale or repurchase agreement to meet the Banks obligations to depositors and other creditors.
The portfolio is managed on a daily basis and within the framework as outlined in the ILAAP and by the PRA.
In addition, the Bank prepares both long-term and short-term forecasts to assess liquidity requirements.
Short-term forecasting covers a 12 month period and takes into account factors such as ATM cash management, investment maturities and customer deposit patterns and balances.
A detailed funding plan is also prepared and this provides a robust and stable funding base for the medium to long term, ensuring sufficient liquidity is in place to support the Banks business plans.
The funding plan details the Banks access to a range of funding sources, including contingent funding.
131 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial risk management continued Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk of a financial loss arising from a retail customer or wholesale counterparty default or non-performance in respect of the Banks holdings of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities, trade and other receivables and loans and advances to customers.
Credit risk in respect of retail lending customers is managed through automated credit decision techniques using both scorecards and policy rules for new applications.
In addition, behavioural scoring is used to assess the conduct of customers accounts on an ongoing basis.
Underwriting is undertaken by specialist teams in operational areas to complement these processes.
The Retail Credit Risk Committee ensures that appropriate policies are established and adhered to and this is subject to further oversight from the Board Risk Committee.
Internal Audit teams carry out regular reviews of credit risk processes, and policies are reviewed and re-approved on an annual basis.
The credit exposure relating to off balance sheet items was 317 million 2015: 319 million, being 77 million 2015: 79 million of undrawn loan commitments and 240 million 2015: 240 million of Treasury Bills obtained under the Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme FLS.
Sainsburys Bank had pledged the rights to a pool of Bank issued loans and advances to customers in exchange for FLS Treasury Bills which are accounted for off balance sheet but are available as a source of liquidity to the Bank.
Credit quality per class of financial asset Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers are summarised as follows: 2016 2015 m m Impaired 106 107 Past due but not impaired 13 16 Neither past due nor impaired 3,291 2,970 Gross 3,410 3,093 Less: allowance for impairment 79 87 Less: hedging fair value adjustment 13 5 Net book value 3,344 3,011 Unsecured Secured lending lending Total m m m 12 March 2016 Past due and impaired Less than three months, but impaired 2 2 Past due three to six months 8 8 Past due six to 12 months 1 1 Past due over 12 months Recoveries 95 95 Possession Total gross impaired loans 105 1 106 Past due but not impaired Past due less than three months but not impaired 12 1 13 Total gross past due but not impaired 12 1 13 Neither past due nor impaired Not impaired 3,251 40 3,291 Total gross neither past due nor impaired 3,251 40 3,291 Total gross amount due 3,368 42 3,410 14 March 2015 Past due and impaired Less than three months, but impaired 2 2 Past due three to six months 6 6 Past due six to 12 months Past due over 12 months 1 1 Recoveries 98 98 Possession Total gross impaired loans 106 1 107 Past due but not impaired Past due less than three months but not impaired 14 2 16 Total gross past due but not impaired 14 2 16 Neither past due nor impaired Not impaired 2,923 47 2,970 Total gross neither past due nor impaired 2,923 47 2,970 Total gross amount due 3,043 50 3,093 132 Financial Statements 29 Financial risk management continued Mortgages held over residential properties represent the only collateral held by the Bank for retail lending exposures.
The fair value of collateral held for impaired secured loans and secured loans past due but not impaired was 7 million 2015: 8 million.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that the value of the Banks assets, liabilities, income or costs will fluctuate due to changes in market rates.
The Banks market risk framework includes Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book IRRBB and Foreign Exchange Risk.
The Bank does not have a trading book.
Non-trading book positions are measured and monitored using risk measures including stress tests and sensitivity analysis, taking into account current and expected future business flows.
Foreign exchange rate risk is not material.
Interest rate risk The Bank predominantly offers lending and savings products with varying interest rate features and maturities.
Unless managed appropriately, adverse changes to interest rates could negatively impact the Banks economic value and net interest income and represent the main source of market risk in the Bank.
The main types of interest rate risk faced by the Bank are: Re-pricing risk: the risk arising from timing differences in the repricing and maturity of bank assets and liabilities e. g. fixed rate personal loans funded by instant access savings accounts.
Yield curve risk: the risk arising from changes in the slope and shape of the yield curve.
Basis risk: risk arising from imperfect correlation between key market rates e. g. administered rate on savings products and treasury assets linked to LIBOR.
Prepayment risk: the risk arising from the timing of customer prepayments which differ from planning and hedging assumptions.
Pipeline risk: the risk of a customer drawing down, or not, a product at a rate which is unfavourable for the Bank.
Volatility of earnings arising from non interest sensitive liabilities and capital.
Overall risk appetite for interest rate risk is set by the Board Risk Committee.
Lower level limits are monitored by the Asset and Liability Committee ALCO to ensure that risk is maintained within the overall interest rate risk appetite of the Bank.
Hedging strategies are implemented to ensure the Bank remains within risk limits.
Where possible, the Bank matches offsetting interest rate positions on the balance sheet to manage interest rate risk.
The Bank manages the interest rate risk net exposure by transacting interest rate swaps.
The Bank uses market recognised software QRM through a third party vendor to assist in the measurement and monitoring of interest rate risk.
Hedges are primarily transacted to manage the interest rate risk of the personal loan portfolio.
The interest rate swaps pay a fixed rate of interest to manage the re-pricing risk of the fixed rate personal loan portfolio.
The primary measures used by the Bank to capture interest rate risk include analysis of the impact of changes in interest rates on the market value of the Banks assets and liabilities and on the Banks earnings.
Sainsburys Bank capital resources The following table analyses the regulatory capital resources of Sainsburys Bank before any Group adjustments, being the regulated entity, under both transitional and end point measures of CRD IV for which there is no difference.
CRD IV regulations are being phased in over a five-year period from 2013 to 2018: 2016 2015 m m Common Equity Tier 1 CET 1 capital: Ordinary share capital 436 299 Allowable reserves 167 159 Regulatory adjustments 118 104 Total Common Equity Tier 1 CET 1 capital 485 354 Tier 1 capital 485 354 Regulatory capital is calculated under the Capital Requirements Regulations and Capital Requirements Directive collectively known as CRD IV as enacted in the UK.
Common Equity Tier 1 CET 1 capital includes ordinary share capital, other reserves, losses and regulatory deductions.
The Bank does not currently hold any Tier 2 capital.
The movement of CET 1 capital during the financial year is analysed as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 March 2015 1 March 2014 354 343 Share capital issued 137 59 1 Verified profit attributable to shareholders 6 45 Other reserve movements 2 Losses recognised 25 Increase in intangible assets 14 68 At 29 February 2016 28 February 2015 485 354 1.
It is no w standard industry practice to include annual profits in reserves for the period to which they relate, providing these have been verified prior to the date the financial statements are signed.
Losses are recognised as a deduction from CET 1 capital as they arise.
45 million included in the period to 28 February 2015 relates to Bank audited profits to December 2013 which were not recognised in regulatory reserves for the financial statements in respect of that financial year, as was standard industry practice at that time.
133 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial risk management continued Leverage ratio unaudited The leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted assets.
The denominator represents the total non-risk weighted assets adjusted for certain off balance sheet exposures, assets and regulatory deductions and provides a no-risk-weighted backstop capital measure.
The leverage ratio is planned to become a Pillar 1 measure from 1 January 2018.
The leverage ratio is calculated below as at 29 February 2016 this represents both transitional and end point CRD IV measures.
The Banks leverage ratio of 9.8 per cent exceeds the minimum Basel leverage ratio of three per cent.
2016 2015 m m Components of the leverage ratio Total assets as per published financial statements 4,499 4,237 Removal of accounting value of derivatives and securities financing transactions 1 Exposure value for derivatives and securities financing transactions 6 5 Off balance sheet exposures: unconditionally cancellable 10% 336 313 Off balance sheet: other 100% 260 318 Other adjustments 136 104 4,965 4,768 Tier 1 capital 485 354 Leverage ratio 9.8% 7.4% Capital management The Bank manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its activities.
During the period to 29 February 2016, the Bank has received planned injections of 137 million of ordinary share capital to support the forecast costs and deductible intangible assets generated through the development of flexible banking platforms.
Capital adequacy is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management, the ALCO, the Executive Risk Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The Banks submissions to the PRA in the year have shown that the Bank has complied with all externally imposed capital requirements.
The Bank will disclose Pillar 3 information as required by the Capital Requirements Regulations and PRA prudential sourcebook on the J Sainsbury plc external website in June 2016.
134 Financial Statements 30 Financial instruments The fair value of derivative financial instruments has been disclosed in the balance sheet as follows: Group Company 2016 2016 2015 2015 2016 2016 2015 2015 Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m m m m m Non-current 17 69 21 38 22 13 33 18 Current 51 43 69 75 32 35 44 57 Total 68 112 90 113 54 48 77 75 The fair value and notional amount of derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows: 2016 2015 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Group m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 18 620 22 2,291 21 733 6 1,435 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 4 100 4 150 Inflation rate swaps 10 400 14 400 Foreign exchange forward contracts 20 453 2 156 26 268 10 118 Commodity contracts 6 21 8 24 Derivatives not in a formal hedging relationship Interest rate swaps 30 386 27 327 41 391 38 331 Cross currency and foreign exchange swaps 7 71 2 17 19 89 Commodity contracts 34 15 14 15 Total 68 1,459 112 3,381 90 1,409 113 2,562 2016 2015 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Company m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 14 206 20 211 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 4 100 4 150 Derivatives not in a formal hedging relationship Interest rate swaps 30 386 27 327 41 391 38 331 Inflation rate swaps 10 400 10 400 14 400 14 400 Cross currency and foreign exchange swaps 7 71 2 17 19 89 Total 54 992 48 898 77 1,019 75 970 Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps The Group holds a 206 million portfolio of interest rate swaps 2015: 211 million to hedge a portion of fixed rate borrowings.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives fixed rate interest and pays floating rate interest.
The notional principal amount of one of the interest rate swaps amortises to 111 million by April 2018.
Sainsburys Bank and its subsidiaries hold a 2,705 million portfolio of interest rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges 2015: 1,957 million.
Interestrate swaps are transacted to hedge the Banks customer assets, fixed interest treasury instruments and non-interest bearing items including reserves through a combination of pay and receive fixed swaps 2,350 million and 355 million respectively 2015: 1,719 million and 238 million respectively.
Allderivatives are designated into effective fair value hedge accounting relationships.
For the year to 12 March 2016, the fair value movement in the Groups interest rate swaps resulted in a charge to the income statement of 6 million 2015:4million.
The fair value movement in the underlying fixed rate borrowings and Sainsburys Bank loans and advances to customers resulted in acredit to the income statement of 12 million 2015: 4 million.
135 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps The Group holds a 400 million 2015: 400 million portfolio of inflation rate swaps to hedge a portion of the inflation linked secured loan due 2031.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives annual RPI inflation subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent and pays fixed rate interest.
The Group holds a 100 million 2015: 150 million portfolio of interest rate swaps to hedge 100 million of a 200 million floating rate bank loan due 2019.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives floating rate interest and pays fixed rate interest.
As at 12 March 2016, an unrealised loss of 13 million 2015: 18 million is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the swaps in cash flow hedges.
This loss will be transferred to the income statement over the next three years.
Foreign exchange forward contracts The Group holds a portfolio of foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its future foreign currency trading liabilities.
As at 12 March 2016 the Group had forward purchased 127 million 2015: 153 million and sold sterling with maturities from March 2016 to February 2017 2015: March 2015 to January 2017 and forward purchased US$763 million 2015: US$407 million and sold sterling with maturities from March 2016 to June 2017 2015: March 2015 to June 2016.
At 12 March 2016, an unrealised profit of 16 million 2015: 12 million is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the forward contracts.
This profit will be transferred to the income statement over the next 15 months.
During the year a credit to the income statement of 12 million was transferred from the cash flow hedge equity reserve and included in cost of sales 2015: 13 million charge.
Commodity forward contracts The Group holds a portfolio of commodity forward contracts to hedge its own use fuel consumption over the next 24 months.
As at 12 March 2016, an unrealised loss of 5 million 2015: 7 million is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the commodity contracts.
Thisloss will be transferred to the income statement over the next 24 months.
Derivatives not in a hedge relationship Some of the Groups derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting and are therefore not designated in a hedging relationship.
In addition, where gains or losses on a derivative contract economically offset the losses or gains on an underlying hedged item, the derivative is not designated as in a hedging relationship.
Interest rate, cross currency and foreign exchange swaps The Group holds a 327 million 2015: 331 million portfolio of interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss to convert floating rate obligations into fixed rates.
Under the terms of the swaps the Group receives floating rate interest and pays fixed rate interest.
Offsetting these swaps the Group holds a 386 million 2015: 391 million portfolio of interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss, to convert fixed rate obligations into floating rate interest.
Under the terms of the swaps the Group receives fixed rate interest and pays floating rate interest.
The Group holds a 44 million 2015: 89 million cross currency interest rate swap at fair value through profit or loss to convert floating rate borrowings denominated in Euro into floating rate sterling borrowings.
The Group holds a 27 million 2015: 17 million foreign exchange swap to hedge a Hong Kong Dollar intercompany loan due June 2016.
Commodity forward contracts Commodity forward contracts at fair value through profit and loss relate to the Groups long-term fixed price power purchase agreements with independent producers.
Fair value Set out below is a comparison of the carrying amount and the fair value of financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements at a value otherthan fair value.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are based on prices available from the market on which the instruments are traded.
Wheremarket values are not available, the fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair values of short-term deposits, trade receivables, other receivables, overdrafts and payables are assumed to approximate totheir book values.
136 Financial Statements 30 Financial instruments continued Group Company Carrying Group Carrying Company amount Fair value amount Fair value m m m m At 12 March 2016 Financial assets Amounts owed by Group entities 2,720 2,892 1 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 3,344 3,337 Financial liabilities Amounts due to Group entities 817 871 2 Loans due 2018 780 824 Loans due 2031 799 896 Bank overdrafts 3 3 Bank loans due 2016 39 39 39 39 Bank loans due 2019 199 199 199 199 Convertible bond due 2019 418 473 418 473 Obligations under finance leases 175 175 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and other banks 3,755 3,757 At 14 March 2015 Financial assets Amounts owed by Group entities 2,758 2,950 1 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 3,011 3,024 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to Group entities 5,201 5,278 2 Loans due 2018 873 950 Loans due 2031 834 1,012 Bank overdrafts 9 9 Revolving credit facility due 2017 120 120 120 120 Bank loans due 2015 86 86 86 86 Bank loans due 2016 35 35 35 35 Bank loans due 2019 200 200 200 200 Convertible bond due 2019 410 475 410 475 Obligations under finance leases 199 199 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 3,661 3,661 1.
Included within a portfolio fair value hedging relationship with 2,705 million 2015: 1,957 million of interest rate swaps.
Includes 206 million accounted for as a fair value hedge 2015: 211 million.
The fair value of financial assets as disclosed in the table above as at 12 March 2016 was 3,337 million 2015: 3,024 million.
The fair value of the financial assets has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and is within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of financial liabilities was 6,366 million 2015: 6,747 million.
473 million 2015: 475 million has been determined using market values and is within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
The remaining 5,893 million 2015: 6,272 million has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and is within Level 2 of thefair value hierarchy.
137 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments continued Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are recognised at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted market prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date.
This level includes listed equity securities and debt instrument on public exchanges: Level 2 fair value measurements are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The fair value of financial instruments is determined by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates: and Level 3 fair value measurements are derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group m m m m At 12 March 2016 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 35 35 Other financial assets 146 146 Investment securities 203 1 204 Financial assets Derivative financial assets 68 68 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 78 34 112 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group m m m m At 14 March 2015 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 Other financial assets 145 145 Financial assets Derivative financial assets 90 90 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 99 14 113 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Company m m m m At 12 March 2016 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 35 35 Financial assets Derivative financial assets 54 54 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 48 48 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Company m m m m At 14 March 2015 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 Financial assets Derivative financial assets 77 77 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 75 75 138 Financial Statements 30 Financial instruments continued Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets and liabilities: Available-forsale financial Commodity Investment assets derivatives Securities Total 52 weeks to 12 March 2016 m m m m At 15 March 2015 145 14 131 In finance cost in the Group income statement 20 20 In other comprehensive income 1 1 2 At 12 March 2016 146 34 1 113 Available-forsale financial Commodity Investment assets derivatives Securities Total 52 weeks to 14 March 2015 m m m m At 16 March 2014 184 3 187 In finance cost in the Group income statement 17 17 In other comprehensive income 39 39 At 14 March 2015 145 14 131 The available-for-sale financial assets relate to the Groups beneficial interest in a property investment pool.
The net present value of the Groups interest in the various freehold reversions owned by the property investment pool has been derived by assuming a property growth rate of 0.6 per cent per annum 2015: 0.8 per cent and a discount rate of nine per cent 2015: nine per cent, see note 15.
The sensitivity of this balance to changes of one per cent in the assumed rate of property rental growth and one per cent in the discount rate holding other assumptions constant is shown below: 2016 2016 2015 2015 Change in Change in Change in Change in growth rate discount rate growth rate discount rate - 1.0% - 1.0% - 1.0% - 1.0% m m m m Available-for-sale assets 15 14 9 10 16 15 10 11 The Group has entered into several long-term fixed price Power Purchase agreements with independent producers.
Included within derivative financial liabilities is 34 million 2015: 14 million relating to these agreements.
The Group values its Power Purchase agreements as the net present value of the estimated future usage at the contracted fixed price less the market implied forward energy price discounted at the prevailing swap rate.
The Group also makes an assumption regarding expected energy output based on the historical performance and the producers estimate of expected electricity output.
The sensitivity of this balance to changes of 20 per cent in the assumed rate of energy output and 20 per cent in the implied forward energy prices holding other assumptions constant is shown below: 2016 2015 2016 Change in 2015 Change in Change electricity Change electricity in volume forward price in volume - forward price - 20.0% - 20.0% 20.0% - 20.0% m m m m Derivative financial instruments 7 7 13 14 3 3 17 18 The Level 3 investment securities relate to the valuation of Sainsburys Banks share of Visa Europe Limited.
The acquisition of Visa Europe Limited by Visa Inc. was announced in November 2015 and is expected to complete around the second quarter of 2016.
Under the terms of the acquisition, the Banks share of the sale proceeds will comprise upfront consideration and preferred stock in Visa Inc.
The preferred stock is convertible into Class A common stock, at a future date, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and remains subject to potential reduction for certain litigation losses incurred by Visa Europe Limited.
Sainsburys Bank may also be entitled to additional cash consideration three years after the completion of the sale.
The valuation recognised by Sainsburys Bank is equal to its expected cash proceeds as indicated by Visa Europe Limited.
No amounts have been recognised in respect of the preferred stock as a result of the uncertainties referred to above.
Similarly, no amount has been recognised in respect of the additional cash consideration payable three years post completion as a result of a lack of available information to reliably measure that amount.
139 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments continued Financial assets and liabilities by category Set out below are the accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 12 March 2016 and 14 March 2015.
Fair value Derivatives Other Loans and Availablethrough profit used for financial receivables for-sale or loss hedging liabilities Total Group m m m m m m At 12 March 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 1,143 1,143 Trade and other receivables 493 493 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 3,344 3,344 Available-for-sale financial assets 388 388 Trade and other payables 2,945 2,945 Current borrowings 223 223 Non-current borrowings 2,190 2,190 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 3,755 3,755 Derivative financial instruments 38 6 44 4,980 388 38 6 9,113 3,789 At 14 March 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 1,285 1,285 Trade and other receivables 445 445 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 3,011 3,011 Available-for-sale financial assets 184 184 Trade and other payables 2,935 2,935 Current borrowings 260 260 Non-current borrowings 2,506 2,506 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and banks 3,661 3,661 Derivative financial instruments 28 5 23 4,741 184 28 5 9,362 4,460 Fair value Derivatives Other Loans and Availablethrough profit used for financial receivables for-sale or loss hedging liabilities Total Company m m m m m m At 12 March 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 338 338 Trade and other receivables 2,720 2,720 Available-for-sale financial assets 35 35 Trade and other payables 849 849 Current borrowings 40 40 Non-current borrowings 616 616 Derivative financial instruments 4 10 6 3,058 35 4 10 1,505 1,594 At 14 March 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 92 92 Trade and other receivables 2,758 2,758 Available-for-sale financial assets 37 37 Trade and other payables 5,220 5,220 Current borrowings 87 87 Non-current borrowings 764 764 Derivative financial instruments 14 16 2 2,850 37 14 16 6,071 3,182 140 Financial Statements 31 Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations relate to a defined benefit scheme, the Sainsburys Pension Scheme the Scheme, and an unfunded pension liability relating to senior employees.
The Scheme is governed by a Trustee board, and the assets of the Scheme are held separately from the Groups assets.
The Scheme is a Registered pension plan with HMRC, subject to UK legislation with oversight from the Pensions Regulator.
The governance of the Scheme is the responsibility of the Trustee: the Trustee comprises 11 Directors five selected from members, five appointed by the Company and one Independent Chairman.
In accordance with legislation, the Trustee consults with the Company regarding the Schemes investment strategy and agrees an appropriate funding plan with the Company.
The Scheme has three different benefit categories: Final Salary, Career Average and Cash Balance.
For Final Salary and Career Average members, benefits at retirement are determined by length of service and salary.
For Cash Balance members, benefits are determined by the accrued retirement account credits.
The Scheme was closed to new employees on 31 January 2002 and closed to future benefit accrual on 28 September 2013.
The assets of the Scheme are valued at bid price and are held separately from the Groups assets.
The Scheme was subject to a triennial actuarial valuation, carried out by Willis Towers Watson for the Trustee, as at 14 March 2015 on the projected unit basis.
The results of this valuation are expected to be finalised in June 2016.
The retirement benefit obligations at the year-end have been calculated by KPMG, as actuarial advisers to the Group, using the projected unit credit method and based on adjusting the position at 17 March 2012 being the date of the previous triennial valuation for known events and changes in market conditions as allowed under IAS 19, Employee benefits.
The unfunded pension liability is unwound when each employee reaches retirement and takes their pension from the Group payroll or is crystallised in the event of an employee leaving or retiring and choosing to take the provision as a one-off cash payment.
Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership Further to the funding plan agreed with the Schemes Trustee on 17 June 2010, Sainsburys established the Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership the Partnership with the Scheme.
Under this arrangement, properties to a fair value of 256 million were transferred to the Partnership.
On 25 March 2011, further properties to a fair value of 501 million were transferred to the Partnership.
On 26 February 2016, one property with a fair value of 13 million was transferred out of the Partnership and substituted for a further four properties with a fair value of 68 million.
All transfers in were effected via a 30-year sale and leaseback arrangement.
The Schemes interest in the Partnership entitles it to an annual distribution for 20 years to 2030.
The amount of this distribution is linked to the triennial actuarial valuation and will therefore vary once every three years.
The annual distribution in 2015 16 was 29 million and for 2016 17 it is expected to be 29million before any triennial changes.
These contributions will be in addition to the Groups normal cash contribution paid to the Scheme annually.
Theproperties transferred to the Partnership will revert to Sainsburys ownership in 2030 in return for a cash payment equal to the amount of any remaining funding deficit in the Scheme at that time, up to a maximum of 600 million.
The Partnership is a structured entity, controlled by Sainsburys with its results consolidated by the Group.
The Groups balance sheet, IAS 19 deficit and income statement are unchanged by the establishment of the Partnership.
The investment held by the Scheme in the Partnership does not qualify as a plan asset for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements and is therefore not included within the fair value of plan assets.
The value of the properties transferred to the Partnership remains included within the Groups property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet.
In addition, the Group retains full operational flexibility to extend, develop and substitute the properties within the Partnership.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Present value of funded obligations 7,625 7,680 Fair value of plan assets 7,235 6,988 390 692 Present value of unfunded obligations 18 16 Retirement benefit obligations 408 708 Deferred income tax asset 19 57 Net retirement benefit obligations 389 651 The retirement benefit obligation and the associated deferred income tax balance are shown within different line items on the face of the balance sheet.
a Income statement The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Excluded from underlying profit before tax: 1 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 266 288 Interest income on plan assets 244 257 Total included in finance costs note 6 22 31 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 6 6 Total excluded from underlying profit before tax note 3 28 37 Total income statement expense 28 37 1.
Includes interest of 1 million for the unfunded pension scheme 2015: 1 million.
141 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Retirement benefit obligations continued b Other comprehensive income Remeasurement of the retirement benefit obligations has been recognised as follows: 2016 2015 m m Loss return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 16 696 Actuarial gains losses arising from changes in: 1 Financial assumptions 103 735 Experience 34 20 Total actuarial gains losses 137 715 Total remeasurements 121 19 1.
Includes 2 million loss for the unfunded pension scheme 2015: 2 million loss.
c Valuations The movements in the funded retirement benefit obligations are as follows: 2016 2015 m m As at the beginning of the year 7,680 6,855 Interest cost 266 287 Remeasurement gains losses 139 713 Benefits paid 182 175 As at the end of the year 7,625 7,680 The movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2016 2015 m m As at the beginning of the year 6,988 6,131 Interest income on plan assets 244 257 Pension scheme expenses 6 6 Remeasurement losses gains 16 696 Contributions by employer 207 85 Benefits paid 182 175 As at the end of the year 7,235 6,988 The Groups expected contributions to the defined benefit scheme for the next financial year beginning 13 March 2016 are 209 million.
The contributions in both the current and next financial year include an exceptional contribution of 125 million in each year following the issue of the perpetual securities in July 2015.
They also include the 49 million per annum agreed Recovery Plan contributions from the 2012 actuarial valuation.
IFRIC 14 and the proposed amendments have been considered and do not lead to any adjustments to the accounts on the basis that any future surplus arising can be realised upon gradual settlement of the liabilities.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2016 2015 % % Equities 26 27 Government bonds 11 14 Corporate bonds 33 34 Property 4 4 Swap contracts 10 9 Other 16 12 100 100 The fair value of plan assets split between those which have a quoted market price in an active market and those which are unquoted is as follows: 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total m m m m m m Equities 1,671 206 1,877 1,704 215 1,919 Government bonds 811 811 979 979 Corporate bonds 2,381 38 2,343 2,422 21 2,401 Property 309 309 274 7 281 Swap contracts 756 756 614 614 Other 955 184 1,139 712 82 794 5,818 1,417 7,235 6,091 897 6,988 The Pension Schemes assets are allocated across different asset classes that include investment grade corporate bonds, government bonds, public global equities, interest and inflation swap contracts, real estate, private equity partnerships and private debt.
The majority of the Schemes assets are readily marketable.
142 Financial Statements 31 Retirement benefit obligations continued d Assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2016 2015 % % Discount rate 3.65 3.50 Inflation rate RPI 3.15 3.00 Inflation rate CPI 2.15 2.00 Future salary increases n a n a Future pension increases 1.90 3.00 1.80 2.85 The discount rate is based on the yield on AA-rated sterling corporate bonds appropriate to the term of the Schemes liabilities.
The life expectancy for the Scheme operated at the balance sheet date for a pensioner at normal retirement age now 65 years for men and women, is as follows: 2016 2015 years years Male pensioner 22.7 22.7 Female pensioner 25.5 25.4 The life expectancy for the Scheme operated at the balance sheet date for a future pensioner at normal retirement age is as follows: 2016 2015 years years Male pensioner 24.6 24.5 Female pensioner 27.4 27.3 The base mortality assumptions are based on the SAPS tables, with adjustments to reflect the Schemes population, with future improvements based on the CMI 2011 projection with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25 per cent per annum.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 21 years 2015: 21 years.
e Sensitivities An increase of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 741 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 859 million.
An increase of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 506 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 486 million.
This sensitivity includes the effect of inflation on the Schemes pension increases.
An increase of one year to the life expectancy would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 243 million.
The sensitivities are based on managements best estimate of a reasonably anticipated change.
The sensitivities are calculated using the same methodology used to calculate the retirement benefit obligation, by considering the change in the retirement benefit obligation for a given change in assumption.
The net retirement benefit obligation is the difference between the retirement benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
Changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time as changes in the fair value of plan assets.
There has been no change in the calculation methodology since the prior period.
f Other disclosures The Scheme exposes the Group to actuarial risks such as longevity risk, inflation risk and interest rate risk and investment risks such as the risk of earning insufficient returns, market risk, currency risk and counterparty risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or Scheme specific risks.
The Trustees investment strategy is designed to meet its obligations and mitigate risk through diversification by asset class, by investment manager and across counterparty banks.
A framework governs the hedging of interest rate and inflation risk exposures and the hedging target for both is 60 per cent 2015: 60 per cent.
Physical assets including gilts and index linked gilts and derivative instruments including interest rate and inflation swaps are the key hedging instruments used.
The target hedge ratio and the hedging framework are kept under review by the Trustee and the Company is consulted when changes are proposed for either.
The Trustee does not currently hedge longevity risk although prudent assumptions are made regarding anticipated longevity for the purposes of the Actuarial Valuation and Recovery Plan.
Approximately 70 per cent of the Schemes non-sterling asset exposure is hedged back to sterling using forward currency contracts.
143 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Share-based payments The Group recognised 23 million 2015: 21 million of employee costs note 7 related to share-based payment transactions made during the financial year.
Of these, nil 2015: nil were cash-settled.
National insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payments transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.
At 12 March 2016, the carrying amount of national insurance contributions payable was 5 million 2015: 6 million of which nil 2015: nil was in respect of vested grants.
The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes as set out below: a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave The Group operates a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all UK employees with more than three months continuous service.
This is an approved HMRC scheme and was established in 1980.
Under Sharesave, participants remaining in the Groups employment at the end of the three-year or five-year savings period are entitled to use their savings to purchase shares in the Company at a stated exercise price.
Employees leaving for certain reasons are able to use their savings to purchase shares within six months of their leaving.
At 12 March 2016, UK employees held 19,667 five-year savings contracts 2015: 25,016 in respect of options over 22.0 million shares 2015: 22.6 million and 46,452 three-year savings contracts 2015: 39,675 in respect of options over 36.5 million shares 2015: 32.4 million.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below: 2016 2015 2016 Weighted 2015 Weighted Number average Number average of options exercise price of options exercise price million pence million pence Outstanding at the beginning of the year 55.0 254 48.3 279 Granted 20.0 195 23.5 213 Forfeited 13.0 253 9.2 288 Exercised 3.0 244 7.6 247 Expired 218 261 Outstanding at the end of the year 59.0 234 55.0 254 Exercisable at the end of the year 7.6 277 5.8 253 The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 266 pence 2015: 290 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 12 March 2016 was 2.3 years 2015: 2.4 years.
Details of options at 12 March 2016 are set out below: Options Options Exercise outstanding outstanding price 2016 2015 Date of grant Date of expiry pence million million 10 December 2009 5 year period 31 August 2015 273 2.5 10 December 2010 5 year period 31 August 2016 297 2.5 2.8 9 December 2011 3 year period 31 August 2015 238 3.5 9 December 2011 5 year period 31 August 2017 238 3.5 4.1 12 December 2012 3 year period 31 August 2016 267 5.2 6.4 12 December 2012 5 year period 31 August 2018 267 2.6 3.1 11 December 2013 3 year period 31 August 2017 332 5.2 6.7 11 December 2013 5 year period 31 August 2019 332 2.4 2.9 12 December 2014 3 year period 31 August 2018 213 12.1 15.8 12 December 2014 5 year period 31 August 2020 213 5.5 7.2 17 December 2015 3 year period 31 August 2019 195 14.1 17 December 2015 5 year period 31 August 2021 195 5.5 58.6 55.00 Options granted during the year were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2016 2015 Share price at grant date pence 243 265 Exercise price pence 195 213 Expected volatility 3 year period % 26.6 21.9 5 year period % 24.1 21.2 Option life 3 year period years 3.2 3.2 5 year period years 5.2 5.2 Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield % 5.1 5.6 Risk-free interest rate 3 year period % 1.6 1.6 5 year period % 2.1 2.1 Fair value per option 3 year period pence 48 43 5 year period pence 45 41 144 Financial Statements 32 Share-based payments continued The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three or five years, as appropriate, on the assumption that 25 per cent of options will be cancelled over the service period as employees leave the Sharesave Scheme.
b Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006, shares are conditionally awarded to the senior managers in the Company.
The core awards are calculated as a percentage of the participants salaries and scaled according to grades.
The award granted in 2013 is assessed against ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative sales measured against the IGD Index, withan Earnings Per Share gateway.
The award granted in 2014 is assessed against ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative salesmeasured against the IGD Index.
The award granted in 2015 is assessed against ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations less capital expenditure, Earnings Per Share and cost savings.
Thecore award can grow by up to four times, dependent on the level of performance.
Straight-line vesting will apply if performance falls between two points.
Awards are structured as nil cost options.
Performance will be measured at the end of the three-year performance period.
If the required level of performance has been reached, the awards vest and 50per cent of the award will be released.
Subject to participants remaining in employment for a further year, the balance will then be released one year after the vesting date.
Options granted to acquire the award of shares will expire two years from the vesting date.
Dividends will accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
To achieve the maximum multiplier of four, the following criteria are required to be met: Targets to achieve maximum multiplier Date of conditional award Cumulative underlying cash flow Return on capital employed % Relative sales Cost savings EPS 16 May 2013 6,500m 12 Index 1% p. a.
14 May 2015 5,150m 12 600m 30pence A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: 2016 2015 million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 6.1 7.0 Conditionally allocated 2.2 2.1 Forfeited 2.2 0.8 Released to participants 0.7 2.2 Outstanding at the end of the year 5.4 6.1 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 12 March 2016 was 1.7 years 2015: 1.5 years.
Details of shares conditionally allocated at 12 March 2016 are set out below: 2016 2015 Date of conditional award million million 21 June 2010 0.2 19 May 2011 0.2 0.7 17 May 2012 1.6 16 May 2013 1.4 1.6 15 May 2014 1.7 2.0 14 May 2015 2.1 5.4 6.1 Options to acquire the award of shares were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2016 2015 Share price at grant date pence 276 334 Option life years 4.2 4.2 Fair value per option pence 276 334 During the year, a total number of 1.4 million shares were exercised.
The weighted average share price during the year for options exercised was 238 pence 2015: 322 pence.
145 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Share-based payments continued c Deferred Share Award The Deferred Share Award targets a diverse range of business critical financial and strategic scorecard measures.
These are intended to reward the top 40 managers in the Company, including Executive Directors, for driving the short-term objectives that will directly lead to building the sustainable, long-term growth of the Company.
Share-based awards will be made to participants subject to performance against a basket of measures.
At least 50 per cent of the award will be based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders.
The balance will be based on measures which will assess the Companys performance relative to its competitors as well as key strategic goals.
Performance against the target is measured over one financial year, but any shares awarded are deferred for a further two years to ensure that managements interests continue to be aligned with those of shareholders.
The shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Dividends accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below: 2016 2015 million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2.5 2.6 Granted 1.2 1.5 Lapsed 0.3 Exercised 1.2 1.6 Outstanding at the end of the year 2.2 2.5 The number of shares allocated at the end of the year is set out below: 2016 2015 million million 16 May 2013 0.1 1.2 15 May 2014 1.2 1.3 14 May 2015 0.9 2.2 2.5 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 12 March 2016 was 1.4 years 2015: 1.5 years.
d Bonus Share Award The bonus arrangements for our senior managers and supermarket store managers include corporate and personal performance targets.
A profit gateway is in place which means that a certain level of underlying profit before tax must be achieved before any bonus related to the corporate element of the bonus is released.
60 per cent of the bonus is paid in cash and 40 per cent converted into shares, which are automatically released after three financial years.
The share element of the bonus arrangement is called the Bonus Share Award.
Bonus Shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Dividends accrue on these shares and are released at the end of the three-year retention period.
Our top 40 managers do not receive Bonus Share Awards as they receive Deferred Share Awards.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below: 2016 2015 million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 10.2 7.5 Granted 3.7 3.9 Exercised 4.0 Lapsed 1.0 1.2 Outstanding at the end of the year 8.9 10.2 The number of shares allocated at the end of the year is set out below: 2016 2015 million million 17 May 2012 3.0 16 May 2013 3.1 3.7 15 May 2014 3.0 3.5 14 May 2015 2.8 8.9 10.2 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 12 March 2016 was 1.1 years 2015: 1.2 years.
146 Financial Statements 33 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, depots and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2016 2015 m m Aggregate future minimum lease payments: Within one year 614 585 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,245 2,171 After five years 7,209 7,040 10,068 9,796 Further analysis of the Groups future minimum lease payments after five years is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Aggregate future minimum lease payments: Greater than five years but less than ten years 1,866 1,897 Greater than ten years but less than 15 years 1,281 1,319 After 15 years 4,062 3,824 7,209 7,040 The commercial terms of the Groups operating leases vary, however they commonly include either a market rent review or an index linked rent review with a cap and collar.
The timing of when rent reviews take place differs for each lease.
The Group has pre-emption rights over a minor number of properties, which provides the Group with the right of first refusal to purchase the property in the event the landlord chooses to sell.
The option price payable for the asset in each instance is normally referenced to current market value prevailing at the point of pre-emption.
For the purposes of calculating adjusted net debt, the total value of the Groups capitalised operating lease commitments is 5,500 million 2015: 5,417 million.
The Group sublets certain leased properties: 2016 2015 m m Aggregate future minimum lease receipts: Within one year 35 34 In the second to fifth years inclusive 119 120 After five years 124 123 278 277 34 Capital commitments The Group has entered into contracts totalling 173 million 2015: 164 million for future capital expenditure in relation to property, plant and equipment and 6 million 2015: 13 million for intangible assets not provided for in the financial statements.
The Company does not have any capital commitments 2015: nil.
35 Financial commitments Sainsburys Bank has off balance sheet financial instruments committing it to extend credit to customers of 77 million 2015: 79 million.
36 Contingent liabilities The Group has a contingent liability for indemnities arising from the disposal of subsidiaries.
No provision has been recognised on the basis that any potential liability arising is not considered probable.
It is not possible to quantify the impact of this liability with any certainty.
Along with other retailers, the Group is subject to claims in respect of pay rates across supermarket and distribution centre workers.
There is also a potential obligation in respect of holiday pay on voluntary overtime.
The Company is keeping these matters under close review but considers the likelihood of payout to be remote.
The Company has no contingent liabilities and has issued no guarantees under Companies Act 2006 Section 394A or 479C.
147 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 37 Related party transactions Group a Key management personnel The key management personnel of the Group comprise members of the J Sainsbury plc Board of Directors and the Operating Board.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 7 10 Post-employment employee benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 4 9 12 20 Ten key management personnel had credit card balances with Sainsburys Bank 2015: nine.
These arose in the normal course of business and wereimmaterial to the Group and the individuals.
Five key management personnel held saving deposit accounts with Sainsburys Bank 2015: three.
Thesebalances arose in the normal course of business and were immaterial to the Group and the individuals.
b Joint ventures and associates Transactions with joint ventures and associates For the 52 weeks to 12 March 2016, the Group entered into various transactions with joint ventures and associates as set out below.
2016 2015 m m Management services received 1 1 Management services provided 4 Income share received from joint ventures 33 17 Dividend and distributions received 46 70 Proceeds from repayment of loan to joint venture 17 Investment in joint ventures and associates 18 12 Rental expenses paid 65 65 Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates 2016 2015 m m Receivables Other receivables 28 37 Loans due from joint ventures 3 2 Payables Other payables 1 Loans due to joint ventures 5 5 c Retirement benefit obligations As discussed in note 31, the Group has entered into an arrangement with the Pension Scheme Trustee as part of the funding plan for the actuarial deficit in the Scheme.
Full details of this arrangement are set out in note 31 to these financial statements.
148 Financial Statements 37 Related party transactions continued Company a Subsidiaries The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries at both fixed and floating rates of interest on a commercial basis.
Hence, the Company incurs interest expense and earns interest income on these loans and advances.
The Company also received dividend income from its subsidiaries during the financial year.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and settled in cash.
Transactions with subsidiaries 2016 2015 m m 1 Repayment of floating rate subordinated dated undated loan capital from Sainsburys Bank 60 Investment in Sainsburys Bank 137 59 Loans and advances given to, and dividend income received from subsidiaries Loans and advances given 17 229 Loans and advances repaid by subsidiaries 122 45 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 222 201 Dividend income received 5,556 252 Loans and advances received from subsidiaries Loans and advances received 299 275 Loans and advances repaid 49 21 Loan settlement in the year attributable to liquidations 4,306 Interest expense paid in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 47 56 1.
The 60 million dated subordinated loan capital was repaid in December 2014.
Year-end balances arising from transactions with subsidiaries 2016 2015 m m Receivables Loans and advances due from subsidiaries 2,720 2,758 Payables Loans and advances due to subsidiaries 817 5,201 b Joint ventures and associates Transactions with joint ventures and associates For the 52 weeks to 12 March 2016, the Company entered into transactions with joint ventures and associates as set out below.
2016 2015 m m Investment in joint ventures 15 12 Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates 2016 2015 m m Payables Loans due to joint ventures 5 5 149 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 38 Details of related undertakings Country of Entity incorporation Interest Holding All companies listed below are owned by the Group and all interests are in the Mobile by Sainsburys Limited UK 50% Indirect ordinary share capital, except where otherwise indicated.
All subsidiaries have Netto Limited UK 50% Direct been consolidated.
PXS Limited UK B class Indirect Romford Developments Limited UK 50% Indirect a Subsidiary undertakings Sainsburys Property Scottish Limited UK 10% Indirect Partnership The Group holds a majority of the voting rights of the following undertakings: Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership UK 33% Indirect Tamar Energy Limited UK 2,000,000 Indirect Country of Investor shares The Harvest Limited Partnership UK 49.975% Indirect Entity incorporation Interest Holding Barleygold Limited UK 100% Indirect Bells Stores Limited UK 100% Direct c Trusts BLSSP PHC 7 Limited UK 100% Indirect The Group has an interest in the following undertakings.
Braemar Castle Limited UK 100% Direct Coolidge Investments Limited UK 100% Indirect Country of Flint Castle Limited UK 100% Direct Entity incorporation Interest Holding Global Media Vault Limited UK 100% Indirect Holborn UK Investments Limited UK 100% Direct J Sainsbury Employee Share Ownership Trust UK 100% Indirect J Sainsbury Overseas Limited UK 100% Direct J Sainsbury Common Investment Fund Limited UK 100% Indirect d Undertakings other than subsidiaries and associated J Sainsbury Distribution Limited UK 100% Direct J Sainsbury Employee Share Ownership Trust UK 100% Indirect undertakings J Sainsbury Limited Ireland 100% Direct The direct or indirect holder of 100% of the voting interests in the following J Sainsbury Pension Scheme Trustees Limited UK 100% Direct undertakings is an associate of the Group.
J Sainsbury Holdings Ireland 100% Indirect J Sainsbury Trustees Limited UK 100% Indirect Country of Jacksons Stores 2002 Limited UK 100% Indirect Entity incorporation Interest Holding Jacksons Stores Limited UK 100% Direct JS Finance Corporation Ireland 100% Indirect B. L. C. T. 10775 Limited Jersey 100% Indirect JS Information Systems Limited UK 100% Indirect B. L. C. T. 11546 Limited Jersey 100% Indirect JS Insurance Limited Isle of Man 100% Direct B. L. C. T. 20720 Limited Jersey 100% Indirect JSD London Limited UK 100% Indirect B. L. C. T. 27255 Limited Jersey 100% Indirect L&B No 26 Limited UK 100% Indirect B. L. C. T. 38775 Limited Jersey 100% Indirect Lochside Asset Purchaser No.
1 plc UK 100% Indirect B. L. C. T. 39150 Limited Jersey 100% Indirect Lochside Asset Purchaser No1 Holdings Limited UK 100% Indirect B. L. C. T. 39214 Limited Jersey 100% Indirect Nash Court Kenton Limited UK 100% Indirect B. L. C. T. 39215 Limited Jersey 100% Indirect Portfolio Investments Ltd UK 100% Indirect BL Crawley Unlimited Jersey 100% Indirect Ramheath Properties Limited UK 100% Direct BL Non Securitised 2012 1 Limited UK 100% Indirect RECO Property Limited UK 100% Indirect BL Superstores Funding Limited UK 100% Indirect S. W. Dewsbury Limited UK 100% Direct BL Superstores Finance PLC UK 100% Indirect Sainsbury Bridgeco Holdco Limited UK 100% Direct BLS Non-Securitised 2012 2 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsbury Holdco A Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP Cash Management Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsbury Holdco B Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP Lending Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsbury Propco A Limited UK 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 1 2010 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsbury Propco B Limited UK 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 1 2012 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsbury Propco C Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 1 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsbury Propco D Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 10 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsbury Property Investments Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 11 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Commercial Consulting Dongguan China 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 12 Limited UK 100% Indirect CompanyLtd BLSSP PHC 14 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Asia Shanghai Limited Hong Kong 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 16 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Asia Limited Hong Kong 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 17 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Bank plc UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 18 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Basingstoke Limited UK 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 2 2010 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Convenience Stores Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 2 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Corporate Director Limited UK 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 20 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Entertainment Ltd UK 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 21 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Holborn Property UK 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 22 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 23 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 24 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Manor GP Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 25 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Manor II Property Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 26 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Manor Property Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 28 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Planet Limited UK 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 3 Limited UK 100% Indirect Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 32 Limited UK 100% Indirect Savacentre Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 33 Limited UK 100% Indirect Stamford House Jersey Limited Jersey 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 34 Limited UK 100% Indirect Stamford House Investments Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 35 Limited UK 100% Indirect Stamford Properties Dorking Limited UK 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 4 Limited UK 100% Indirect Stamford Properties Four Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 5 Limited UK 100% Indirect Stamford Properties One Limited UK 100% Indirect BLSSP PHC 6 Limited UK 100% Indirect Stamford Properties Three Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC 9 Limited UK 100% Indirect Stamford Properties Two Limited UK 100% Direct BLSSP PHC19 Limited UK 100% Indirect Stockdale Land Bicester Limited UK 100% Indirect BLSSP Property Holdings Limited UK 100% Indirect Tintagel Castle Limited UK 100% Direct British Land Superstores Non-Securitised Limited UK 100% Indirect Town Centre Retail Bicester Limited UK 100% Indirect Clarendon Property Company Unlimited UK 100% Indirect Harvest 2 Selly Oak Limited UK 100% Indirect Harvest Nominee No.
1 Limited UK 100% Indirect b Associated undertakings Harvest Nominee No.
2 Limited UK 100% Indirect The Group has a participating interest in the following undertakings.
Pencilscreen Limited UK 100% Indirect Selected Land and Property Company Unlimited UK 100% Indirect Country of Ten Fleet Place Unlimited UK 100% Indirect Entity incorporation Interest Holding Vyson Unlimited UK 100% Indirect Arcus Engineering Limited UK Preference shares Indirect Arcus FM Limited UK Preference shares Indirect e Overseas branches BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited UK 50% Indirect The Group has the following branches overseas.
Harvest 2 GP Limited UK 50% Indirect Harvest 2 Limited Partnership UK 49.975% Indirect Entity Country Holding Harvest Development Management Limited UK 50% Indirect Harvest GP Limited UK 50% Indirect Sainsburys Asia Limited Bangladesh Liaison Office Bangladesh Indirect Hedge End Park Limited UK 50% Direct Sainsburys Commercial Consulting Dongguan CompanyLtd China Indirect Insight 2 Communication LLP UK 50% Indirect Branch Office 1 Manor II Property Scottish Partnership UK 0.01% Indirect Sainsburys Asia Limited India Branch Office India Indirect Manor Property Scottish Partnership UK 0.01% Indirect Manor Scottish Limited Partnership UK 0.01% Indirect 150
