Governance Report Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
attention of the Board during the year into account, we are satisfied that the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each and understandable.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial The Board believes that the disclosures set out in this Annual Report provide Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless performance, business model and strategy.
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 48 to 49, state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance in the financial statements: and with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue the Strategic Report and Directors Report contained in the Annual Report in business.
and financial statements include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial By order of the Board position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 Tim Fallowfield of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 3 May 2016 prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
