Additional shareholder information Additional shareholder information Shareholders can receive email notification of results and press Financial calendar 2016 17 announcements as they are released by registering on the page Final dividend called Email news service in the Investor section of the website.
Ex-dividend date 12 May 2016 Record date 13 May 2016 Electronic shareholder communications Last date for return of revocation of DRIP mandates 17 June 2016 The Company encourages all shareholders to receive their shareholder Payment date and DRIP share purchase 8 July 2016 communications electronically in order to reduce our impact on the Other dates environment.
Shareholders can register their email address at www.
com jsainsbury and for each new shareholder that does so we Annual General Meeting London 6 July 2016 Interim results announced 9 November 2016 will make a donation to the Tree for All campaign run by the Preliminary Results announced 3 May 2017 Woodland Trust.
By registering with the eTree programme you will be Annual General Meeting London 5 July 2017 giving the Company permission to send all shareholder documents to you via email with a link to a secure website.
The interim dividend was paid on 4 January 2016.
Alternatively, the Company has set up a facility for shareholders to take Annual General Meeting AGM advantage of electronic communications.
The service allows you to: The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday, 6 July 2016 at QEII view the Annual Report and Financial Statements on the day it is Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice published: of the Meeting and the proxy card for the meeting are enclosed with receive electronic notification of the availability of future this report.
shareholder information you must register your email for this service : Registrars check the balance and current value of your shareholding and For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and to view your dividend history: and report changes to personal details, shareholders should contact: submit your vote online prior to a general meeting.
Computershare Investor Services PLC For more information, to view the terms and conditions, and to register The Pavilions for the service, log on to www.
co. uk investor-centre, click Bridgwater Road on Shareholder Centre and then follow the instructions on screen.
Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 0370 702 0106 Alternatively, register by visiting www.
For all methods, you will require your 11 character Shareholder Reference Please remember to tell Computershare if you move house or change Number which can be found on your share certificate or latest dividend bank details or if there is any other change to your account confirmation.
Shareholder security You can view and manage your shareholding online at www.
You will require your 11 character Shareholder Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, Reference Number SRN to log in.
Your SRN starts with the letter C offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company annual or G and is followed by ten numbers.
It can be found on share reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: certificates and dividend confirmations formerly dividend tax make sure you get the name of the person and organisation: vouchers.
check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk firms systems-reporting Dividends register: and Having your dividends paid directly into your bank or building report the matter to the FCA either by calling 0800 111 6768 or by society account is a more secure way than receiving your dividend by completing an online form at www.
If you would prefer your dividends to be paid directly into report-scam your bank or building society account further information is available from Computershare Investor Services address and telephone Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will number above.
You will still receive a dividend confirmation be included in Company mailings.
formerly a dividend tax voucher detailing each dividend to enable you to complete your tax return to HMRC.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FCA website www.
uk consumers scams Shareholder communications Company website Investor relations J Sainsbury plc Interim and Annual Reports, and results For investor enquiries please contact: Duncan Cooper, Head of announcements are available via the internet on our website at Investor Relations, J Sainsbury plc, Store Support Centre, 33 Holborn, www.
As well as providing share price data and London EC1N 2HT.
financial history, the site also provides background information about the Company, regulatory and news releases, and current issues.
Alternatively, you may consider using: information contact: The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB.
Telephone: 01296 414141 or The Share Centre Ltd who offer a postal dealing service and they freephone 08000 282812 and quote Sainsburys.
can be contacted at The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB.
Telephone: 01296 414141 American Depository Receipts ADRs or Freephone 08000 282812 and quote Sainsburys: or The Company has a sponsored Level I ADR programme for which Computershare who offer a telephone and internet facility which TheBank of New York Mellon acts as depositary.
gives shareholders the opportunity to trade at a known price.
The telephone service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday to The ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter OTC market in the US Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 0370 703 under the symbol JSAIY, where one ADR is equal to four ordinary 0084.
The internet share dealing service gives shareholders the shares.
All enquiries relating to ADRs should be addressed to: option to submit instructions to trade online and more information can be found by visiting www.
Shareowner Services PO Box 30170 Further information and detailed terms and conditions are available College Station on request by calling either provider.
TX 77842-3170 Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Toll Free Telephone # for domestic callers: 1-888-269-2377 The Company has a DRIP, which allows shareholders to reinvest their International callers can call: 1-201-680-6825 cash dividends in the Companys shares bought in the market Website: www.
com through a specially arranged share dealing service.
No new shares are Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com allotted under this DRIP and approximately 29,210 shareholders participate in it.
Full details of the DRIP and its charges, together with ShareGift mandate forms, are available from the Registrars.
Alternatively, you If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more for can elect to join the DRIP by registering for Investor Centre at you to sell than they are worth, you may wish to consider donating www.
them to the charity ShareGift Registered Charity 1052686 which specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
The relevant stock transfer form may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC.
There are no implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained on 020 7930 3737 or from www.
153 Additional shareholder information Continued Consolidated Dividend Confirmations Registered office and advisers The Company has adopted the Consolidated Dividend Confirmation Registered office CDC process in relation to dividend payments.
This means that J Sainsbury plc those shareholders receiving their dividend direct into their bank 33 Holborn account will receive a CDC once a year detailing all payments made London EC1N 2HT throughout that year.
Registered number 185647 Auditors Tax information Capital Gains Tax CGT Ernst & Young LLP For CGT purposes, the market value of ordinary shares on 31 March 1 More London Place 1982 adjusted for all capital adjustments was 91.99 pence and B London SE1 2AF shares 10.941 pence.
Solicitors Share capital consolidation Linklaters LLP The original base cost of shares apportioned between ordinary shares One Silk Street 4 of 28 7 pence and B shares is made by reference to the market value London EC2Y 8HQ of each class of shares on the first day for which a market value is quoted after the new holding came into existence.
The market value Stockbrokers for CGT purposes of any share or security quoted on the Stock UBS Exchange Daily Official List is generally the lower of the two quotations 1 Finsbury Avenue on any day plus one quarter of the difference between the values.
London EC2M 2PP On Monday, 19 July 2004 the values were determined as follows: Morgan Stanley 25 Cabot Square New ordinary shares 257.5 pence Canary Wharf B shares 35 pence London E14 4QA General contact details Share price information is available on the Companys website, in the financial press and the Cityline service operated by the Financial Times Telephone: 0906 003 3904.
Cautionary statement Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forward For general enquiries about Sainsburys Finance call: 0500 405 060. looking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from For any customer enquiries please contact our Customer Careline by those expressed or implied because they relate to future events.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the Companys expectations.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of relevant terminology including the words: believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our officers, Directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
