Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director 1 5 Tim joined Sainsburys in 2001 as Company Secretary and joined the Operating Board in 2004.
In addition to his role as Company Secretary, Tim is responsible for the Corporate Services Division comprising Legal Services, Safety, Shareholder Services, Insurance, Data Governance and Central Security.
He chairs the Group Safety Committee and the Data Governance Committee.
Tim joined Sainsburys from Exel plc, the global logistics company, where he was Company Secretary and Head of Legal Services 1994-2001.
He began his career at the international law firm Clifford Chance and is a qualified solicitor.
Jon Hartland Chief Executive Officer Acting Retail and Operations Director See page 48 Jon joined Sainsburys in 1986 and held the position of Store Director for numerous stores until 1996.
He then held a number of senior roles before 3 becoming the Change Director in 2002 and later becoming the Central Retail Director.
Jon was appointed Director for Non Food Operations in 2011 and has been acting Retail and Operations Director since October 2015.
He sits on the GS1 apparel Europe board and was previously a Regional manager for Fine Fare part of Associated British Foods plc.
Peter Griffiths 6 Chief Executive Officer, Sainsburys Bank Peter was appointed Chief Executive Officer, 2 Sainsburys Bank plc in November 2012 and joined the Operating Board in May 2014.
Prior to joining Sainsburys he was Group Chief Executive of Principality, the largest building society in Wales, growing it from the 13th largest building society in the UK to the 7th, during his decade in charge.
He previously worked for NatWest 1977-2000, and was Chief Operating Officer at Morgan Chambers Plc.
He is former Chairman of the CBI Wales and the Building Societies Association, and is a Fellow of UWIC and The Chartered Institute of 6.
Peter was awarded an OBE in the Food Commercial Director 2.
John Rogers Queens Birthday Honours 2010, in recognition of Paul joined the Operating Board in May 2014 as his support for the Financial Services Industry.
Chief Financial Officer Food Commercial Director having spent more than See page 48 ten years at Sainsburys.
He was closely involved in the formation and execution of the Making Sainsburys Great Again strategy in a variety of roles in commercial, strategy and finance, most 4 recently as Business Unit Director for Grocery.
Previously Paul was European Controller at Marks and Spencer Group plc and a Director at UBS Warburg.
Paul is a qualified electronic engineer and a Chartered Accountant.
Angie Risley Group HR Director Angie was appointed Group HR Director and a 9 member of the Operating Board in January 2013 with responsibility for human resources.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Serco Group plc and chairs their Remuneration Committee.
She is also a Director of Sainsburys Bank plc.
Angie was most recently Group HR Director at Lloyds Banking Group and prior to this an Executive Director of Whitbread plc with responsibility for HR and Corporate Social Responsibility.
She was a member of the Low Pay Commission.
Sarah Warby Marketing Director 7 Sarah joined Sainsburys and the Operating Board in January 2012 as Marketing Director.
She has responsibility for all Sainsburys marketing activity: all-brand communications, in-store, loyalty and customer insight.
She also has responsibility for Customer Service and Experience.
Sarah previously held a number of senior positions at Heineken and was their UK Marketing Director where she was responsible for a number of the UKs most high-profile FMCG brands.
Prior to this, she was Innovation Director at Heineken where she led the combined technical and marketing team.
Earlier in her career, Sarah worked for several marketing agencies and was a 8.
Jon Rudoe graduate employee at Unilever PLC.
Digital and Technology Director Jon joined the Operating Board in March 2014 with responsibility for Digital and the IT function.
He joined Sainsburys in July 2011 as Director of Online and in March 2013 he took on responsibility for Digital.
Jon joined Sainsburys from Ocado where he led marketing, user experience, trading, own-brand and supply chain.
Previously, Jon was a management consultant at Bain & Company and worked in venture capital.
