OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 31 December 2016 of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability BASIS OF PREPARATION is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a Compliance with IFRS charge to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared is accounted for within equity.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noninterpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Companies reporting under IFRSs.
of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of The financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the International the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the total Accounting Standards Board IASB.
of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net Historical cost convention assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, except transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between for the following: Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies the available-for-sale financial assets, financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value: adopted by the Group.
and Transactions with non-controlling interests defined benefit pension plans where plan assets are measured Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss at fair value.
of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary INTERPRETATIONS EFFECTIVE IN 2016 is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective for the interests are also recorded in equity.
first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2016 Disposal of subsidiaries have had a material impact on the Group.
When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of Subsidiaries subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised the Group has control.
in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control Associates is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition for using the equity method of accounting.
of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination of acquisition.
are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling on acquisition.
interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or If a business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the loss where appropriate.
Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its GOODWILL ARISING ON CONSOLIDATION interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates of subsidiaries is shown separately on the Balance Sheet.
Goodwill on are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides Goodwill is not amortised but it is tested for impairment annually or more evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be of the associates have been modified where necessary to ensure impaired, and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units, or groups of cash generating units, for the purpose of SEGMENT REPORTING impairment testing.
Cash generating units represent the lowest level of Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the geographical and business segment combinations that the Group uses internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief for internal reporting purposes.
operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Chief Executive Officer.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer software FOREIGN CURRENCIES Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire them and bring them to use.
These costs Functional and presentation currency are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment expense as incurred.
in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Development costs that are directly associated with the production of The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and which is the Groups functional and presentational currency.
that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software Transactions and balances development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency overheads.
Capitalised development costs are amortised over their using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
estimated useful lives from the point when the asset is ready to use.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of The rates of amortisation are between 14% and 100% per annum.
such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Capitalised employment contract payments recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity The Group makes payments to certain key employees in recognition of as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
them signing a long-term employment contact, usually three to five years.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held These payments are capitalised as intangible assets since legal rights at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain protect the expected benefits that the Group will derive from the contracts.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in other The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of the underlying comprehensive income.
contract within salaries and associated expenses.
Group companies Other The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which For acquisitions completed after 1 January 2004, the business acquired has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional is reviewed to identify assets that meet the definition of an intangible currency different from the presentational currency are translated into asset per IAS 38.
Examples of such assets include customer contracts, the presentational currency as follows: expectations of business renewal and contract related customer relationships.
These assets are valued on the basis of the present value 1. assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated of future cash flows and are amortised to the income statement over at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: the life of the contract or their estimated economic life.
2. income and expenses for each income statement are translated The current maximum estimated economic life is fifteen years.
at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and Goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are 3. all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
On consolidation exchange differences that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever arising from the translation of net investment in foreign entities, and events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income.
When by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated cash flows cash-generating units.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
114 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Offsetting financial instruments PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported Assets are stated at their net book amount historical cost less in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, The principal rates of depreciation are as follows: insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
Freehold land and buildings between 0% and 2% per annum.
INSURANCE BROKING RECEIVABLES Leasehold improvements between 10% and 20% per annum or over the life of the lease.
AND PAYABLES Furniture and office equipment between 10% and 20% per annum.
Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of their Computer hardware between 20% and 100% per annum.
clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals for amounts arising from such transactions.
In recognition of this relationship, debtors Motor vehicles between 25% and 33.33% per annum.
from insurance broking transactions are not included as an asset of the The depreciation rates are reviewed on an annual basis.
Other than the receivable for fees and commissions earned on a transaction, no recognition of the insurance transaction occurs until the Group receives cash in respect of premiums or claims, at which time a FINANCIAL ASSETS corresponding liability is established in favour of the insurer or the client.
The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables and In certain circumstances, the Group advances premiums, refunds available-for-sale assets.
The classification depends upon the purpose or claims to insurance underwriters or clients prior to collection.
for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines These advances are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
as part of trade receivables.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or TRADE RECEIVABLES determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently after the balance sheet date.
at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts receivables are carried at amortised cost.
due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, dispute, default or delinquency in payments are Available-for-sale financial assets considered indicators that the receivable is impaired.
Available-for-sale financial assets are categorised into one of two The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an categories: allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the 1.
Investments and deposits consist mainly of fixed term deposits, income statement.
bonds and certificates of deposit.
These investments are held at When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the fair value and are classified between current and non-current assets allowance account for trade receivables.
according to the maturity date.
Other investments include securities and other investments held for strategic purposes and some debt instruments.
These CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS investments are held at fair value unless a fair value cannot be Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at accurately determined in which case they are held at cost less call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original any provision for impairment.
maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Whilst held in the Groups non-statutory trust accounts under appropriate Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the client money regulation, fiduciary funds held are controlled by the Group trade date - the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell and economic benefits are derived from them.
As such these funds are the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
TRADE PAYABLES Available-for-sale assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost except for deferred and contingent The fair values of quoted investments are determined based upon consideration which is always measured at fair value based on the current bid price.
underlying criteria of each transaction.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement.
BORROWINGS Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using the effective Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an interest method is recognised in the income statement as part of finance unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months income.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised after the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair in the income statement as part of finance income when the Groups right value, net of transaction costs incurred.
They are subsequently stated to receive payments is established.
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Share-based compensation DEFERRED INCOME TAX The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received rates of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates nor taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred income tax of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital at nominal value and share premium excess Deferred income tax is charged or credited to equity in respect of over nominal value when the options are exercised.
any items, which is itself either charged or credited directly to equity.
Any subsequent recognition of the deferred gain or loss in the consolidated income statement is accompanied by the corresponding PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES deferred income tax.
A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation differences can be utilised.
and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Where appropriate the Group discounts provisions to their present value.
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group The unwinding of the provision discounting is included as an interest controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it expense within finance costs in the income statement.
is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
REVENUE Fees and commissions EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Fees and commissions are derived from three principal sources: Pension obligations Insurance broking The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, Income relating to insurance broking is accounted for at the later of policy and a number of employees are members of defined contribution inception date or when the policy placement has been completed and pension schemes.
Full actuarial valuations of the Groups defined benefit schemes Where there is an expectation of future servicing requirements an element a re carried out at least every three years.
of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the associated A qualified actuary updates these valuations to 31 December each year.
For the purposes of these annual updates, scheme assets are included Employee benefits at market value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method: these liabilities are discounted at Income relating to employee benefit services includes fees and the current rate of return of a high quality corporate bond of equivalent commissions.
Fees are charged on a time-cost or fixed-fee basis and currency and term.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is calculated are recognised in line with the performance of the underlying service.
as the present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of Commission is recognised upon confirmation of the underlying policy the plan assets and is included on the Groups balance sheet.
are included only to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced Other services contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The net Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period to interest on the defined benefit surplus deficit is included within finance which they relate and when they can be measured with reasonable costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, including differences between the certainty.
expected and actual return on scheme assets, are recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Investment income A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group Investment income arises from the holding of cash and investments pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal relating to fiduciary funds and is recognised on an accruals basis.
or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are Exceptional items are separately identified to provide greater charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items classified as exceptional items may include, but are not limited to: gains or losses arising from the sale of businesses and investments: closure costs for businesses: restructuring costs: professional fees in respect of acquisitions: post acquisition integration costs: post acquisition and disposal adjustments to balance sheet items: and other credits and charges of a non-recurring nature that require inclusion in order to provide 116 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED additional insight into the underlying business performance.
Items of a DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION non-recurring and material nature are charged or credited to operating Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date are not profit and are classified to the appropriate income statement headings.
recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final dividends are To assist in the analysis and understanding of the underlying trading recognised as a charge to equity once approved and interim dividends position of the Group these items are summarised within the operating are charged once paid.
profit, note 3 on page 123, under the heading of Exceptional items.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT LEASES The Groups exposure to financial risks and its financial and capital Assets held under leasing agreements, which transfer substantially all management policies are detailed in the Finance Directors Review the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are included in property, and the Risk Management Report on pages 39 to 45. plant and equipment.
The capital elements of the related lease obligations are included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the lease obligations are charged to the income statement over the period of the lease term.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is AND JUDGMENTS depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the Estimates and judgments used in preparing the financial statements lease term.
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the equal the related actual results.
lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the over the period of the lease.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
a Fair value estimation DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as available-for-sale is based upon quoted market prices at the balance The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in order sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by to hedge underlying financial and commercial exposures.
Derivative the Group is the current bid price.
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and at their fair value.
payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair values of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the on the nature of the item being hedged.
Group for similar financial instruments.
The Group designates derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, a hedge of a forecasted The fair value of acquired intangible assets is estimated based upon the present value of modelled related expected future cash flows.
transaction or of the foreign currency risk on a firm commitment cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity net Judgement may be applied in the determination of the growth rates, investment hedges.
discount rates and the expected cash flows.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify b Impairment of assets as fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have income statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets are reviewed asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is equity.
Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results in determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis the recognition of a non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the of managements assumptions and estimates.
This determination requires gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity significant judgment.
In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the consolidated an investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and nearincome statement and classified as income or expense in the same term business outlook for the investment, including factors such as periods during which the hedged firm commitment or forecasted industry and sector performance, changes in regional economies and transaction affects the income statement.
operational and financing cash flow.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised c Income taxes immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision time remains in the hedging reserves and is recognised in the income for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which statement when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of accounting or when the committed or forecasted transaction ultimately business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from occurs.
When a committed or forecasted transaction is no longer the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such equity is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED d Pension obligations The basis of classification depends on the entitys business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to of assumptions.
present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling.
There is now a new The assumption used in determining the net cost or income for pension expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment obligations is a discount rate based upon high quality corporate bonds.
For financial liabilities there were no changes to Any changes in the assumptions may impact the carrying amount of classification and measurement except for the recognition of changes in pension obligations, the charge in the income statement, or statement own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated of comprehensive income.
at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each tests.
It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the present and hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same as value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the one management actually use for risk management purposes.
Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the currently prepared under IAS 39.
The standard is effective for accounting interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to The changes to the hedge accounting requirements are not expected maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other key to have a material impact on the Group.
The classification of Financial assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market Instruments is not expected to have a material impact on the Group, conditions.
As well as the discount rate, the inflation rates and with the exception of any items that are classified as fair value through life expectancy are also key assumptions.
OCI, where there will be no recycling through the Income statement.
To set the price inflation assumptions the Group considers market The change to an expected loss model will mainly focus of the Groups expectations of inflation at the appropriate durations.
Adjustments are impairment of trade receivables.
The impact of this is being assessed.
made to these rates where necessary to reflect an inflation risk premium.
IFRS 15 - Revenue from contracts with customers In determining the life expectancy assumptions the Group considers the mortality assumptions used by the Trustees of the pension schemes in IFRS 15 revenue from contracts with customers is effective for annual their latest actuarial valuations and also mortality guidance laid out by periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and addresses revenue legislation.
This enables the Group to determine a best estimate of life recognition for customer contracts, with particular focus on aligning expectancy that is appropriate for accounting purposes.
revenue recognition with the separate and distinct performance obligation to the customer.
The standard replaces IAS 18 revenue and IAS 11 e Errors and omissions liability construction contracts and related interpretations.
The Groups review During the ordinary course of business the Group can be subject to claims of the standard is on-going, but will implement in January 2018, for errors and omissions made in connection with its broking activities.
reporting revenues on this basis for the half year period ending 30 June A balance sheet provision is established in respect of such claims when 2018 and full year period ending 31 December 2018.
Restatements of it is probable that the liability has been incurred and the amount of the 2017 revenues for these corresponding periods will be completed at liability can be reasonably estimated.
The Group analyses its litigation exposures based on available information, Under existing accounting policies, the primary trigger for revenue including external legal consultation where appropriate, to assess its recognition is the policy inception date, and this is anticipated to remain potential liability.
the same under the new standard.
The Group defers some elements of revenue currently, primarily to reflect anticipated claims handling The outcome of the currently pending and future proceedings cannot be activity but is considering non-claims servicing requirements under predicted with certainty.
Thus, an adverse decision in a current or future the new standard.
At this time, the Group is not able to conclude or lawsuit could result in additional costs that are not covered, either wholly or partially, under insurance policies and are in excess of the presently quantify the impact of the new standard on revenues, but it is likely that further elements of revenue will be deferred for both insurance broking established provisions.
It is possible therefore that the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Group could be materially arrangements and long-term administrative contracts.
The standard also requires costs to be aligned with revenue recognition wherever possible affected by the unfavourable outcome of litigation.
and this is also being reviewed.
IFRS 16 Leases FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS IFRS 16, Leases requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting The following standards, other than IFRS 16, have been published and future lease payments and a right-of-use asset for virtually all lease are not mandatory for 31 December 2016 reporting periods and the contracts.
This differs from IAS 17 Leases where a distinction between Group has not adopted them early.
a finance lease on balance sheet and an operating lease off balance sheet was required.
Accounting standards and interpretation applicable on or after 1 January 2017 The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application is permitted subject to EU IFRS 9 -Financial Instruments endorsement.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 16s full impact.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2015.
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income OCI and fair value through profit or loss.
118 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016
