191 VERIFICATION OF NON-FINANCIAL DATA For a number of years the group has sought Johnson Matthey compiles, assesses to collect and present certain non-financial and discloses non-financial information for data in respect of human resources, health a number of reasons: and safety and environmental metrics as a where there is a legal obligation means to demonstrate internally and UK Companies Act, mandatory externally our performance as a responsible carbon reporting : business.
We have continued to consider to help drive improved business the metrics we present, the basis of performance: measurement and the processes of collection and consolidation with a view to to demonstrate to institutional investors standardising and improving the relevance that Johnson Mattheys business and quality of the metrics presented, and to approach is responsible, ethical, further improve our processes in this area.
sustainable and offers a sound Certain human resources data forms value proposition: part of Johnson Mattheys accounts which to demonstrate to our customers are subject to external audit.
Other human that Johnson Mattheys business resources data, community investment data conduct meets or exceeds all of the and information relating to charitable required standards: donations is reviewed and verified by internal experts.
to demonstrate to other stakeholders Health and safety data is reviewed by that Johnson Matthey conducts its group health and safety experts and as part business in an appropriate manner: and of the group environment, health and safety to benchmark our corporate EHS audit programme.
Environmental data performance against peer group is reviewed by group environmental experts companies.
and as part of the group EHS audit programme.
Our information disclosures take All data is reviewed by internal many forms including investor interviews, sustainability experts and at appropriate customer questionnaires, independent levels of management up to and including CSR sustainability assurance surveys and the Group Management Committee.
the non-financial data and other information Johnson Matthey uses external described within our annual report.
specialists on specific sustainability issues.
Since 2007 08 our annual non-financial Over the past year this has included external reports have been subject to periodic third audits or reviews of people management party assurance assessment provided by systems, health and safety OHSAS 18001, independent consultants auditors.
environmental management systems such In 2014 15 we commissioned external as ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and RC 14001 verification of our carbon emissions and and environmental compliance ESOS.
We have not The board reviews corporate social sought external verification of our 2015 16 responsibility CSR, and broader environment, health and safety data.
sustainability, issues as part of its risk management process.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
