179 NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31st March 2016 41 Key sources of estimation uncertainty Determining the carrying amounts of some assets and liabilities requires estimation of the effects of uncertain future events on those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The group and parent company have made appropriate estimates when applying the accounting policies, but the actual outcome may differ from those calculated.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: Post-employment benefits The groups and parent companys defined benefit plans are assessed annually by qualified independent actuaries.
The details of the plans and assumptions used are described in note 15.
Goodwill, other intangible assets and other assets Annual impairment reviews of goodwill of 570.0 million parent company 123.4 million are performed which require various assumptions note 17.
Other intangible assets which are not yet being amortised are also subject to annual impairment reviews.
Other assets are assessed for impairment when there is a triggering event that provides evidence that an asset may be impaired.
Impairment reviews are based on discounted cash flow projections.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from such estimates.
Factors such as changes in discount rates, long term growth rates, presence of competition, technical obsolescence and lower than anticipated sales could lead to shorter lives or impairment.
Taxation The tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions in which the group operates.
Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations is unclear then reasonable estimates may be used to determine the tax charge and associated tax provisions included in the accounts.
It can take some time to settle these tax positions and if the tax eventually payable or reclaimable differs then the difference will be charged or credited in the accounts for the year in which it is determined.
Refining process and stock takes The groups and parent companys refining and fabrication businesses process significant quantities of precious metal and, similar to many industrial activities, losses may arise during processing.
The refining businesses alone process over four million oz of platinum group metals each year.
The extent of process losses depends on many factors, including the nature of material being refined, the specific refining processes applied and the processes efficiency.
Judgment is therefore required in estimating the amount of such losses when setting process loss provisions.
Also stock takes, particularly at the refining businesses, involve estimation of volumes in the refining system and the subsequent sampling and assaying of material to assess the precious metal content.
In addition, the results of sampling and assaying and therefore the stock take itself are only available some time after the date of the stock take.
In setting process loss provisions and assessing the stock take results, management takes account of the complexity of the stock take process, past experience, the ability to extract precious metals from the refining process and other factors when estimating losses and gains.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
