190 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 6.
Other Information BASIS OF REPORTING NON-FINANCIAL DATA This year for the first time, Johnson Matthey During 2015 16 we reduced the Certain employee data is included in the is reporting in accordance with the GRI G4 number of environmental indicators that we accounts which is subject to external audit.
The company has report on whilst we develop our new EHS The groups other social, health and safety applied these in an appropriate context to data tracking software.
and environmental data is collected annually the group by examination of the definition, Global warming potential in tonnes of at a group level.
It is completed by businesses explanatory notes and self diagnosis tests to carbon dioxide CO2 equivalent includes and signed off by the general manager for ensure a fair, balanced and understandable Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and Scope each global operation.
The reported description when assessed against the 3 electricity transmission and distribution site level data is a combination of actual reporting criteria.
This report covers the losses.
For the first time this year, we are measurement and estimates.
The processes period from 1st April 2015 to 31st March reporting our Scope 2 emissions according in place to internally verify the reported data 2016.
Our last annual report was published to the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol are described in the Verification section on in June 2015. corporate standard 2015 revision, page 191.
This report has been developed to http: ghgprotocol.
Injury and Illness Calculation incorporate the groups significant We report GHG emissions from economic, environmental and social impacts processes and energy use and convert Definitions and is set within the context of the United the total group energy use to tonnes CO2 The following metrics are used in this report.
Nations Brundtland definition of equivalent using conversion factors for each Lost time injury and illness rate LTIIR is sustainability 1987 and our own emissions source as published by Defra.
defined as the number of lost workday cases Sustainability 2017 goals.
Understanding For the location based method per 200,000 hours worked in a rolling year.
the relevance of local, national, regional and of Scope 2 accounting we use national A lost workday case is defined as an global issues, regulation and legislation is carbon intensity factors related to incident where an employee or contractor is taken into account when considering the consumption of grid electricity unable to work for more than one scheduled reporting.
The principles of inclusivity, published by Defra in June 2015, working day as a result of a work related materiality and responsiveness help to www.
shape the structure of the report and in for all facilities outside of the US.
For US Total recordable injury and illness setting priorities for reporting.
facilities we use regional carbon factors rate TRIIR is defined as the number of Environmental performance data published by the EPA in August 2015, eGRID recordable cases per 200,000 hours worked covers manufacturing, research and data 2012, www.
For the market in a rolling year.
warehousing operations of the parent based method of Scope 2 accounting, we A recordable case as defined under company and its subsidiaries.
Data from have applied the hierarchy of sources for the OSHA Regulations is defined as a work new facilities is included from the point at determination of appropriate carbon related accident or illness that results in one which the facility becomes fully operational.
intensity factors, as outlined in Table 6.3 or more of the following: absence of more The report also explains how we are on page 48 of the guidance.
We have than one day, medical treatment beyond first continuing to build sustainability into our successfully obtained carbon intensity factors aid, death, loss of consciousness and business planning and decision making directly from our grid electricity suppliers restricted work or transfer to another job.
processes and how, through our in the EU, US and Australia.
However, it 200,000 is the base for 100 full time governance processes, we manage social, has not been possible to obtain any market equivalent workers working 40 hours per environmental and ethical matters across information from our grid electricity suppliers week for 50 weeks per year.
in China, India, South Africa and non-OECD Data measurement techniques, Europe.
For sites in these countries, we LTIIR by Event Type Definitions including calculations for social, have continued to use the Defra factors, Slip, trip or fall: Injury occurring where environmental and health and safety with the exception of Macedonia where a there is too little friction or traction between performance, have applied internationally carbon factor supplied directly by the an individuals footwear and the walking recognised protocols such as the national government has been used.
Trip injury occurs when the foot hits Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Under the UK mandatory GHG an object causing a person to lose balance.
Accounting and Reporting Standard reporting requirements we are required A fall injury is recorded when someone falls Revised Edition and the GRI indicator to ensure that the quantification of GHG from an elevated surface e. g. roof, object protocols as appropriate.
Any exceptions emissions and data reliability is sufficient or temporary work platform e. g. ladder, are noted.
to meet our obligation under the UK or into an opening in a floor or a hole in All non-financial performance data is Companies Act 2006 Strategic and the ground.
reported on a financial year basis unless Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Struck against: Injury occurring as a otherwise stated.
Where necessary data The data we have presented for our global result of coming into contact with a surface has been restated, for example to reflect warming potential in this report contains all or object in which the action was initiated changes in the business e. g. divestments Johnson Mattheys material GHG emissions by the person for example when a and site closures, to take account of changes and therefore meets the requirements of this screwdriver slips.
in best practice methodologies for reporting legislation.
We have included a mandatory and changes in calculating emissions.
GHG report in the table on page 77.
Calculation of Occupational For employee data, percentage calculations Illness Rates are made in relation to the number of permanent and temporary employees in the Incidence rate for occupational illnesses in group but does not include agency workers the year number of new occupational not directly employed by Johnson Matthey illnesses diagnosed in the year x 1,000 unless otherwise stated.
average number of employees in the year.
