The Board continues to manage succession so that it has an appropriate balance of skills and diverse approaches to its tasks.
Having served as a Director since 2005, Kate Bolsover retired from the Board in September.
Kate contributed enormously to the deliberations of the Board over her tenure and we wish her well for the future.
Nadia Manzoor joined the Board with effect from 1st June 2016.
Nadia commenced her career as a corporate lawyer at Slaughter & May and currently works for S. W. Mitchell Capital, a specialist European equities investment management house, where she is a Partner, Head of Business Development and General Counsel to the firm.
Nadia is a scholar of Downing College, Cambridge University where she read Law.
The Board will continue to manage succession and refresh its own composition over time.
As previously announced, I will be standing down from the Board in July 2017.
I will be seeking reappointment at the Annual General Meeting, but will be handing over the Chair to Dr Kevin Carter at the conclusion of that meeting.
My reappointment will permit me to stay on the Board for a two month period to assist with a smooth handover.
Annual General Meeting and Shareholder Contact This years Annual General Meeting is the Companys 101st and it will be held on Thursday, 11th May 2017 at 2.30 p. m. at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP.
As in previous years, in addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from our Investment Manager, Garrett Fish, who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, Garrett, and representatives of JPMF after the meeting.
I look forward to welcoming as many shareholders as possible to this meeting.
Throughout the year and in addition to the opportunity to hear from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, I very much encourage shareholders to get in touch to share their views.
I can be contacted through our Company Secretary, whose details are set out on page 69.
Outlook Given the extraordinary political surprises of 2016, making predictions for 2017 seems a little foolhardy.
At the time of writing there is evidence of continued growth in the US economy and indeed the Federal Reserve has now raised rates thrice since December 2015.
Sections of the US equity market remain apparently vulnerable to swings in sentiments as the new President unveils policy on Twitter but the reality of implementation is far from clear.
As the academics at New York University pointed out to us, the checks and balances within the US system are many and perhaps less will change than the headlines suggest.
In the meantime, US equities are not at their cheapest, but the economy is looking reasonably resilient.
We have been working closely with the investment manager this year on his investment process.
Delivering outperformance is not easy but we do believe we have the analysis to support a view that a return to favour of the characteristics of value, momentum and quality is likely over time.
This together with an improvement in technique gives us grounds for optimism.
This is my last report as Chair and I am grateful for the commitment and support of all my colleagues over the years.
I am pleased to be handing over to Dr Kevin Carter who brings considerable experience of US equities, investment trusts and chairmanship, to the role.
Sarah Bates Chair 24th March 2017 7 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Market Review US equity markets in 2016 can be best described as a tale of two halves.
In the first half, volatility was attributable to several factors including the devaluation of the Chinese renminbi RMB, crude oil prices falling below US dollar 30.00 bbl.
and fears of a global economic slowdown.
As a result, the S&P 500 Index S&P 500 reached a closing low of 1829.08 on 11th February, down more than 10% in dollar terms.
Equity markets were quite choppy through the spring as investors remained on edge over the sub-par growth of the US economy.
As the summer months approached, investor focus turned towards the British referendum on European Union EU membership.
The outcome caught investors by surprise as a majority of British voters voted in favour of leaving the EU which initially threw global equity markets, bond yields and the British pound into a tailspin.
Once investors realised that the potential economic impact would be more localised to the United Kingdom, global equity markets rebounded.
The S&P 500 rallied on Junes final three trading days to finish the years first six months with a gain of 3.8% in US dollar terms.
While the markets resilience was impressive, overall the tone of the market remained defensive.
However, improvement in global economic growth, recovering commodity prices and the realisation that Brexit was a political crisis rather than a financial crisis contributed to equity markets stabilising during the second half of the year.
Improving sentiment led to a shift in market leadership from the defensive to the cyclical sectors.
The rotation into cyclicals intensified when in another surprising turn of events, Mr Donald J. Trump was elected the 45th President of the United States.
As investors anticipated a pro-growth, pro-business agenda to be put forth by the incoming president, equity markets rallied, bond yields rose and the US dollar, which had been stable for most of the year, strengthened.
The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond which had been rising steadily from its July low of 1.36% climbed to 2.45% at year end, with the majority of the increase coming after the election.
With the post-Presidential election rally the S&P 500 managed to return a very respectable 11.6% US dollar return.
The outcome looked even better in sterling terms due to the weakness of the pound after the Brexit vote, resulting in a total return of 33.1%.
From a sector point of view, financials and technology bounced back from the worst performing sectors in the first half to the best in the second half.
Above all, the energy sector was the winner given the recovery in crude oil prices which closed out 2016 at US dollar 53.72 bbl.
On the other hand, real estate was the worst performing sector due to the considerable rise in bond yields.
Overall Asset Allocation and Performance The investment management team is responsible for managing the allocation between the large and the small cap growth portfolios, together with the levels of cash and gearing.
In 2016, the Companys gearing ranged between 7.8% and 9.2% of shareholders funds, with the level at the year-end being 8.5%.
The level of gearing has been adjusted at regular intervals within the gearing guidelines laid down by the Board.
With the strong finish to the year, gearing, minus the cost of the debt, was beneficial to the portfolio.
The weighting in the small cap portfolio ranged between 3.7% and 5.9% of the Companys total assets less current liabilities and ended the year at 4.8%.
Our allocation model prompted us to add and trim from our small cap allocation during the year.
We believe that our ability to move between the two segments enhances returns to shareholders over the long term and also helps to balance our overall risk.
Attribution data for 2016 shows that both our large cap portfolio and our smaller companies portfolio detracted for the period.
In the quest to improve upon our management of the portfolio we embarked upon on project during the year that should prove beneficial in the years to come.
It began with utilising the analysis received from Inalytics, the firm mentioned in the Chairs statement.
8 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 We took this to a more granular level which consisted of running a multi-faceted analysis of the purchasing and selling of securities in the portfolio.
The primary take aways from this analysis were that the performance of the new purchases were more beneficial than the sales of the portfolio.
In order to increase the positive effect we learned that our new PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 %% Contributions to total returns Net asset value total return in sterling terms 30.8 Benchmark total return in sterling terms 33.1 Excess return 2.3 Contributions to total returns Large cap portfolio 2.4 Allocation effect 0.9 Selection effect 1.5 Small cap portfolio 0.2 Allocation and selection effect 0.2 Gearing 2.7 Cost of debt 0.7 Currency hedge 1.3 Share issuance buy back 0.2 Management fee expenses 0.6 Total 2.3 Source: JPMAM and Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark index.
A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 66. purchases should be larger than they have in the most recent past and smaller holdings that do not rank well in our ranking methodology should be exited more quickly.
Also in order to decrease the drag from the securities that have started to underperform we need to be more diligent in removing those securities from the portfolio in a more timely fashion and place the proceeds into more attractive and better performing securities.
One of the end results will be a portfolio with a smaller amount of securities but these securities obviously have a higher weighting.
In technical terms this adaptation will also increase the portfolios active share.
This term in relatively new in the past few years and shows the amount of overlap a portfolio has with its respective benchmark.
For example if a security has a 2% weighting in the benchmark and we hold a 4% position in the same security, the active share 9 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED contribution will be 2%.
Simplistically, a portfolio that mimics the benchmark completely will have an active share of 0 while a fund that has zero holdings in its respective benchmark will have an active share of 100.
Our active share for the large cap portfolio ended the year at 67.1 and has ranged between the mid 60s and the low 70s over the past decade.
With these enhancements we expect the active share of the large cap portfolio to be at the higher end of this range more consistently.
Large Companies Portfolio Our investment methodology continues to focus on investing in high quality, reasonably valued companies.
This style leads us to invest in companies that exhibit good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
When constructing our portfolio, we use the core tenets of behavioural finance to narrow our investment universe.
Behavioural finance theory indicates that on average, high quality, fast growing, cheap stocks with good news-flow outperform lower quality, slow growing, and expensive stocks with bad news-flow.
Taking this approach, we rank the stocks in our universe to uncover those companies that are high quality, attractively valued and are also exhibiting improving sentiment momentum.
We then undertake fundamental research to validate the rankings.
This leads us to invest in quality companies that exhibit good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
2016 was a difficult investment environment for our strategy.
The year started with a double-digit decline in the S&P 500 and ended the year with a positive 12% return.
We have a valuation bias throughout our portfolio and this proved to be poor year based on that sole criterion.
A valuation bias means that our portfolio has securities that are less expensive using our valuation criteria relative to the benchmark.
Our portfolio has generally the same, if not better growth characteristics, while being more reasonably valued than the benchmark.
In 2016 it was those securities that were more expensive than the benchmark that performed the best, a rare occurrence.
We know that valuation does not work all of the time but that it has been, and we continue to believe will be, the most powerful attribute to performance over the longer term.
Economically not much changed throughout the year as the US witnessed a continuation of employment growth, low to stable unemployment rate, low inflation, modest GDP growth and modest earnings growth.
Prior to the Presidential election the market was marginally higher in US dollar terms than the beginning of the year.
What changed is the perception that the Trump administration will be much more pro-business which could lead to an acceleration of growth.
This is the return of the animal spirits to the markets.
The real test for 2017 will be what policies the new President will be able to enact working with both the House of Representatives and the Senate.
The large companies portfolio posted a positive return, but underperformed the benchmark for the period under review.
This underperformance was mainly driven by weak stock selection in financials, energy and telecom services sectors.
Within financials selling Voya Financials and Bank of America during the year had the largest negative impact on our performance in that sector.
These two companies, along with many other financials, struggled to perform in a market with low interest rates.
In the run up to the Presidential election interest rates began to move higher and this led to financials regaining traction relative to the rest of the market.
By reducing our position too early we missed the sharp rally in the last quarter of the year.
Given increased confidence in the health of the US economy in the second half of the year, the yield on the 10 year US treasury started to increase, coinciding with the Fed expressing confidence in rate increases.
This move in rates accelerated post the US election.
Since Bank of America is one of the most interest rate sensitive US banks with high leverage to the US economy, the stock outperformed.
Additionally, the companys various restructuring initiatives started to bear fruit with 10 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 investors expressing increased confidence in management.
Finally, the hope of roll-back of some banking regulations post the US elections contributed to the banks outperformance.
While financial names benefited from the post election rhetoric, health care names bore much of the brunt mainly due to concerns about drug pricing as well as the future of the Affordable Healthcare Act.
As a result, health care was the worst performing sector in the S&P 500 in 2016.
We have several overweight positions in the sector which were negatively impacted, with the worst impact coming from Gilead Sciences and Cigna.
Shares of Gilead Sciences declined on pricing pressure concerns within their US Hepatitis-C business.
The company also experienced a few small setbacks in its pipeline.
Volumes in Hepatitis-C have started to show some stabilisation but overall results continue to be mixed.
We continue to hold the name due, to the strength of the management team, their capital allocation policies as well as the stocks attractive valuation.
Shares of Cigna struggled to perform during the year as the US Department of Justice was taking a harsh view of the proposed merger between Anthem and Cigna.
In the energy sector, negative stock selection was driven by names such as Marathon Petroleum and Valero Energy.
After being significant contributors in the prior year, both securities were hurt by the recovery in the oil price during the year.
Their input costs crude oil rose more quickly than their selling prices of refined products diesel, petrol, jet fuel which hurt their margins and earnings.
On the other hand, our stock selection in the information technology, consumer discretionary and consumer staples sectors proved beneficial.
Within information technology our overweight positions in Qualcomm, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. were among the largest contributors.
Shares of Qualcomm rose due to a widely anticipated accretive buyout of NXP Semiconductors.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. rose sharply during the year after the two companies split from the old Hewlett Packard.
The management teams were newly reinvigorated to cost cuts and to position both companies onto a growth trajectory.
We have very large positions in both Microsoft and Apple and both companies marginally beat the benchmark during the calendar year.
We believe that both companies are positioned for success in some of the faster growing areas of technology and are trading at reasonable prices.
In the consumer discretionary sector shares of our overweight position in Time Warner rose after AT&T offered to acquire the company.
In the consumer staples space, our investments in Tyson Foods and Energizer Holdings proved beneficial.
Shares in Tyson Foods outperformed for the year as the positive impact from their Hillshire Farms acquisition began to pay off in improved margins and faster growth.
Their results were further aided by lowered input costs due to the ample supplies of grain.
Our position in Wal Mart Stores also added to performance as it has started to reap the benefits of it prior years investments into increasing its online presence and its renewed commitment to having the lowest prices for its customers.
Among individual names, overweight positions in UGI and Northrop Grumman contributed to relative performance.
In 2016, UGI continued to execute on its strategy to drive core gas utility growth and make opportunistic acquisitions and investments at attractive returns.
Earnings reports were solid throughout the year driven by better international propane performance and growth at the US gas utility.
Northrup Grumman continued its strong performance in 2016 as prior contract wins and disciplined expense management contributed to continued strong earnings, cash flow and dividend growth.
Several large contract wins from the US and foreign governments during the year also contributed to the share price performance.
Research and development costs will now begin to increase to support these long term contracts.
11 Strategic Report continued INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED In terms of portfolio positioning, we added to our health care exposure and trimmed from consumer staples.
Consumer staples is now the third largest overweight after health care.
Our largest overweight remains in the information technology sector.
We are overall optimistic on the technology sector due to its growth profile and we are currently overweight the hardware and semiconductors areas.
On the other hand, we retain our underweight in the materials sector, as we are less excited about the long term growth prospects as well as unappealing valuation levels relative to other sectors.
We have also shifted to a larger underweight in industrials during the year.
Sector Weightings of the Large Cap Portfolio versus S&P 500 as at 31st December 2016 Large company portfolio S&P 500 Sector % % Information Technology 25.4 20.8 Health Care 17.6 13.6 Financials 13.3 14.8 Consumer Staples 11.1 9.4 Consumer Discretionary 10.4 12.0 Industrials 8.2 10.3 Energy 7.6 7.5 Utilities 3.6 3.2 Telecommunication Services 2.8 2.7 Real Estate 2.9 Materials 2.8 Does not include small cap stocks and net current assets.
Based on the MSCI Global Industry Classification Standards.
The table below shows the largest positive and negative stock contributors to the Companys portfolio performance in 2016: Stock return Average position based on relative to average weight Benchmark Impact on over the year over year performance Stock %%% Positive Contributors UGI Corporation 66.4 1.6 0.43 Northrop Grumman Corporation 49.3 2.9 0.40 Allergan Plc 0.0 0.5 0.34 Qualcomm Incorporated 48.6 1.8 0.29 FMC Technologies 38.1 0.6 0.26 Negative Contributors Gilead Sciences 13.7 2.0 1.02 Voya Financial 27.1 0.5 0.57 Cigna Corporation 8.8 1.0 0.34 Bank Of America Corporation 12.6 0.6 0.34 Marathon Petroleum Corporation 20.1 1.1 0.27 12 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Smaller Companies Portfolio US small cap growth names came under pressure in 2016 and ended the period lagging their large cap peers for the third year in a row.
The year presented a challenging environment for our investment style and our US small cap growth portfolio posted a positive return, however, underperformed the benchmark during the period.
In particular, our stock selection in information technology, consumer discretionary and consumer staples proved unsatisfactory and was the main driver behind our results.
While several of our small cap information technology stocks did well, our earlier stage investments and some overweights materially hindered performance.
On the positive side, stock selection was strong in the real estate and materials space.
For our smaller companies portfolio we believe that long-term investments in companies with leading competitive positions, run by highly motivated and talented management that can sustain growth over a period of many years, will lead to stock market outperformance.
Outlook We believe that many of President Trumps stated polices are pro-growth and the prospect of corporate tax reform, increased infrastructure spending and less regulation are positives for equities.
Given that one of his top priorities is the repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act, we would expect heightened volatility in the health care sector.
We believe caution is warranted regarding the post-election enthusiasm as there remains a large degree of uncertainty as to what the final outcome of President Trumps broad agenda will be and to the timing of when proposals will become law.
It could be a strong possibility that the Presidents ambitious proposals may be scaled back and implemented later than expected as the legislative process unfolds.
While the recent time period has not lived up to our expectations in terms of performance, we still firmly believe that our investment process of purchasing and holding attractively valued securities with positive operating momentum will pay off through time.
While a frustrating period, we believe that patience will be rewarded with better outperformance in the future.
Garrett Fish Investment Manager 24th March 2017 13 Strategic Report continued SUMMARY OF RESULTS 2016 2015 Total returns for the year ended 31st December 1 Return to shareholders 34.9%2.4% 2 Return on net assets with debt at par value 30.8% 4.7% 2 Return on net assets with debt at fair value 31.2% 5.0% 1,3 Benchmark 33.1% 6.9% Net asset value, share price, discount and market data at 31st December % change Net asset value per share with debt at par value 381.0p 295.6p 28.9 4 Net asset value per share with debt at fair value 379.3p 293.4p 29.3 Share price 369.2p 277.9p 32.9 Share price discount to net asset value per share with debt at par value 3.1 % 6.0 % Share price discount to net asset value per share with debt at fair value 2.7 % 5.3 % Shareholders funds 000 985,216 816,700 20.6 Market capitalisation 000 954,653 767,791 24.3 5 S&P 500 Index expressed in sterling capital only 1,811.9 1,386.8 30.7 Exchange rate 1 $1.2356 1 $1.4819 16.6 Shares in issue excluding shares held in Treasury 258,573,403 276,283,026 6.4 Revenue for the year ended 31st December Net revenue attributable to shareholders 000 15,180 12,911 17.6 Return per share 5.70p 4.64p 22.8 Dividend per share 5.00p 4.00p 25.0 6 Gearing at 31st December 8.5%8.4% 7 Ongoing Charges 0.62% 0.62% 8 Ongoing Charges including any performance fee payable 0.62% 0.62% 9 Management Fee 0.50% 0.50% 1 Source: Morningstar.
3 The Companys benchmark is the S&P 500 Index expressed in sterling total return terms.
4 The fair value of the 50m debenture issued by the Company has been calculated using discounted cash flow techniques, using the yield from a similarly dated gilt plus a margin based on the five year average for the AA Barclays Sterling Corporate Bond spread.
6 The methodology to calculate gearing has been amended during the year therefore the comparative figure has been recalculated for comparative purposes.
Please refer to the glossary of terms and definitions on page 66 for the revised calculation.
7 Ongoing charges represent the management fee and all other operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net assets during the year.
The ongoing charges are calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in May 2012.
8 Ongoing charges including any performance fee payable represents the management fee, performance fee and all other operating expenses excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net assets during the year.
9 The level of the management fee, excluding any performance fee payable.
A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 66.
14 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 TEN YEAR PERFORMANCE Total Return FIGURES HAVE BEEN REBASED TO 100 AT 31ST DECEMBER 2006 350 1 2 3 JPMorgan American share price total return.
JPMorgan American net asset value total return.
2 Source: Morningstar J. P. Morgan using net asset value per share, cum income with debt at fair value.
Prior to 30th June 2008, capital only net asset value with debt at par value.
3 The Companys benchmark index is the S&P 500 Index, net of the appropriate withholding tax, expressed in sterling total return terms.
2 The methodology to calculate gearing has been amended during the year therefore the 2015 comparative figure has been recalculated for comparative purposes.
3 Source: Morningstar J. P. Morgan.
4 Source: Morningstar J. P. Morgan using net asset value per share, cum income, with debt at fair value.
5 Source: Morningstar J. P. Morgan using net asset value per share, cum income, with debt at par value.
6 The Companys benchmark is the S&P 500 Index expressed in sterling total return terms.
16 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 TEN LARGEST EQUITY INVESTMENTS AT 31ST DECEMBER For a full list of the Companys investments please refer to the Companys website at www.
co. uk, where the portfolio is available a month in arrears.
2 Not included in the ten largest equity investments at 31st December 2015.
At 31st December 2015 the value of the ten largest equity investments amounted to 260.3m representing 29.4% of total investments.
This is based on the average purchases and sales expressed as a percentage of average opening and closing portfolio values.
17 Strategic Report continued BUSINESS REVIEW The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with the Investment Limits and Restrictions ability to assess how the Directors have performed their duty to all at time of investment promote the success of the Company during the year under review.
The Company will not normally invest more than 8% of its gross assets in any one individual stock.
Structure and Objective of the Company The Company will normally limit its five largest investments to JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc is an investment trust 40% of its gross assets.
and has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Its objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth from The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in North American investments.
In seeking to achieve this objective, liquidity funds in normal market conditions.
the Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets in Manager which, in turn, delegates portfolio management to companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of gross JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM which further delegates assets in listed closed-ended funds.
to JPMorgan Asset Management, Inc. to manage the Companys assets actively.
The Board has determined an investment policy The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in and related guidelines and limits, as described below.
It aims to other listed closed-ended funds.
outperform a benchmark, which is the S&P 500 Index, with net The Company will use gearing when appropriate to increase dividends reinvested, expressed in sterling terms.
The Companys gearing policy The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and is to operate within a range of 5% net cash to 20% geared in regulations including UK company law, UK Financial Reporting normal market conditions.
The Manager is accountable for Standards, the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and tactically managing the gearing, within a 2.0% range around Transparency Rules, the Market Abuse Regulation, taxation law and a normal gearing level.
The normal gearing level, which is set by the Companys own Articles of Association.
The Companys the Board and kept under review, is currently 10%.
underlying investments are also subject to some US regulation.
The Company only hedges its currency risk in respect of the full The Company is an investment company within the meaning of value of the sterling debenture.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved by Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and guidelines HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the purposes of is monitored by JPMF and is reported to the Board on a monthly Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
the Company is not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that approval will not continue Performance to be retained.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
In the year ended 31st December 2016, the Company produced a total return to shareholders of 34.9% and a total return on net Investment Policies and Risk Management assets of 30.8%.
This compares with the return on the Companys benchmark in sterling terms of 33.1%.
At 31st December 2016, the In order to achieve its investment objectives and to seek to manage value of the Companys investment portfolio was 1,068.8 million.
risk, the Company mainly invests in a diversified portfolio of quoted The Investment Managers Report on pages8to13 includes a companies including, when appropriate, exposure to smaller review of developments during the year as well as information on capitalisation stocks.
The Company currently has separate portfolios investment activity within the Companys portfolio and the factors dedicated to larger capitalisation and smaller capitalisation likely to affect the future performance of the Company.
The number of investments in the larger capitalisation portfolio will normally range between 60-100 stocks representing Total Return, Revenue and Dividends between 80-100% of the Companys equity portfolio.
The number of investments in the smaller capitalisation portfolio will normally As detailed on page39, gross total return for the year amounted to range between 100-120 stocks representing between 0-20% of the 247.6 million 2015: 47.4 million and net total return after Companys equity portfolio.
The Company may invest in pooled deducting finance costs, administrative expenses and taxation, funds to achieve its aims.
Distributable income for the year totalled 15.2 million 2015: 12.9 million.
18 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 The Company paid an interim dividend of 2.25p per share on 2016 were 0.62% 2015: 0.62%.
Since no performance fee was 11th October 2016.
Directors recommend a final dividend of payable in 2016 the ongoing charges including performance fee 2.75p per share, payable on 15th May 2017 to shareholders on the payable for the year ended 31st December 2016 were also 0.62% register at the close of business on 18th April 2017.
dividend distribution for 2016 of 5.0p per share represents an increase of 25% on last years 4.0p distribution.
These distributions Share Capital total 13.0 million 2015: 11.1 million.
After payment of the final The Company has authority to both purchase shares for cancellation dividend the revenue reserve will amount to 16.0 million 2015: or holding in Treasury, and issue new shares in the market for cash 13.7 million.
at a premium to net asset value.
During the financial year, the Company repurchased 17,709,623 Key Performance Indicators KPIs shares, into Treasury, for a total consideration of 54,144,000.
Since The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess the year end, the Company has repurchased 6,902,816 shares, into the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: Treasury, for a total consideration of 26.2 million.
Performance against the benchmark index No shares were issued during the year or since the year end.
This is an important KPI by which performance is judged.
Special Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue and Please refer to the graphs on page15 for details of the Companys repurchase shares will be put to shareholders for approval at the performance relative to its benchmark index over 10 years.
Performance against the Companys peers The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative to the Board Diversity benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors performance When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to appoint relative to a broad range of appropriate competitor funds both in individuals on merit.
Diversity is important in bringing an the UK and the US.
appropriate range of skills and experience to the Board and an Performance attribution assessment is made of the qualities and skills of the existing Board The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess how before appointing new directors.
When completing a review of the the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark skills and experience of Directors, the Board feels that they are index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys relative equipped with the necessary attributes required for the sound performance of the various components such as asset allocation, stewardship of the Company and that their knowledge sets allow for gearing and stock selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for lively and engaging debates.
Full details of the skills and experience the year ended 31st December 2016 are given in the Investment of the Directors can be found on pages 22 and 23.
At 31st December Managers Report on page9.
2016, there were three male Directors and two female Directors on the Board.
Please refer to pages 27 and 28 for more information on Share price relative to net asset value NAV per share with the workings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
debt at fair value The Board has adopted a share issuance and repurchase policy Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights that seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Issues Companys shares in the market.
In the year to 31st December 2016, the shares traded between a discount of 0.4% and 7.5% The Company has a management contract with JPMF.
It has no month end figures calculated with debt at fair value and employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, the day to day including income.
Please refer to the Chairs Statement on activities being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no pages3 and7 for further information.
disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board notes JPMAMs policy statements in respect of Social, Community, Ongoing charges Environmental and Human Rights issues, as outlined below, in The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee italics.
The Board also discusses JPMAMs policies in this area with and all other operating expenses, excluding finance costs and any corporate engagement personnel during the course of its annual performance fee payable, expressed as a percentage of the visits to the Managers New York office.
average daily net assets during the year.
The ongoing charges excluding any performance fee for the year ended 31st December 19 Strategic Report continued BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Social, Community, Environmental and Human Rights With the assistance of JPMF, the Risk Committee has drawn up a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These are JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible reviewed and noted by the Board.
These key risks fall broadly under manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic the following categories: interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the future impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
prices of the Companys investments.
This market risk comprises Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance three elements equity market risk, currency risk and interest ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and rate risk.
The Board considers the split in the portfolio between report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their small and large companies, sector and stock selection and levels industry.
JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of of gearing on a regular basis and has set investment restrictions Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, and guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by JPMF.
with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when The Board monitors the implementation and results of the making stock selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our investment process with the Manager.
However, the fortunes of detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on the portfolio are significantly determined by market movements request.
in US equities, the rate of exchange between the US dollar and sterling and interest rate changes.
This is a risk that investors The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict take having invested into a single country fund.
investments in securities issued by companies that have been identified by an independent third party provider as being involved in Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment strategy, the manufacture, production or supply of cluster munitions, depleted poor asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to uranium ammunition and armour and or anti-personnel mines.
underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and Shareholders can obtain further details on the policy by contacting its peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on the Manager.
The Board mitigates this risk by insisting on diversification of investments through its investment restrictions Greenhouse Gas Emissions and guidelines which are monitored and reported on regularly by the Managers.
JPMF provides the Directors with timely and The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or accurate management information, including performance data diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and footprint.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
The Board monitors the implementation JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing and results of the investment process with the investment social and environmental risk in project finance.
manager, who attends the majority of Board meetings, and reviews data which details the portfolios risk profile.
The The Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA investment manager employs the Companys gearing within The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human a strategic range set by the Board.
trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
Operational and Cybercrime: Disruption to, or failure of, the As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods Managers accounting, dealing or payments systems or the and services, the MSA does not apply directly to it.
The MSA custodians or depositarys records could prevent accurate requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM.
reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
JPMorgans statement on Human Rights can be found on the On 1st July 2014, the Company appointed BNY Mellon Trust & following website: www.
com corporate Depositary UK Limited to act as its depositary, responsible for About-JPMC ab-human-rights.
htm overseeing the operations of the custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. and the Companys cash flows.
Details of how the Principal Risks Board monitors the services provided by the Manager and its The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust associates and the key elements designed to provide effective assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including internal control are included in the Internal Control section of the those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Corporate Governance report on pages29 and30.
The threat of solvency or liquidity.
The risks identified and the ways in which they cyber attack, in all its guises, is regarded as at least as important are managed or mitigated are summarised below.
as more traditional physical threats to business continuity and security.
The Board has received the cyber security policies for its 20 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 key third party service providers and JPMF has assured the Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax legislation, Directors that the Company benefits directly or indirectly from all including in the US, UK and the European Union, may adversely elements of JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
The effect the Company either directly or because of restrictions or information technology controls around the physical security of enforced changes on the operations of the Manager.
JPMF makes JPMorgans data centres, security of its networks and security of recommendations to the Board on accounting, dividend and tax its trading applications are tested by independent reporting policies and the Board seeks external advice where appropriate.
accountants and reported every six months against the AAF In addition, the Company is subject to political risks, such as the Standard.
imposition of restrictions on the free movement of capital.
The Company is therefore at risk from changes to the regulatory, Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: The sudden legislative and taxation framework within which it operates, departure of the investment manager or several members of the whether such changes were designed to affect it or not.
The wider investment management team could result in a short term Board will continue to keep under review the impact of the UKs deterioration in investment performance.
The Manager takes decision to leave the European Union.
The negotiations between steps to reduce the likelihood of such an event by ensuring the UK and European Union will likely introduce further currency appropriate succession planning and the adoption of a team volatility to the Companys affairs.
The Board continues to stress to JPMF the importance of retaining the current investment manager.
Long Term Viability Share Price Relative to Net Asset Value NAV per Share: If the The Company was established in 1881 and has now been in share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per existence for 136 years.
The Company is an investment trust and has share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
Throughout the objective of achieving long term capital growth investing in US the majority of 2016, the Companys shares traded at a discount.
The Company has been investing over many economic The Board monitors the Companys premium discount level and, cycles and some difficult market conditions.
although the rating largely depends upon the relative attractiveness of the trust, the Board will seek, where deemed Although past performance and a long historic track record is no prudent, to address imbalances in the supply and demand of the guide to the future, the Directors believe that the Company has an Companys shares through a programme of share issuance and attractive future for investors as a long term investment buybacks.
Unfortunately, it is impossible to look too far into the future, so the Directors have adopted a somewhat shorter time Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an horizon to assess the Companys viability, which is five years.
This is investment trust, the Company must comply with Section 1158 of regarded by many as the minimum time for investing in equities.
the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details of the This exceeds the terms of the Companys indebtedness.
Companys approval are given on page 18.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status and, as The Directors have considered the Companys prospects, principal a consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio would be risks and the outlook for the US economy, its equity market and the subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria market for investment trusts.
They have examined the robustness of are continually monitored by JPMF and the results reported to these base case estimates using further more cautious scenarios, the Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the including in one case repeating some of the returns data for the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed 19291934 Wall Street Crash.
on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet Companies Act 2006 could result in the Company and or the its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years until Directors being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys shares being suspended from listing, which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Directors seek to comply with all By order of the Board relevant regulation and legislation in the UK, Europe and the US Alison Vincent for and on behalf of and rely on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMF, and its JPMorgan Funds Limited professional advisers to monitor compliance with all relevant Company Secretary requirements.
24th March 2017 21 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sarah Bates Chair of the Board and Nomination & Remuneration Committee A Director since 2005.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2016.
Chair of St. Jamess Place plc and Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc.
A Director of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc and Worldwide Healthcare Trust.
She sits on or is advisor to various pension fund and charitable investment committees including that of the Universities Superannuation Scheme.
She was previously a director and chair of the Association of Investment Companies.
Shared appointments with other Directors: Universities Superannuation Scheme Limited Investment Committee with Dr Kevin Carter.
Simon Bragg Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since 2012.
Mr Bragg is Chief Executive of JSB Energy Partners Limited, Chairman and a non-executive Director of You Group Limited parent of Youhome, non-executive Director of Intralink Limited and Bridge Petroleum 1 Limited.
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at KPMG, Mr Bragg previously worked at Hoare Govett, Cargill, HSBC, Oriel Securities and Stifel.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Dr Kevin Carter A Director since 2014.
Currently Chairman and Director of Murray International Trust PLC, a Director of Lowland Investment Company plc, and Aspect Capital Limited, Chairman of the Investment Committee and a trustee director of the BBC Pension Scheme.
He is also a trustee director of Universities Superannuation Scheme Limited and Chairman of its Investment Committee.
Dr Carter is a CFA charter holder and has a doctorate awarded in mathematical statistics with a research subject in financial economics.
Shared appointments with other Directors: Universities Superannuation Scheme Limited Investment Committee with Mrs Sarah Bates.
22 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Sir Alan Collins Chairman of the Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director A Director since 2012.
Sir Alan had a successful career in the British Diplomatic Service where he held a number of Ambassador and High Commissioner appointments and was until August 2011 the Consul General New York and the Director General for Trade and Investment USA.
He was also the managing director in United Kingdom Trade and Investment responsible for the business legacy from the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, having been part of the team that won the bid to bring the Olympics to London.
He is now a non-executive Director of Prudential Assurance Singapore Ltd, Prudential Hong Kong Ltd, Prudential General Insurance Hong Kong Ltd and ICICI Bank UK plc.
He is also an advisor to a number of other limited companies, including St. Jamess Place plc, and a member of the Advisory Council of the London Philharmonic Orchestra.
Last reappointed to the Board: N A. Remuneration: 16,625.
Ms Manzoor is a Partner, Head of Business Development and General Counsel for S. W. Mitchell Capital, a specialist European equities investment management house.
Ms Manzoor commenced her career as a corporate lawyer at Slaughter & May in 2009.
During this time she worked in London, Hong Kong and also spent six months seconded to a FTSE 100 client.
Ms Manzoor is a law scholar of Downing College, Cambridge University.
Shares directorships with other Directors: None.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Risk Committee.
All Directors are considered independent by the Board and are members of the Nomination & Remuneration and Risk Committees.
23 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and the Audited Financial will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through a primary Statements for the year ended 31st December 2016. information provider.
The Companys leverage and JPMFs remuneration disclosures are Management of the Company set out on page 62.
The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the Financial Management and Performance Fees Conduct Authority FCA.
JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The basic management fee is calculated and paid quarterly in JPMorgan Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also arrears and is charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum of the Companys provides marketing, banking and dealing services to the Company.
total assets less current liabilities.
Investments in funds on which the Custodian services are provided by a JPMorgan Chase Bank Manager or any of its associated companies earn a management fee subsidiary, via a contract with the Companys depositary.
are excluded from the calculation and therefore attract no further The Manager is employed under a contract which can be terminated fee.
In addition, a performance fee may be payable.
The Companys on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Company wishes to investment in the JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund is not subject to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of a management fee and therefore not excluded from the calculation.
remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an difference between the cum-income debt at par net asset value annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the total return and the total return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in investment strategy and the process of the Manager, performance sterling terms.
The performance fee due in respect of any single against the benchmark and a relevant peer group over the long year is divided into equal parts payable over three years.
term and the support the Company receives from the Manager.
Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is deducted As a result of the evaluation process, the Board confirms that it is from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with any satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to be interest of shareholders as a whole.
The performance fee paid in any one year will not exceed 0.25% of the The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive cum-income debt at par net asset value at the Companys latest year AIFMD end, with any unpaid excess being carried forward until paid in full.
JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager In the year ended 31st December 2016 the Companys cum-income AIFM.
JPMF has been approved as an AIFM by the FCA.
For the debt at par net asset value total return underperformed the total purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling terms, by fund AIF.
This resulted in a negative performance fee JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management of calculation of 2,028,063.
This amount when added to the the Companys portfolio to JPMorgan Asset Management UK 1,311,633 performance fee offset brought forward from 2015 leaves Limited JPMAM.
The Company has appointed BNY Mellon Trust and a negative balance of 3,339,696, which will be carried forward and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its depositary.
BNY has appointed offset against any future outperformance.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Companys custodian.
BNY remains responsible for the oversight of the custody of the Directors Companys assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the year The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to are detailed on pages22 and23.
In accordance with corporate investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material governance best practice, all Directors will retire by rotation at the changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, which sets out themselves for reappointment.
The Nomination and Remuneration information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, Committee, having considered their qualifications, performance and leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts contribution to the Board and its committees, confirms that each of interest and other shareholder information is available on the Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to Companys website at www.
co. uk There have been no the role and the Board recommends to shareholders that they be material changes other than those reflected in these financial reappointed.
For further details on the experience and skills of each statements to this information requiring disclosure.
Any Director please refer to pages22 and23.
information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD 24 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Number of Director Indemnification and Insurance Shareholders voting rights % As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity, Brewin Dolphin Limited 36,583,963 14.54 as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 28,359,067 11.30 indemnities were in place during the year and as at the date of this Quilter Cheviot Limited 16,921,384 6.72 report.
Rathbone Brothers PLC 12,549,767 4.98 During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by the The Company is also aware that approximately 3.5% of the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company against Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no savings products managed by JPMAM, registered in the name of cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
If those voting rights are not exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance with the terms and conditions Disclosure of information to Auditor of the savings products, under certain circumstances the Manager In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the has the right to exercise those voting rights.
That right is subject to Company at the time when this report was approved: certain limits and restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant general meeting.
a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors, which the Companys auditor is unaware: and amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in the Articles of b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought Association of the Company and the Companies Act 2006. to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to information.
securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: accordance with the provision of S418 2 of the Companies Act and no agreements between the Company and its Directors 2006. concerning compensation for loss of office.
Independent Auditor Annual General Meeting Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Note: This section is important and requires your immediate auditor to the Company and a resolution proposing its attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its you should seek your own personal financial advice from your remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser Annual General Meeting.
authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will Capital Structure and Voting Rights be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside cover i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory of this report.
pre-emption rights resolutions 11 and 12 At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek authority to Voting Rights in the Companys shares issue up to 25,167,058 new shares or shares held in Treasury for Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date of cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,258,352 such this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual General amount being equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital and Meeting on page 65. disapply pre-emption rights upon such issues.
The full text of the Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages63 and64.
At the date of this report, the following had declared a notifiable This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General interest in the Companys voting rights: Meeting of the Company in 2018 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
1 Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk 25 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares Corporate Governance Statement or to sell Treasury shares to investors when the Directors consider Compliance that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made at prices greater than the net asset value the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is Directors Responsibilities on page33, indicates how the Company charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a greater has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for investment Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the UK in line with the Companys investment policies.
Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, which complements the UK Corporate ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Governance Code and provides a framework of best practice for Resolution 13 1 investment trusts.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 11th May 2016, shareholders gave authority to the Company to purchase up to 14.99% of its then The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of issued share capital.
At that time, shareholders were informed that corporate governance and considers that the Company has this authority would expire on 10th October 2017 but could be complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate renewed by shareholders at any time at a general meeting of the Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys Company.
The Directors consider that the renewal of the authority is business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of Role of the Board shares at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV A management agreement between the Company and JPMF sets out enhances the NAV of the remaining shares and helps to control the the matters over which the Manager has delegated authority.
This discount and its volatility.
Resolution 13 gives the Company includes management of the Companys assets within the guidelines authority to buy back its own issued shares in the market as established by the Board from time to time and the provision of permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority accounting, company secretarial, administration and some limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of 37,725,420 shares representing approximately 14.99% of the of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board Companys issued shares as at 23rd March 2017 being the latest for decision has been approved.
This includes determination and practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy and authority also sets minimum and maximum prices.
its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the If resolution 13 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, shares capital structure, appointment and removal of third party service repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as Treasury providers, review of key investment and financial data and the shares.
The Company does not have authority to re-issue shares Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
from Treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of shares The Board met seven times during the year and additional meetings from Treasury would be at a premium to the prevailing NAV.
Full and timely information is provided The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow pages63 and64.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Further information on Board and will only be made in the market at prices below the meetings and committees can be found on page27.
prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts of remaining shares as and when market conditions are appropriate.
interest and, following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
It Recommendation confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during the The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 13 are likely to promote year under review.
the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, which amount in aggregate to 130,076 shares representing JPMF, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring adherence to approximately 0.1% of the existing issued share capital of the Company.
26 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Board procedures and compliance with applicable rules and training needs are carried out by the Board by means of the regulations.
Board Composition Meetings and Committees The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired by Sarah The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to Bates, all of whom are considered to be independent of the committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown with Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of investment the Directors profiles on pages22 and23.
knowledge, business and financial skills and experience relevant to The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee the Companys business and brief biographical details of each meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were Director are set out on pages22 and23.
seven Board meetings, including a private meeting of the Directors A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of to evaluate the Manager.
In addition, two Audit Committee the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which meetings, two Risk Committee meetings and four Nomination & may be found below.
Sir Alan Collins, the Senior Independent Remuneration Committee meetings were held.
Director, leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chair and is Nomination & available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be Audit Risk Remuneration resolved through discussion with the Chair.
Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Tenure Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Sarah Bates7 2 2 4 Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is 1 Kate Bolsover 62 2 4 required that they be reappointed by shareholders.
Subject to the Simon Bragg 72 2 4 performance evaluation carried out each year, the Board will agree Dr Kevin Carter7 2 2 4 whether it is appropriate for Directors to seek annual Sir Alan Collins 72 2 4 reappointment in accordance with corporate governance best 2 Nadia Manzoor 31 11 practice.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself 1 Retired from the Board on 30th September 2016. necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment but, 2 Joined the Board on 1st June 2016. when making a recommendation, the Board will take into account the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, As well as the formal meetings detailed above, the Board including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
communicates frequently by email or telephone to deal with day to day matters as they arise.
Directors also visited the investment A list of potential conflicts of interest for each Director is management team in New York and spent time with a number of maintained by the Company.
These are considered carefully, taking longer term strategists as well as with senior management, into account the circumstances surrounding them, and, if governance personnel and the dealing desk in JPMAMs offices.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in Board Committees formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for Nomination & Remuneration Committee inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sarah Annual General Meeting.
Bates, consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually The Company has a succession plan in place.
To ensure adequate to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and succession planning and continuity it has been agreed that, barring experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and any unforeseen circumstances, Sarah Bates will retire in July 2017 propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
with a new Director being appointed during 2017.
Kevin Carter will A variety of sources, including external search consultants, may be replace Sarah Bates as Chair at the conclusion of the Companys used to ensure that a wide range of candidates is considered.
relation to the appointment of Nadia Manzoor, the Board engaged a recruitment consultant, Trust Associates, a firm with no other Induction and Training connections to the Company.
Open advertising was not used as part On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all of the process as the use of a recruitment consultant was deemed Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are sufficient.
provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take account industry and other seminars covering issues and developments of the benefits of this during the appointment process.
The Board relevant to investment trusts.
Regular reviews of the Directors remains committed to appointing the most appropriate candidate 27 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken and seeks to ensure that it does not unwittingly exclude any group.
investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 e to the Therefore, no targets have been set against which to report.
Income recording is conducted by the The Directors commissioned Lintstock, a firm of independent Manager and the methodology is reported upon to consultants, to facilitate the evaluation of the Board.
The process the Board within a six monthly independent report involved the completion of questionnaires by the Board.
The on the operations of the Manager.
resulting written report was discussed by Directors under the remit Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
The evaluation of Sections 1158 and 1159 under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years individual Directors is led by the Chair and the Chair is evaluated by commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been the Senior Independent Director.
An externally facilitated Board obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility evaluation was conducted by Lintstock in respect of the Companys criteria is monitored on a regular basis by the year ended 31st December 2014.
The next Board evaluation to be Manager, who reports on a monthly basis to the Board on the Companys continuing compliance.
externally facilitated will be in respect of the Companys year ending 31st December 2017.
The Board is required to be made fully aware of any significant The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with recommendations to the Board as and when required.
the preparation of the financial statements.
Audit Committee As a result of the work performed, the Committee has concluded The Audit Committee, chaired by Simon Bragg, consists of all the that the Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2016, Directors, except the Chair of the Board, and meets at least twice taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides each year.
The Chair of the Board attends by invitation of the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Committee.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that they position, performance, business model and strategy, and has have recent and relevant financial expertise and the requisite skills reported on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions in and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page33.
The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the Companys The Audit Committee also examines the effectiveness of the compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the request Companys risk management and internal control systems, receives of the Board, the Audit Committee provides confirmation to the information from the Managers compliance department and also Board as to how it has discharged its responsibilities so that the reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost Board may ensure that information presented to it is fair, balanced effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external and understandable, together with details of how it has done so.
In the Directors opinion the auditor is independent.
During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility for making ended 31st December 2016, the Audit Committee considered the recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and removal following significant issues, in particular those communicated by of the external auditor.
Representatives of the Companys auditor the auditor during its reporting: attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts were considered and also engage with Directors Significant issue How the issue was addressed as and when required.
Having reviewed the performance of the Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in external auditor, including assessing the quality of work, timing of and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed communications and work with the Manager, the Committee investments in note 1 to the accounts.
The Company has considered it appropriate to recommend its reappointment.
The appointed BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Board supported this recommendation which will be put to Limited BNY as its depositary.
BNY has appointed shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Companys current tenure of the external auditor dates from 10th August 2006. custodian.
BNY remains responsible for the The Board opened the external auditor position up to tender in 2015 oversight of the custody of the Companys assets.
and three firms, including the incumbent, pitched for the position.
Calculation of The management and performance fees are Based upon the presentations, the Board approved the continuing management and calculated in accordance with the Investment appointment of Deloitte as auditor to the Company.
The Board reviews Risk Committee controls reports, expense schedules and the performance fee calculation.
The Risk Committee, chaired by Sir Alan Collins, consists of all the Directors and meets at least twice each year.
The Committee discusses the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance and 28 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 strategy, taking into account the current and prospective shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through the macroeconomic and financial environment.
It further reviews the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page69.
Companys key risks and identifies and manages any new risks that The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in time to arise during the year.
Finally, the Committee reviews compliance give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual with the Companys investment restrictions and guidelines.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via the Terms of Reference Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and address shown on page69.
Risk Committee have written terms of reference which define clearly Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be their respective responsibilities, copies of which are available on the published on the Company website shortly after the Annual General Companys website and for inspection on request at the Companys Meeting.
registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Risk Management and Internal Control Going Concern The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least The Directors believe that having considered the Companys annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of investment objective see page 18, risk management policies see risk management and internal control and to report to shareholders pages 55 to 60, capital management policies and procedures see that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, page 61, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure projections which the Board has identified to include business, financial, that the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial operational, compliance and risk management.
structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk these reasons, the Directors consider it appropriate to continue to management and internal control which is designed to safeguard the adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure Companys financial statements.
They have not identified any that financial information used within the business, or published, is material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to manage over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business these financial statements.
objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material misstatement or loss.
Relations with Shareholders Since investment management, custody of assets and all The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMorgan Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding and its associates, the Companys system of risk management and of the Companys activities and performance and reports formally to internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and by JPMorgan and its associates, including the operating controls Accounts and the Half Year Report.
This is supplemented by the established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net objectives.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating asset value of the Companys shares.
and managing the significant risks faced by the Company see Principal Risks on pages20 and21.
The Company does not have an All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to attend internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and department of JPMF which reports any material failings or representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet with weaknesses.
This arrangement is kept under review.
The key shareholders and answer questions.
In addition, a presentation is elements designed to provide effective internal control are as given by the investment manager who reviews the Companys follows: performance.
During the year the investment management team, JPMF and the Companys brokers held regular discussions with larger Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the shareholders.
The Directors are made aware of their views.
The Chair Board of key investment and financial data, including management further writes to the Companys largest shareholders each year to accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and offer a meeting with herself and other members of the Board, with or performance comparisons.
without representatives from the Manager.
The Chair met Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a independently with shareholders in 2016.
The Chair and Directors manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct make themselves available as and when required to address Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
29 Governance continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Management Systems The Managers system of risk management environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the and internal control includes organisational agreements which Board.
Details on social and environmental issues are included in clearly define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control the Strategic Report on page20.
These are monitored by JPMorgans Corporate Governance Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance with JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to its FCA rules and reports to the Board.
As part of its commitment to delivering superior Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the investment performance to clients, it expects and encourages the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
companies in which it invests to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance and best business practice.
JPMAM examines The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys the share structure and voting structure of the companies in which it system of risk management and internal control by monitoring the invests, as well as the board balance, oversight functions and operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis of JPMAMs associates as follows: proxy voting and engagement activity.
the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms of the Proxy Voting management agreement and receives regular reports from JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it JPMorgans Compliance department: would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a the Board reviews a report, which is also independently reviewed, prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on reasonable on the internal controls and the operations of its custodian, judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of clients.
So JPMorgan Chase Bank: far as is practicable, JPMAM will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which it is invested.
the Board reviews every six months a report from the Companys Depositary, BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited, which Stewardship Engagement summarises the activities performed by the Depositary during the JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients reporting period: and as a major asset owner.
the Board reviews every six months an independent report on the JPMAM is a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment, an internal controls and the operations of JPMFs investment trust initiative of the UN Secretary-General and supports the principles of department.
We believe that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk of our clients.
management and internal control for the year ended 31st December 2016, and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are Accounts.
available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: During the course of its review of the system of risk management http: www.
and internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions By order of the Board has not been considered appropriate.
Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Funds Limited, Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Company Secretary The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The 24th March 2017 following information in italics is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social and 30 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT additional fee of 2,000 per role.
The fees remain unchanged since Introduction 1st January 2015.
The Board presents the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2016 which has been prepared in accordance The Companys Articles of Association stipulate that aggregate fees with the requirements of Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006. must not exceed 225,000 per annum.
Any increase in this maximum aggregate amount requires both Board and shareholder The law requires the Companys auditor to audit certain of the approval.
Where disclosures have been audited they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is included in their report The Company has no Chief Executive Officer and no employees and on pages34to38.
therefore there was no consultation of employees, and there is no employee comparative data to provide, in relation to the setting of the remuneration policy for Directors.
Directors Remuneration Policy The law requires that the Directors Remuneration Policy is subject The Company has not sought shareholder views on its remuneration to a triennial binding vote.
However, the Board has resolved that for policy.
The Nomination Committee considers any comments good governance purposes, the policy vote will be put to received from shareholders on remuneration policy on an ongoing shareholders every year.
Accordingly a resolution to approve the basis and will take account of these views if appropriate.
policy will be put to shareholders at the 2017 Annual General The Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
The policy, subject to the vote, is set out in full below and terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in is currently in force.
formal letters of appointment which are available for review at the The Boards policy for this and subsequent years is that Directors Companys Annual General Meeting and the Companys registered fees should properly reflect the time spent by the Directors on the office.
Details of the Boards policy on tenure are set out on page27.
Companys business and should be at a level to ensure that candidates of a high calibre are recruited to the Board.
The roles of Directors Remuneration Policy Implementation Chairmen of the Board, Audit Committee, Risk Committee and the The Directors Remuneration Report is subject to an annual advisory Senior Independent Director are paid higher fees than other vote and therefore an ordinary resolution to approve this report will Directors, reflecting the greater time commitment involved in be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
There have been no changes to the policy compared with the year The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, comprising all ended 31st December 2015 and no changes are proposed for the Directors, reviews fees on a regular basis and makes year ending 31st December 2017. recommendations to the Board as and when appropriate.
Reviews At the Annual General Meeting held on 11th May 2016, of votes cast, are based on information provided by the Manager, and includes 99.8% of votes cast were in favour of or granted discretion to the research carried out by third parties on the level of fees paid to the Chair who voted in favour of both the remuneration policy and the Directors of the Companys peers and within the investment trust remuneration report and 0.2% voted against.
Votes withheld were industry generally.
The involvement of remuneration consultants the equivalent of less than 0.1% of votes cast.
has not been deemed necessary as part of this review.
Details of the implementation of the Companys remuneration policy All of the Directors are non-executive.
There are no performanceare given below.
No advice from remuneration consultants was related elements to their fees and the Company does not operate received during the year under review.
any type of incentive, share scheme, award or pension scheme and therefore no Directors receive bonus payments or pension Single total figure of remuneration contributions from the Company or hold options to acquire shares in the Company.
Directors are not granted exit payments and are The single total figure of remuneration for the Board as a whole for not provided with compensation for loss of office.
No other the year ended 31st December 2016 was 178,446.
The single total payments are made to Directors, other than the reimbursement of figure of remuneration for each Director is detailed below together reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.
with the prior year comparative.
In the year under review, Directors fees were paid at the following There are no performance targets in place for the Directors of the rates: Chair43,000: Audit Committee Chairman 34,500 and Company and there are no benefits for any of the Directors which 28,500 for other Directors.
The roles of Senior Independent will vest in the future.
There are no benefits, pension, bonus, long Director and Chairman of the Risk Committee both attract an term incentive plans, exit payments or arrangements in place on which to report.
31 Governance continued DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 1 1 Single total figure table Directors Shareholdings 2016 2015 There are no requirements pursuant to the Companys Articles of Taxable Taxable Association for the Directors to own shares in the Company.
The 2 2 Fees expenses Total Fees expenses Total Directors beneficial shareholdings are detailed below.
The Directors Directors Name have no other share interests or share options in the Company and no share schemes are available.
Other subject headings for the single figure table as prescribed Sir Alan Collins 5,493 5,493 by regulation are not included because there is nothing to disclose in relation thereto.
Nadia Manzoor nil nil 2 Taxable travel and subsistence expenses incurred in attending Board and Committee 1 meetings.
3 Retired from the Board on 30th September 2016.
All of the holdings of the Directors are beneficial.
Since the year 4 Joined the Board on 1st June 2016. end, Simon Braggs beneficial holding has increased by 1,018 ordinary shares.
Expenditure by the Company on remuneration and 1 A graph showing the Companys share price total return compared distributions to shareholders with its benchmark index, the S&P 500 Index expressed in sterling Year ended total returns terms, over the last eight years is shown below: 31st December 2016 2015 Eight Year Ordinary Share Price and Benchmark Total Returns to 31st December 2016 Remuneration paid to all Directors 178,446 164,500 350 Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend 12,658,000 10,448,000 300 Share repurchases 54,144,000 15,176,000 250 Percentage of remuneration paid to Directors of Shareholders funds 0.02% 0.02% 200 1 Management and performance fees paid to JPMF in 2016 were 4,545,000 2015: 150 4,266,000, or 0.46% 2015: 0.52% of Shareholders funds.
Please refer to page24 for more details.
100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 A table showing the total remuneration for the Chair over the five years ended 31st December 2016 is below: Source: Morningstar.
Remuneration for the Chair over the five years Benchmark total return.
ended 31st December 2016 Year ended For and on behalf of the Board 31st December Fees Sarah Bates Chair 2016 43,000 2015 43,000 24th March 2017 2014 37,500 2013 37,500 2012 37,500 32 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and and integrity of the website maintained by the Manager is, so far as accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
it relates to the Company, the responsibility of the Manager.
The work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that have prepare the financial statements in accordance with United occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom website.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the legislation, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that, taken as a whole, the annual report and accounts are Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also fair, balanced and understandable, provide the information responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Strategic Report, necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, Statement of Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration performance, business model and strategy and that they give a true Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the total Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on return or loss of the Company for that period.
In order to provide pages 22 and 23 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: these confirmations, and in preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable consistently: law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable position and return or loss of the Company: and and prudent: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been performance of the business and the position of the Company, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties explained in the financial statements: and that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual report and it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable business and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the strategy and business model of the Company.
and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
The Board also confirms that it is satisfied that the Strategic Report The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records and Directors Report include a fair review of the development and that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions performance of the business, and the position of the Company, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the that the Company faces.
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection For and on behalf of the Board of fraud and other irregularities.
Sarah Bates The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, Chair which is maintained by the Companys Manager.
The maintenance 24th March 2017 33 Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Opinion on financial statements of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st December 2016 and of its return for the year then ended: the Companys financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Statement of Changes in Equity: the Statement of Financial Position: the Statement of Cash Flows: and the related notes 1 to 25.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Valuation and ownership of investments Recognition of investment income Calculation of performance fees All risks within this report are in line with prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 9.85 million which was determined on the basis of 1% of net asset value.
Scoping All audit work for the company was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Significant changes in our approach There have been no significant changes to our audit approach since the prior year.
34 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
of accounting contained within note 1 a to the financial statements However, because not all future events or conditions can be and the Directors statement on the long term viability of the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys Company contained within the Directors Report on Page 21. ability to continue as a going concern.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 20 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 20 and 21 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 1 a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 21 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils We confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those of the Company and we have fulfilled our other ethical standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation and ownership of fixed asset investments Risk description The fixed asset investments of the Company at year end were 1,068.8 million 2015: 885.4 million.
There is a risk that investments within the portfolio may not be actively traded and the prices quoted may not be reflective of fair value, or that they may not represent the property of the Company.
35 Independent Auditors Report continued How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We reviewed and assessed the Global Custody SOC1 controls report of JPMorgan Chase Bank over the valuation of investments and evaluated the design and implementation of the controls in place.
We agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing source.
We challenged the Manager and Directors regarding their assessment of the portfolio pricing and liquidity.
We reviewed the completeness and appropriateness of disclosures in relation to fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
We agreed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year end to the confirmation received directly from the independent custodian.
Key observations No misstatements were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance in regards to the valuation of the portfolio.
We also observed the key controls in the latest available SOC1 report and noted that control 10 page 62 of the latest report has been assessed as designed and implemented effectively.
No deviations were noted in testing the operating effectiveness.
Calculation of performance fees Risk description There is no performance fee payable in the current period 2015: write-back 0.5 million.
Performance fees or the performance fee offset is calculated at the rate of 10% of the difference between the cum-income debt at par net asset value total return and the total return of the S&P 500 Index.
As this is a complex calculation, there is a risk the performance fee may be calculated incorrectly and not in line with the IMA.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We re-performed the calculation of the performance fee to confirm that no performance fee was payable in the current period as per the terms of the signed investment management agreement.
To confirm that performance fee calculation has been subject to Board approval, we have obtained and reviewed the minutes for all Board and Committee meetings in the year ended 31st December 2016.
Key observations We have not identified any misstatements in the calculation of the performance fee for the year end 31st December 2016.
Furthermore we have reviewed the Board minutes for the year then ended and confirmed this calculation has been subject to Board approval.
Revenue Recognition: completeness of investment income Risk description Dividends from fixed asset investments of 20.5 million 2015: 17.8 million are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
Dividends are accounted for as revenue, except where, in the opinion of management and the board, the dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is treated as a return of capital.
There is a risk that revenue is incomplete or that it is incorrectly allocated between revenue and capital accounts.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We evaluated the design and implementation of the controls over revenue recognition, completeness and allocation.
For a sample of corporate actions and special dividends received, we challenged the Managers rationale for the allocation between revenue and capital against the requirements of Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts the SORP and agreed details of the dividend to a third party source to evidence the nature of the dividend.
We developed an expectation of the dividends received for the year using market yield to assess the reasonableness of the dividends recorded.
To test the completeness of investment income, for a sample of investments held in the year, we agreed the ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends declared, obtained from an independent pricing source, and traced these to the dividend entitlement report to ensure that investment income has been recorded appropriately.
36 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Key observations No misstatements were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance in regards to the completeness of dividend income.
Accounting policies in relation to revenue recognition were found to be in line with FRS 102, the SORP and industry peers.
We also observed the key controls in the latest available SOC1 report and noted that control 12 page 72 of the latest report has been assessed as designed and implemented effectively.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 9.8 million 2015: 8.17 million, which is 1% 2015: 1% of net assets.
Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for investors and is a key driver of shareholder value.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 50,000 2015: 50,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit There were no changes to the scope of our audit since the prior year.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As part of our audit we assessed the controls in place at the administrator who prepares the financial statement of the Company by reviewing a controls report over their activities.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
37 Independent Auditors Report continued We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, London, United Kingdom 24th March 2017 38 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Financial Statements STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 2016 2015 1 1 1 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total Notes 000 000 000 000 000 000 Gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 3 239,839 239,839 33,331 33,331 2 Net foreign currency losses 12,852 12,852 3,845 3,845 Income from investments 4 20,533 20,533 17,747 17,747 Interest receivable4 77 77 34 34 Gross return 20,610 226,987 247,597 17,781 29,586 47,367 Management fee 5 909 3,636 4,545 853 3,413 4,266 Performance fee write back5 507 507 Other administrative expenses 6 802 802 747 747 Net return on ordinary activities before finance costs and taxation 18,899 223,351 242,250 16,181 26,680 42,861 Finance costs 7 803 3,213 4,016 782 3,125 3,907 Net return on ordinary activities before taxation 18,096 220,138 238,234 15,399 23,555 38,954 Taxation 8 2,916 2,916 2,488 2,488 Net return on ordinary activities after taxation 15,180 220,138 235,318 12,911 23,555 36,466 Return per share 10 5.70p 82.66p 88.36p 4.64p 8.47p 13.11p 1 Relevant figures have been restated due to liquidity funds being reclassified as cash equivalents.
2 Includes gains and losses on forward foreign currency contracts which are used to hedge the currency risk in respect of the geared portion of the portfolio.
Details of the Companys hedging strategy are given in note 23 a i on page 55.
The dividends payable in respect of the year ended 31st December 2016 amount to 5.0p 2015: 4.0p per share, costing 13,043,000 2015: 11,051,000.
Details of dividends paid and proposed are given in note 9 on page 48.
All revenue and capital items in the above statement derive from continuing operations.
No operations were acquired or discontinued in the year.
The Total column of this statement is the profit and loss account of the Company and the Revenue and Capital columns represent supplementary information prepared under guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies.
The net return on ordinary activities after taxation represents the profit per share for the year and also the total comprehensive income.
The notes on pages 44 to 61 form an integral part of these financial statements.
39 Financial Statements continued STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 Called up Capital share Share redemption Capital Revenue 1 1 capital premium reserve reserves reserve Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 31st December 2014 14,052 150,172 8,151 613,646 18,129 804,150 Issue of ordinary shares net of costs to the market 30 1,678 1,708 Repurchase of shares into Treasury 15,176 15,176 Net return on ordinary activities 23,555 12,911 36,466 Dividends paid in the year 10,448 10,448 At 31st December 2015 14,082 151,850 8,151 622,025 20,592 816,700 Repurchase of shares into Treasury 54,144 54,144 Net return on ordinary activities 220,138 15,180 235,318 Dividends paid in the year 12,658 12,658 At 31st December 2016 14,082 151,850 8,151 788,019 23,114 985,216 1 These reserves form the distributable reserves of the Company and may be used to fund distribution of profits to investors via dividend payments.
40 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31ST DECEMBER 2016 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Fixed assets Investments held at fair value through profit or loss 11 1,068,848 885,383 Current assets 12 Derivative financial assets 358 939 Debtors 921 923 1 Cash and cash equivalents 10,114 18,789 11,393 20,651 Current liabilities 13 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 558 36,417 Derivative financial liabilities 2,990 Net current assets 10,835 18,756 Total assets less current liabilities 1,079,683 866,627 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 14 94,467 49,927 Net assets 985,216 816,700 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 16 14,082 14,082 Share premium 17 151,850 151,850 Capital redemption reserve 17 8,151 8,151 Capital reserves 17 788,019 622,025 Revenue reserve 17 23,114 20,592 Total shareholders funds 985,216 816,700 Net asset value per share 18 381.0p 295.6p 1 This line item combines the two lines of Investments in liquidity funds held at fair value through profit or loss and Cash and short term deposits in the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2015 into one.
Under FRS 102, liquidity funds are considered cash equivalents as they are held for cash management purposes.
The financial statements on pages 39 to 61 were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors on 24th March 2017 and signed on their behalf by: Simon Bragg Director The notes on pages 44 to 61 form an integral part of these financial statements.
The Companys registration number is 15543.
41 Financial Statements continued STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 2016 2015 Notes 000 000 Net cash outflow from operations before dividends and interest 19 3,234 4,378 Dividends received 17,283 15,041 Interest received 70 33 Overseas tax recovered 354 100 Interest paid 4,020 3,865 Net cash inflow from operating activities 10,453 6,931 Purchases of investments 313,586 354,123 Sales of investments 370,087 377,466 Settlement of forward currency contracts 11,753 2,239 Net cash inflow from investing activities 44,748 21,104 Dividends paid 12,658 10,448 Repayment of bank loans 41,283 6,446 Draw down of bank loans 44,627 10,369 Issue of ordinary shares 1,708 Repurchase of shares into Treasury 54,562 14,758 Net cash outflow from financing activities 63,876 19,575 Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 8,675 8,460 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 18,789 10,329 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 10,114 18,789 Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 8,675 8,460 Cash and cash equivalents consist of: Cash and short term deposits 10 305 Cash held in JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund 10,104 18,484 Total 10,114 18,789 The notes on pages 44 to 61 form an integral part of these financial statements.
42 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2016 1.
Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts the SORP issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The disclosures on going concern on page 29 of the Directors Report form part of these financial statements.
The policies applied in these financial statements are consistent with those applied in the preceding year.
b Valuation of investments The Company has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of financial instruments.
The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of income and capital growth.
The portfolio of financial assets is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy and information is provided internally on that basis to the Companys Board of Directors.
Accordingly, upon initial recognition the investments are designated by the Company as held at fair value through profit or loss.
They are included initially at fair value which is taken to be their cost, excluding expenses incidental to purchases which are written off to capital at the time of acquisition.
Subsequently the investments are valued at fair value, which are quoted bid prices for investments traded in active markets.
For investments which are not traded in active markets, unlisted and restricted investments, the Board takes into account the latest traded prices, other observable market data and asset values based on the latest management accounts.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
c Accounting for reserves Gains and losses on sales of investments including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, realised exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents, realised gains and losses on foreign currency contracts, any performance fee realised, management fee and finance costs allocated to capital and any other capital charges, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Gains and losses on sales of investments.
Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, unrealised gains and losses on forward foreign currency contracts and any performance fee provision, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Investment holding gains and losses.
d Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are included in revenue on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the Board, the dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is included in capital.
Overseas dividends are included gross of any withholding tax.
Special dividends are looked at individually to ascertain the reason behind the payment.
This will determine whether they are treated as income or capital.
Where the Company has elected to receive scrip dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in revenue.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital.
Interest receivable from debt securities together with any premiums or discounts on purchase are allocated to revenue on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective interest rate of those securities.
Deposit interest receivable is taken to revenue on an accruals basis.
43 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Accounting policies continued e Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are allocated wholly to the revenue with the following exceptions: any performance fee is allocated 100% to capital.
the management fee is allocated 20% to revenue and 80% to capital, in line with the Boards expected long term split of revenue and capital return from the Companys investment portfolio.
expenses incidental to the purchase and sale of an investment are charged to capital.
These expenses are commonly referred to as transaction costs and comprise brokerage commission and stamp duty.
Details of transaction costs are given in note 11 on page 49. f Finance costs Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
Finance costs are allocated 20% to revenue and 80% to capital, in line with the Boards expected long term split of revenue and capital return from the Companys investment portfolio.
g Financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents may comprise cash including demand deposits which are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Liquidity funds are considered cash equivalents as they are held for cash management purposes as an alternative to cash.
Forward foreign currency contracts are included in the Statement of Financial Position as derivative financial instruments and are carried at fair value, which is the cost of closing out those contracts.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
Bank loans and debentures are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
They are initially measured at proceeds net of direct issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Interest payable on bank loans is accounted for on an accruals basis in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The amortisation of direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Statement of Comprehensive Income using the effective interest rate method.
Other debtors and creditors do not carry any interest, are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at nominal value, with debtors reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
h Taxation Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid or recovered.
Deferred tax is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable timing differences but deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that taxable profits will be available against which those timing differences can be utilised.
Tax relief is allocated to expenses charged to capital on the marginal basis.
On this basis, if taxable income is capable of being entirely offset by revenue expenses, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital column.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rate which is expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and is measured on an undiscounted basis.
i Value Added Tax VAT Expenses are disclosed inclusive of the related irrecoverable VAT.
Recoverable VAT is calculated using the partial exemption method based on the proportion of zero rated supplies to total supplies.
44 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 j Functional currency The Company is required to identify its functional currency, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Board, having regard to the currency of the Companys share capital and the predominant currency in which its shareholders operate, has determined that sterling is the functional currency.
Sterling is also the currency in which the financial statements are presented.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are converted at actual exchange rates at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities and equity investments held at fair value denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in revenue or capital, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a revenue or capital nature.
k Dividends payable Dividends are included in the financial statements in the year in which they are approved by shareholders.
l Repurchase of shares into Treasury The cost of repurchasing shares into Treasury, including the related stamp duty and transaction costs is charged to capital reserves and dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Where shares held in Treasury are subsequently cancelled, the nominal value of those shares is transferred out of called up share capital and into capital redemption reserve.
Should shares held in Treasury be reissued, the sales proceeds will be treated as a realised profit up to the amount of the purchase price of those shares and will be transferred to capital reserves.
The excess of the sales proceeds over the purchase price will be transferred to share premium.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Companys financial statements on occasion requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the primary financial statements and the accompanying disclosures.
These assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in the current and future periods, depending on circumstance.
The Directors do not believe that any significant accounting judgements or estimates have been applied to this set of financial statements, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 1 2016 2015 000 000 Gains on sales of investments held at fair value through profit or loss based on historical cost 81,561 83,234 Amounts recognised in investment holding gains and losses in the previous year in respect of investments sold during the year 51,898 82,093 Gains on sales of investments based on the carrying value at the previous balance sheet date 29,663 1,141 Net movement in investment holding gains and losses 210,186 32,198 Other capital charges 10 8 Total capital gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 239,839 33,331 1 Relevant figures have been restated due to liquidity funds being reclassified as cash equivalents.
45 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Income 2016 2015 000 000 Income from investments Overseas dividends 20,533 17,747 Interest receivable and similar income Interest from liquidity fund 77 33 Deposit interest 1 Total income 20,610 17,781 5.
Management fee and performance fee 2016 2015 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Management fee 909 3,636 4,545 853 3,413 4,266 Performance fee 507 507 909 3,636 4,545 853 2,906 3,759 Details of the management fee and performance fee are given in the Directors Report on page24.
Other administrative expenses 2016 2015 000 000 Administration expenses 300 258 1 Directors fees 177 165 2 Depository fees 161 157 3 Savings scheme costs 131 135 4 Auditors remuneration for audit services 25 24 5 Auditors remuneration for other services 88 802 747 1 Full disclosure is given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on page 32.
3 Paid to the Manager for marketing and administration of saving scheme products.
5 Comprises the Companys contribution to the review of the Managers control procedures amounting to 5,000 2015: 5,000, plus fees payable for the review of the debenture compliance certificate amounting to 3,000 2015: 3,000.
46 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
Taxation a Analysis of tax charge in the year 2016 2015 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Overseas withholding tax 2,916 2,916 2,488 2,488 Total tax charge for the year 2,916 2,916 2,488 2,488 b Factors affecting the total tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year is lower 2015: lower than the Companys applicable rate of corporation tax for the year of 20.00% 2015: 20.25%.
The factors affecting the total tax charge for the year are as follows: 2016 2015 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Net return on ordinary activities before taxation 18,096 220,138 238,234 15,399 23,555 38,954 Net return on ordinary activities before taxation multiplied by the Companys applicable rate of corporation tax of 20.00% 2015: 20.25% 3,619 44,028 47,647 3,118 4,770 7,888 Effects of: Non taxable overseas dividends 4,140 4,140 3,551 3,551 Non taxable capital gains 45,398 45,398 5,991 5,991 Overseas withholding tax 2,916 2,916 2,488 2,488 Income tax timing difference 1 1 Unrelieved expenses 522 1,370 1,892 433 1,221 1,654 Total tax charge for the year 2,916 2,916 2,488 2,488 c Deferred taxation The Company has an unrecognised deferred tax asset of 13,137,000 2015: 12,207,000 based on a prospective corporation tax rate of 17% 2015: 20%.
The UK Government announced in July 2015 that the corporation tax rate is set to be cut to 19% in 2017 and 18% in 2020.
In March 2016 a further cut to 17% in 2020 was announced.
These reductions in the standard rate of corporation tax were substantively enacted on 15th September 2016 and became effective from 1st January 2017.
The deferred tax asset has arisen due to the cumulative excess of deductible expenses over taxable income.
Given the composition of the Companys portfolio, it is not likely that this asset will be utilised in the foreseeable future and therefore no asset has been recognised in the financial statements.
Given the Companys status as an investment trust company and the intention to continue meeting the conditions required to obtain approval, the Company has not provided for deferred tax on any capital gains or losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
47 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Dividends a Dividends paid and proposed 2016 2015 000 000 Dividends paid Unclaimed dividends refunded to the Company 2 2015 Final dividend of 2.5p 2014: 2.25p 6,728 6,304 2016 Interim dividend of 2.25p 2015: 1.5p 5,932 4,144 Total dividends paid in the year 12,658 10,448 Dividends proposed 2016 Final dividend of 2.75p 2015: 2.5p 7,111 6,907 All dividends paid and declared in the period have been funded from the Revenue Reserve.
The dividend proposed in respect of the year ended 31st December 2015 amounted to 6,907,000.
However the amount paid amounted to 6,728,000 due to shares repurchased after the balance sheet date but prior to the share register record date.
The dividend proposed in respect of the year ended 31st December 2016 is subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the accounting policy of the Company, this dividend will be reflected in the financial statements for the year ending 31st December 2017. b Dividend for the purposes of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158 The requirements of Section 1158 are considered on the basis of dividends declared in respect of the financial year, shown below.
The revenue available for distribution by way of dividend for the year is 15,180,000 2015: 12,911,000.
Return per share 2016 2015 000 000 Revenue return 15,180 12,911 Capital return 220,138 23,555 Total return 235,318 36,466 Weighted average number of shares in issue during the year 266,333,049 278,231,109 Revenue return per share 5.70p 4.64p Capital return per share 82.66p 8.47p Total return per share 88.36p 13.11p 48 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
Under FRS 102, liquidity funds are classified as cash equivalents.
Transaction costs on purchases during the year amounted to 104,000 2015: 112,000 and on sales during the year amounted to 134,000 2015: 124,000.
These costs comprise mainly brokerage commission and stamp duty.
During the year, prior year investment holding gains amounting to 51,898,000 have been transferred to gains on sales of investments as disclosed in note 17.
At the current and comparative year end, the Company held 10% or more of a class of the issued share capital of the following company, which is valued in the accounts at the Companys share of net assets: 2016 2015 %% Kane Holdings 15.8 15.8 The Company does not exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the above company, which is therefore not considered to be an associated company.
49 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Current assets 2016 2015 000 000 Derivative financial assets Forward foreign currency contracts 358 939 2016 2015 000 000 Debtors Securities sold awaiting settlement 11 32 Dividends and interest receivable 807 823 Overseas tax recoverable 19 16 Other debtors 84 52 921 923 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of debtors approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances, short term deposits and liquidity funds.
The carrying amount of these represents their fair value.
Current liabilities 2016 2015 000 000 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Securities purchased awaiting settlement 105 Repurchases of Companys own shares awaiting settlement 418 Bank loan ING 35,489 Loan interest payable 52 28 Debenture interest payable 282 339 Other creditors and accruals 119 143 558 36,417 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of creditors falling due within one year approximates to their fair value.
The 35 million two year floating rate debt facility with ING Bank, had an interest rate of LIBOR as quoted in the market for the loan period, plus a margin of 0.80%, plus mandatory costs.
Any undrawn amounts under the facility attracted an interest rate of 0.25%.
The facility was subject to covenants and restrictions which are customary for a facility of this nature, all of which were met during the prior year.
This facility expired on 2nd December 2016.
2016 2015 000 000 Derivative financial liabilities Forward foreign currency contracts 2,990 50 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2016 2015 000 000 Bank loan National Australia Bank 8,093 Bank loan Scotiabank 36,418 50,000,000 6.875% debenture June 2018 49,956 49,927 94,467 49,927 The 50 million debenture, which the Company has in issue, carries a fixed interest rate of 6.875% until the repayment date in June 2018.
The debenture is secured by a floating charge over the assets of the Company.
The 25 million five year floating rate debt facility with NAB, has an interest rate of LIBOR as quoted in the market for the loan period, plus a margin of 1.05%, plus mandatory costs.
Any undrawn amounts attract a commitment fee of 0.32%.
The facility is subject to covenants and restrictions which are customary for a facility of this nature, all of which have been met during the year.
This facility expires in April 2020.
During the year the Company entered into a new 40 million two year floating rate debt facility with Scotiabank which has an interest rate of LIBOR as quoted in the market for the loan period, plus a margin of 0.95%, plus mandatory costs.
Any undrawn amounts under the facility attract an interest rate of 0.35% if less than 50% of the facility is drawn or 0.25% if more than 50% of the facility is drawn.
This facility expires in November 2018.
Provisions for liabilities and charges 2016 2015 000 000 Performance fee payable Opening balance 507 Performance fee for the year 507 Further details of the performance fee can be found in the Directors report on page24.
Called up share capital 2016 2015 000 000 Ordinary shares allotted and fully paid: Opening balance of 276,283,026 2015: 281,033,910 shares excluding shares held in Treasury 13,814 14,052 Issue of nil 2015: 600,000 ordinary shares of 5p each to the market 30 Repurchase of 17,709,623 2015: 5,350,884 shares into Treasury 885 268 Subtotal of 258,573,403 2015: 276,283,026 shares of 5p each excluding shares held in Treasury 12,929 13,814 23,060,507 2015: 5,350,884 shares held in Treasury 1,153 268 Closing Balance of 281,633,910 2015: 281,633,910 shares of 5p each including shares held in Treasury 14,082 14,082 During the year, 17,709,623 shares of 5p were repurchased from the market into Treasury at an average price of 304.9p per share, for a total net consideration of 54,144,000.
Further details of transactions in the Companys shares are given in the Business Review on page 19.
51 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
Capital and reserves 1 Capital reserves Gains and Investment Called up Capital losses on holding share Share redemption sales of gains and Revenue 1 capital premium reserve investments losses reserve Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Opening balance 14,082 151,850 8,151 421,642 200,383 20,592 816,700 Transfer of prior period unrealised gain on 2 liquidity 501 501 Net foreign currency losses on cash and cash equivalents 7,532 7,532 Gains on sales of investments based on the carrying value at the previous balance sheet date 29,663 29,663 Net movement in investment holding gains and losses 210,186 210,186 Transfer on disposal of investments 51,898 51,898 Unrealised gain on forward foreign currency contracts 358 358 Unrealised losses on forward foreign currency contracts from prior period now realised 2,051 2,051 Repurchase of shares into Treasury 54,144 54,144 Unrealised currency losses on loans 855 855 Realised currency losses on repayment of loans 4,823 4,823 Transfer on loans repaid in period 2,980 2,980 Management fee and finance costs charged to capital 6,849 6,849 Other capital charges 10 10 Dividends paid in the year 12,658 12,658 Retained revenue for the year 15,180 15,180 Closing balance 14,082 151,850 8,151 425,315 362,704 23,114 985,216 1 These reserves form the distributable reserves of the Company and may be used to fund distribution of profits to investors via dividend payments.
2 Transfer of opening liquidity fund unrealised loss between reserves as a result of the reclassification of liquidity holdings from investments to cash equivalents.
Net asset value per share 2016 2015 Net assets 000 985,216 816,700 Number of shares in issue 258,573,403 276,283,026 Net asset value per share 381.0p 295.6p 52 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
Reconciliation of net return on ordinary activities before finance costs and taxation to net cash outflow from operations before dividends and interest 2016 2015 000 000 Net return on ordinary activities before finance costs and taxation 242,250 42,861 Less capital return on ordinary activities before finance costs and taxation 223,351 26,680 Increase in accrued income and other debtors 16 115 Decrease increase in accrued expenses 25 11 Management and performance fee charged to capital 3,636 3,548 Overseas withholding tax 3,273 2,592 Dividends received 17,283 15,041 Interest received 70 33 Realised loss on foreign exchange transactions 46 435 Realised gain on liquidity fund and time deposits 2,216 1,194 Net cash outflow from operations before dividends and interest 3,234 4,378 20.
Contingent liabilities and capital commitments At the balance sheet date there were no contingent liabilities or capital commitments 2015: same.
Related party transactions Details of the management contract are set out in the Directors Report on page 24.
The management fee payable to the Manager for the year was 4,545,000 2015: 4,266,000 of which nil 2015: nil was outstanding at the year end.
The performance fee for the year was nil 2015: 507,000 write back and nil 2015: nil was outstanding at the year end.
During the year 131,000 2015: 135,000, including VAT, was payable to the Manager for the marketing and administration of savings scheme products, of which nil 2015: nil was outstanding at the year end.
Included in administration expenses in note 6 on page 46 are safe custody fees amounting to 9,000 2015: 8,000 payable to JPMorgan Chase of which 2,000 2015: 1,000 was outstanding at the year end.
The Manager may carry out some of its dealing transactions through group subsidiaries.
These transactions are carried out at arms length.
The commission payable to JPMorgan Securities Limited for the year was nil 2015: nil of which nil 2015: nil was outstanding at the year end.
The Company also holds cash in the JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund, which is managed by JPMorgan.
At the year end this was valued at 10.1 million 2015: 18.5 million.
Income amounting to 77,000 2015: 33,000 was receivable during the year of which 7,000 2015: nil was outstanding at the year end.
Handling charges on dealing transactions amounting to 10,000 2015: 8,000 were payable to JPMorgan Chase during the year of which 2,000 2015: 1,000 was outstanding at the year end.
At the year end, total cash of 10,000 2015: 305,000 was held with JPMorgan Chase.
A net amount of interest of nil 2015: 1,000 was receivable by the Company during the year from JPMorgan Chase of which nil 2015: nil was outstanding at the year end.
Full details of Directors remuneration and shareholdings can be found on page 32 and in note 6 on page 46.
53 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Disclosures regarding financial instruments measured at fair value The Companys financial instruments within the scope of FRS 102 that are held at fair value comprise its investment portfolio and derivative financial instruments.
The investments are categorised into a hierarchy consisting of the following three levels: 1 The unadjusted quoted price in an active market for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price for an identical asset in an active market.
Quoted in an active market in this context means quoted prices are readily and regularly available and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted price is usually the current bid price.
2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable i. e. : developed using market data for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly When quoted prices are unavailable, the price of a recent transaction for an identical asset provides evidence of fair value as long as there has not been a significant change in economic circumstances or a significant lapse of time since the transaction took place.
If the entity can demonstrate that the last transaction price is not a good estimate of fair value e. g. because it reflects the amount that an entity would receive or pay in a forced transaction, involuntary liquidation or distress sale, that price is adjusted.
3 Inputs are unobservable i. e. : for which market data is unavailable for the asset or liability If the market for the asset is not active and recent transactions of an identical asset on their own are not a good estimate of fair value, an entity estimates the fair value by using a valuation technique.
The objective of using a valuation technique is to estimate what the transaction price would have been on the measurement date in an arms length exchange motivated by normal business considerations.
Categorisation within the hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset.
Details of the valuation techniques used by the Company are given in note 1 b on page 43.
The following table sets out the fair value measurements using the FRS 102 hierarchy at 31st December.
2 Includes investment in Kane Holdings which had a market value at 31st December 2016 of 1,448,000 2015: 1,214,000.
There were no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 during the year 2015: nil.
54 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
Financial instruments exposure to risk and risk management policies As an investment trust, the Company invests in equities and other securities for the long term so as to secure its investment objective stated on the Features page.
In pursuing this objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of financial risks that could result in a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction in the profits available for dividends.
These financial risks include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Directors policy for managing these risks is set out below.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing the risks and the methods used to measure the risks that are set out below, have not changed from those applying in the comparative year.
The Companys classes of financial instruments are as follows: investments in US equity shares, which are held in accordance with the Companys investment objective: cash held within a liquidity fund: short term debtors, creditors and cash arising directly from its operations: a debenture issued by the Company and bank loans, the purpose of which is to finance the Companys operations: forward foreign currency contracts, the purpose of which is to manage the currency risk arising from the Companys investment activities.
a Market risk The fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument held by the Company may fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
This market risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
Information to enable an evaluation of the nature and extent of these three elements of market risk is given in parts i and iii of this note, together with sensitivity analyses where appropriate.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks and these policies have remained unchanged from those applying in the comparative year.
The Manager assesses the exposure to market risk when making each investment decision and monitors the overall level of market risk on the whole of the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
i Currency risk The majority of the Companys assets and income are denominated in US dollars.
Sterling is the Companys functional currency and the currency in which it reports.
As a result, movements in exchange rates will affect the sterling value of those items.
Management of currency risk The Manager monitors the Companys exposure to foreign currencies on a daily basis and reports to the Board, which meets on at least five occasions each year.
The Manager measures the risk to the Company of the foreign currency exposure by considering the effect on the Companys net asset value and income of a movement in the rates of exchange to which the Companys assets, liabilities, income and expenses are exposed.
The Company has a 50 million debenture in issue which is repayable in June 2018.
It is the Companys policy to hedge the currency risk in respect of this geared portion of the portfolio using three month forward contracts.
At 31st December 2016 the Company held a number of open contracts with Citibank, Merrill Lynch, State Street and Deutsche Bank.
The net effect of these contracts is to purchase 50 million for settlement in $ and the latest settlement date of these contracts was 25th January 2017.
Upon maturity, these contracts were rolled over with Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, HSBC and BNP and the settlement date of these new contracts is 26th April 2017.
Income denominated in foreign currencies is converted to sterling on receipt.
The Company does not use financial instruments to mitigate the currency exposure in the period between the time that income is included in the financial statements and its receipt.
55 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
Financial instruments exposure to risk and risk management policies continued a Market risk continued i Currency risk continued Foreign currency exposure The fair value of the Companys monetary items that have foreign currency exposure at 31st December are shown below.
Where the Companys equity investments which are not monetary items are priced in a foreign currency, they have been included separately in the analysis so as to show the overall level of exposure.
2016 2015 USD Euro Total USD Euro Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current assets 11,295 3 11,298 19,359 3 19,362 Creditors 105 105 2,051 2,051 Bank loans 44,511 44,511 35,489 35,489 Foreign currency exposure on net monetary items 33,321 3 33,318 18,181 3 18,178 Investments held at fair value through profit or loss 1,068,848 1,068,848 885,383 885,383 Total net foreign currency exposure 1,035,527 3 1,035,530 867,202 3 867,205 The above year end amounts are broadly representative of the exposure to foreign currency risk during the current and comparative year.
Foreign currency sensitivity The following table illustrates the sensitivity of return after taxation for the year and net assets with regard to the Companys monetary financial assets and financial liabilities and exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis is based on the Companys monetary currency financial instruments held at each balance sheet date and the income receivable in foreign currency and assumes a 20% 2015: 10% appreciation or depreciation in sterling against the US Dollar which is considered to be a reasonable illustration based on the volatility of exchange rates during the year.
2016 2015 If sterling If sterling If sterling If sterling strengthens weakens strengthens weakens by 20% by 20% by 10% by 10% 000 000 000 000 Statement of Comprehensive Income return after taxation Revenue return 4,122 4,122 1,778 1,778 Capital return 6,664 6,664 1,818 1,818 Total return after taxation for the year 2,542 2,542 40 40 Net assets 2,542 2,542 40 40 In the opinion of the Directors, the above sensitivity analysis is broadly representative of the whole year.
56 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 ii Interest rate risk Interest rate movements may affect the level of income receivable on cash deposits and the liquidity fund.
The Companys exposure to floating interest rates, giving cash flow interest rate risk when rates are reset, is as follows: 2016 2015 000 000 Exposure to floating interest rates Cash and short term deposits 10 305 JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund 10,104 18,484 Bank loans 44,511 35,489 Total exposure 34,397 16,700 Interest receivable on cash balances, or paid on overdrafts, is at a margin below or above LIBOR respectively 2015: same.
The target interest earned on the JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund is the 7 day $ London Interbank Bid Rate.
Details of the bank loans are given in notes 13 and 14 on pages 50 and 51.
Interest rate sensitivity The following table illustrates the sensitivity of the return after taxation for the year and net assets to a 0.5% 2015: 0.5% increase or decrease in interest rates in regards to the Companys monetary financial assets and financial liabilities.
This level of change is considered to be a reasonable illustration based on observation of current market conditions.
The sensitivity analysis is based on the Companys monetary financial instruments held at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant.
2016 2015 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% Increase Decrease Increase Decrease in rate in rate in rate in rate 000 000 000 000 Statement of Comprehensive Income return after taxation Revenue return 6 6 58 58 Capital return 178 178 142 142 Total return after taxation 172 172 84 84 Net assets 172 172 84 84 In the opinion of the Directors, this sensitivity analysis may not be representative of the Companys future exposure to interest rate changes due to fluctuations in the level of cash balances, cash held in the liquidity fund and amounts drawn down on the Companys loan facilities.
iii Other price risk Other price risk includes changes in market prices, other than those arising from interest rate risk, which may affect the value of equity investments.
57 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
Financial instruments exposure to risk and risk management policies continued a Market risk continued iii Other price risk continued Management of other price risk The Board considers on a regular basis the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk associated with particular industry sectors.
The investment management team has responsibility for monitoring the portfolio, which is selected in accordance with the Companys investment objectives and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
Other price risk exposure The Companys total exposure to other changes in market prices at 31st December comprises its holdings in equity investments as follows: 2016 2015 000 000 Equity investments held at fair value through profit or loss 1,068,848 885,383 The above data is broadly representative of the exposure to other price risk during the current and comparative year.
Other price risk sensitivity The following table illustrates the sensitivity of the return after taxation for the year and net assets to an increase or decrease of 10% 2015: 10% in the market values.
The sensitivity analysis is based on the Companys equities, adjusting for changes in the management fee but with all other variables held constant.
2016 2015 10% 10% 10% 10% Increase in Decrease in Increase in Decrease in fair value fair value fair value fair value 000 000 000 000 Statement of Comprehensive Income return after taxation Revenue return 107 107 89 89 Capital return 106,457 106,457 88,184 88,184 Total return after taxation 106,350 106,350 88,095 88,095 Net assets 106,350 106,350 88,095 88,095 b Liquidity risk This is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
Management of the risk Liquidity risk is not significant as the Companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable securities, which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
58 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Liquidity risk exposure Contractual maturities of the financial liabilities at the year end, based on the earliest date on which payment can be required are as follows: 2016 More than Three three months months but less than One year or less one year or more Total 000 000 000 000 Creditors: Securities purchased awaiting settlement 105 105 Other creditors and accruals 119 119 Bank loans, including interest 262 642 45,519 46,423 Debenture, including interest 3,438 51,718 55,156 486 4,080 97,237 101,803 The liabilities shown above represent future contractual payments and therefore may differ from the amounts shown in the Statement of Financial Position.
2015 More than Three three months months but not more More than or less than one year one year Total 000 000 000 000 Repurchases of Companys own shares awaiting settlement 418 418 Other creditors and accruals 143 143 Bank loan, including interest 35,592 35,592 Debenture stock, including interest 3,438 55,156 58,594 Forward foreign currency contracts 2,990 2,990 39,143 3,438 55,156 97,737 c Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the failure of the counterparty to a transaction to discharge its obligations under that transaction could result in loss to the Company.
Management of credit risk Portfolio dealing The Company invests in markets that operate DVP Delivery Versus Payment settlement.
The process of DVP mitigates the risk of losing the principal of a trade during the settlement process.
The Manager continuously monitors dealing activity to ensure best execution, a process that involves measuring various indicators including the quality of trade settlement and incidence of failed trades.
Counterparty lists are maintained and adjusted accordingly.
59 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
Financial instruments exposure to risk and risk management policies continued c Credit risk continued Management of credit risk continued Cash and cash equivalents Counterparties are subject to regular credit analysis by the Manager and deposits can only be placed with counterparties that have been approved by JPMAMs Counterparty Risk Group.
The Board regularly reviews the counterparties used by the Manager.
Exposure to JPMorgan Chase JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the custodian of the Companys assets.
The Companys assets are segregated from JPMorgan Chases own trading assets.
Therefore these assets are designed to be protected from creditors in the event that JPMorgan Chase were to cease trading.
The Depositary, BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited, is responsible for the safekeeping of all custodial assets of the Company and for verifying and maintaining a record of all other assets of the Company.
However, no absolute guarantee can be given on the protection of all the assets of the Company.
Credit risk exposure The amounts shown in the Statement of Financial Position under debtors and cash and cash equivalents represent the maximum exposure to credit risk at the current and comparative year ends.
d Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities All financial assets and liabilities are either included in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value or the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value except for the debenture which the Company has in issue.
The fair value of this debenture has been calculated using discounted cash flow techniques using the yield on a similarly dated gilt plus a margin based on the five year average yield for the AA Barclays Sterling Corporate Bond.
2016 2015 Accounts Fair Accounts Fair value value value value m m m m 50 million 6.875% debenture June 2018 50.0 54.3 49.9 56.2 60 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
Capital management policies and procedures The Companys debt and capital structure comprises the following: 2016 2015 000 000 Debt: Bank loans 44,511 35,489 50 million 6.875% debenture June 2018 50,000 50,000 94,511 85,489 Equity: Equity share capital 14,082 14,082 Reserves 971,134 802,618 985,216 816,700 Total debt and equity 1,079,727 902,189 The Companys capital management objectives are to ensure that it will continue as a going concern and to maximise the income and capital return to its equity shareholders through an appropriate level of gearing.
The Boards gearing policy is to operate within a range of 5% net cash to 20% geared in normal market conditions.
2016 2015 000 000 Investments held at fair value through profit or loss 1,068,848 885,383 Net assets 985,216 816,700 Gearing 8.5%8.4% The Board, with the assistance of the Manager, monitors and reviews the broad structure of the Companys capital on an ongoing basis.
This includes a review of: the planned level of gearing, which takes into account the Managers views on the market: the need to buy back equity shares, either for cancellation or to hold in Treasury, which takes into account the share price discount or premium: the need for issues of new shares, including issues from Treasury: and the extent to which revenue in excess of that which is required to be distributed should be retained.
Subsequent events The Directors have evaluated the period since the year end and have not noted any subsequent events.
61 Regulatory Disclosures ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE AIFMD DISCLOSURES UNAUDITED Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and is calculated on a gross and a commitment method in accordance with AIFMD.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
The Company is required to state its maximum and actual leverage levels, calculated as prescribed by the AIFMD as at 31st December 2016, which gives the following figures: Gross Commitment Method Method Leverage Exposure Maximum limit 200% 200% Actual 115% 110% JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF Remuneration The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, requires certain disclosures to be made with regard to the remuneration policy of the Companys AIFM.
Details of JPMFs AIFM Remuneration Policy are disclosed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk and became applicable to the Manager on 1st January 2015, being the beginning of the first financial year of JPMF following the Managers authorisation as an AIFM.
The disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the AIFMD, the European Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing the AIFMD, the Guidelines on Sound Remuneration Policies under the AIFMD issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook SYSC 19B: The AIFM Remuneration Code and FUND 3.3.
JPMF Remuneration Policy The current remuneration policy for the EMEA Global Investment business of J. P. Morgan can be found at https: am.
com gb en asset-management gim adv legal .
This policy includes details of the alignment with risk management, the financial and non-financial criteria used to evaluate performance and the measures adopted to avoid or manage conflicts of interest.
JPMF Quantitative Disclosures Disclosures in accordance with FUND 3.3.
5, Article 22 2 e and 22 2 f of the AIFMD and Article 107 of the Delegated Regulation are disclosed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk SECURITIES FINANCING TRANSACTIONS REGULATION SFTR DISCLOSURES UNAUDITED The Company does not engage in Securities Financing Transactions as defined in Article 3 of Regulation EU 2015 2365, securities financing transactions include repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending and securities or commodities borrowing, buy-selling back transactions or sell-buy back transactions and margin lending transactions or Total Return Swaps.
Accordingly, disclosures required by Article 13 of the Regulation are not applicable for the year ended 31st December 2016.
62 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and first Annual Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of General Meeting of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc will be relevant securities Special Resolution held at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Thursday, 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, 11th May 2017 at 2.30 p. m. for the following purposes: the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 and 573 of the Act to 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of Auditors Report for the year ended 31st December 2016. the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of ended 31st December 2016. equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount 4.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of of 1,258,352, representing approximately 10% of the issued 2.75 pence per share.
ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per 5.
To reappoint Sarah Bates as a Director of the Company.
share and shall expire upon the expiry of the general 6.
To reappoint Simon Bragg as a Director of the Company.
authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers, or agreements 7.
To reappoint Sir Alan Collins as a Director of the Company.
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted 8.
To reappoint Dr Kevin Carter as a Director of the Company.
after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such offers, or 9.
To reappoint Nadia Manzoor as a Director of the Company.
agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not 10.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company and to expired.
authorise the Directors to determine Deloitte LLPs Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special remuneration.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter Special Business appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with To consider the following resolutions: Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution Act of its issued shares in the capital of the Company 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby ordinary shares.
generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot be purchased shall be that number of shares which is relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of the equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,258,352, as at the date of the passing of this resolution: representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the be the nominal value of the share: conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall be held in 2018 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the such time, save that the Company may before such expiry average of the middle market quotations for a share make offers, agreements or arrangements which would or taken from and calculated by reference to the London might require relevant securities to be allotted after such Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot days immediately preceding the day on which the relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, agreements share is contracted to be purchased: or b the price of or arrangements as if the authority conferred hereby had the last independent trade: or c the highest current not expired.
independent bid: 63 Shareholder Information continued NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for Notes These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of cash or prices below the prevailing net asset value per the proxy form.
share as determined by the Directors : 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on another person s who need not be a member of the Company to 10th October 2018 unless the authority is renewed at exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2018 or at meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the any other general meeting prior to such time: and meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
vi the Company may make or contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chair, shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding another director of the Company or another person who has agreed to such expiry.
Details of how to appoint the Chair or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If the voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to By order of the Board how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of must attend the meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or JPMorgan Funds Limited, proxies does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting Company Secretary in person.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
64 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to act as business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the its representatives and to vote in person at the meeting see grounds for the request.
instructions given on the proxy form.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same they can only be exercised by the member.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the corporate representative.
member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies to the exercise of voting rights.
Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstances in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at connected with auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to exercise at the previous AGM, which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website sent to the Companys auditor no later than the time it makes its www.
statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Direction Form.
and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by 16.
As at 23rd March 2017 being the latest business day prior to the reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys publication of this Report, the Companys issued share capital consists constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is of 251,670,587 shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in voting rights in the Company are 251,670,587. hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which Electronic appointment CREST members notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the 65 Shareholder Information continued GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND DEFINITIONS Return to Shareholders Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV per Total return to the investor, on a last traded price to last traded Share price basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per without transaction costs, into the shares of the Company at the share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment trusts Return on Net Assets shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Portfolio Turnover Company were reinvested, into the shares of the Company at the Portfolio turnover is based on the average equity purchases and NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
sales expressed as a percentage of average opening and closing portfolio values excluding liquidity funds.
Benchmark Return Total return on the benchmark, on a closing-market value to Performance Attribution closing-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received were Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of the relative to its benchmark.
underlying companies at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Performance Attribution Definitions: The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should not Allocation Effect be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment Measures the effect of allocating assets to sectors or asset types universe.
The Companys investment strategy does not track this differently to the weighting in the benchmark.
index and consequently there may be some divergence between Selection Effect the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser Gearing Net Cash extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in Gearing represents the excess amount above shareholders funds of securities which are excluded from the benchmark.
total investments, expressed as a percentage of the shareholders Gearing Net Cash funds.
Previously gearing represented the excess amount above Measures the impact of borrowings or cash balances on the shareholders funds of total assets expressed as a percentage of Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
Total assets included total investments and net current assets liabilities less cash cash equivalents and excluding Currency Hedge bank loans of less than one year.
If the amount calculated is Measures the effect on the Companys performance of a gain or loss negative, this is shown as a net cash position.
arising from the Companys hedging activities.
Ongoing Charges Management Fee Expenses The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee and The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets all other operating expenses excluding finance costs payable, and therefore has a negative effect on the Companys relative expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net assets performance.
during the year and is calculated in accordance with guidance Shares Issued issued by the Association of Investment Companies.
The issue of shares at a price in excess of the net asset value per share, has a positive effect on the Companys relative performance.
66 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 WHERE TO BUY J. P. MORGAN INVESTMENT TRUSTS You can invest in a J. P. Morgan investment trust through the following: Please note this list is not exhaustive and the availability of individual trusts may vary depending on the provider.
These websites are third party sites and J. P. Morgan Asset Management does not endorse or 1.
Directly from J. P. Morgan recommend any.
Please observe each site's privacy and cookie policies Investment Account as well as their platform charges structure.
The Companys shares are available in the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and 3.
Through a professional adviser occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the Investment Account Professional advisers are usually able to access the products of all the should call J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or companies in the market and can help you find an investment that visit its website at am.
co. uk investor suits your individual circumstances.
An adviser will let you know the fee for their service before you go ahead.
You can find an adviser at Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA unbiased.
co. uk The Companys shares are eligible investments within a J. P. Morgan ISA.
For the 2016 17 tax year, from 6th April 2016 and ending 5th April You may also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, wealth 2017, the total ISA allowance is 15,240.
The shares are also available managers and banks.
Details are available from J. P. Morgan Asset To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or via its website at adviser charging and commission rules, visit fca.
Via a third party provider Third party providers include: AJ Bell Interactive Investor Alliance Trust Savings James Brearley Barclays Stockbrokers James Hay Bestinvest Selftrade Charles Stanley Direct TD Direct FundsNetwork The Share Centre Hargreaves Lansdown 67 Shareholder Information continued Financial Conduct Authority In association with: Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
Report a scam How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA 6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with not have contact details on the Register or you FCA using the share fraud reporting form at an offer to buy or sell shares.
are told they are out of date.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
2 Do not get into a conversation, note the name 7 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at of the person and firm contacting you and then www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on end the call.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an 3 Check the Financial Services Register from unauthorised firm you will not have access to the If you have already paid money to share fraudsters www.
uk to see if the person and firm Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
9 4 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an Think about getting independent financial and 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct authorised firm, copying its website or giving professional advice before you hand over any you false contact details.
Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000 5 10 Use the firms contact details listed on the Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it Register if you want to call it back.
68 JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 Information about the Company FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial year end 31st December Final results announced March Half year end 30th June Half year results announced August Dividend on ordinary shares paid May October Interest payments on 6.875% debenture stock 2018 June December Annual General Meeting May History Companys Registered Office The Company has its origins in the Alabama, New Orleans, Texas and Pacific 60 Victoria Embankment Junction Railways Company Limited which was formed in 1881 to acquire interests London EC4Y 0JP in, and to undertake the completion of, three American railroads the Vicksburg Telephone number: 020 7742 4000 and Meridian, the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific and the New Orleans and For company secretarial and administrative matters, please contact Alison North Eastern.
In 1917 the Company was reorganised, a proportion of the railroad Vincent.
interests were sold, and the investment powers were widened enabling its assets to be invested in several countries including the United Kingdom.
To reflect the Depositary new objectives the name was changed to The Sterling Trust.
The Companys investment policy reverted to North American securities in 1982 when the name BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited was changed to The Fleming American Investment Trust plc.
The name was BNY Mellon Centre changed to JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Trust plc in April 2002 and to 160 Queen Victoria Street its present form in 2006.
JPMorgan, and its predecessor company, has been the London EC4V 4LA Companys manager and secretary since 1966.
The Depositary has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Companys custodian.
Company Numbers Company registration number: 15543 Registrars London Stock Exchange number: 08456505 Equiniti Limited ISIN: GB00BKZGVH64 Reference 1077 SEDOL Code: BKZGVH6 Aspect House Bloomberg code: JAM LN Spencer Road West Sussex BN99 6DA Market Information Telephone number: 0371 384 2316 The Companys net asset value NAV is published daily via the London Stock Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
Calls to the helpline will cost Exchange.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the no more than a national rate call to a 01 or 02 number.
Callers from overseas price is noted daily in the Financial Times, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The should dial 44 121 415 0225 Scotsman and on the J. P. Morgan website at www.
co. uk, where the share price is updated every fifteen minutes during trading hours.
Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding share certificates or dividend cheques should be made in writing to the Registrar quoting reference 1077.
Website Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their holdings on the www.
co. uk internet by visiting www.
co. uk Share Transactions Independent Auditor The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker or Deloitte LLP professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
They may also be purchased Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor and held through the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA and 2 New Street Square J. P. Morgan Junior ISA.
These products are all available on the online service at London EC4A 3ZB jpmorgan.
co. uk online Brokers Manager and Company Secretary Winterflood Securities Limited JPMorgan Funds Limited The Atrium Building Cannon Bridge 25 Dowgate Hill London EC4R 2GA Savings Product Administrators For queries on the J. P. Morgan Investment Account and J. P. Morgan ISA, see contact details on the back cover of this report.
Telephone lines are open Monday to Friday, 9am to 5.30pm.
Telephone calls may be recorded and monitored for security and training purposes.
