EMIT pp63-68 03 10 2016 14:47 Page 66 Shareholder Information continued GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND DEFINITIONS Return to shareholders Share price discount premium to net asset value NAV Total return to the shareholder on a last traded price to last traded price basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per without transaction costs, in the shares of the Company at the time share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a discount.
the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an Return on net assets investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value to Performance attribution bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the NAV Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have Performance attribution definitions: been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet date are deducted from the NAV per share when calculating the return on Asset allocation net assets.
Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, Benchmark return sectors or asset types.
Total return on the benchmark, on a closing-market value to Stock selection closing-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at the lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
investing in securities which are not included in the benchmark.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should not be Gearing cash taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash balances universe.
The Companys investment strategy does not follow or on the Companys relative performance.
track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
Currency Measures the impact of currency exposure differences between Gearing Net Cash the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Gearing represents the excess amount above shareholders funds of Management fee other expenses total investments, expressed as a percentage of the shareholders The payment of fees and expenses reduces the Companys net funds.
If the amount calculated is negative, this is shown as a net assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative cash position.
Ongoing charges The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses, excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage of the average daily net assets during the year.
66 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
