EMIT pp63-68 04 10 2016 19:56 Page 63 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the twenty fourth Annual General Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of Meeting of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc will be relevant securities Special Resolution held at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Wednesday 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, the 16th November 2016 at 3.00 p. m. for the following purposes: Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Sections 570 to 573 of the Act to allot equity 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act for Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2016. cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 11 or by 2.
To approve the Companys Remuneration policy.
way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up ended 30th June 2016. to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,572,804 representing 4.
To approve a final dividend of 9.0p per share.
approximately 5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than 5.
To reappoint Sarah Arkle as a Director of the Company.
the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry 6.
To reappoint Anatole Kaletsky as a Director of the Company.
of the general authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or 7.
To reappoint Richard Laing as a Director of the Company.
agreements which would or might require equity securities to 8.
To reappoint Andrew Page as a Director of the Company.
be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such offers 9.
To reappoint Alan Saunders as a Director of the Company.
or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not 10.
To reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the expired.
Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special remuneration.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter Special Business appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section To consider the following resolutions: 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary shares on such Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby time determine.
generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, pursuant PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act i the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to authorised to be purchased shall be 18,861,062, or if less, allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe that number of Ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company of the issued share capital as at the date of the passing of Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,572,804, this Resolution: representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the share shall be 25 pence: conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary be held in 2017 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to share shall be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% such time, save that the Company may before such expiry of the average of the middle market quotations for an make offers or agreements which would or might require Ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five and so that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and business days immediately preceding the day on which the grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if Ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: or b the the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
price of the last independent trade: or c the highest current independent bid: 63
