EMIT pp63-68 04 10 2016 19:56 Page 63 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the twenty fourth Annual General Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of Meeting of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc will be relevant securities Special Resolution held at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Wednesday 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, the 16th November 2016 at 3.00 p. m. for the following purposes: Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Sections 570 to 573 of the Act to allot equity 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act for Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2016. cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 11 or by 2.
To approve the Companys Remuneration policy.
way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up ended 30th June 2016. to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,572,804 representing 4.
To approve a final dividend of 9.0p per share.
approximately 5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than 5.
To reappoint Sarah Arkle as a Director of the Company.
the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry 6.
To reappoint Anatole Kaletsky as a Director of the Company.
of the general authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or 7.
To reappoint Richard Laing as a Director of the Company.
agreements which would or might require equity securities to 8.
To reappoint Andrew Page as a Director of the Company.
be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such offers 9.
To reappoint Alan Saunders as a Director of the Company.
or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not 10.
To reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the expired.
Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special remuneration.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter Special Business appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section To consider the following resolutions: 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary shares on such Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby time determine.
generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of any authorities previously granted to the Directors, pursuant PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act i the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to authorised to be purchased shall be 18,861,062, or if less, allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe that number of Ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company of the issued share capital as at the date of the passing of Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,572,804, this Resolution: representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the share shall be 25 pence: conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary be held in 2017 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to share shall be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% such time, save that the Company may before such expiry of the average of the middle market quotations for an make offers or agreements which would or might require Ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five and so that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and business days immediately preceding the day on which the grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if Ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: or b the the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
price of the last independent trade: or c the highest current independent bid: 63 EMIT pp63-68 03 10 2016 14:47 Page 64 Shareholder Information continued NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGCONTINUED iv any purchase of Ordinary shares will be made in the Notes market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
value per Ordinary share as determined by the Directors : 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 15th May another person s who need not be a member of the Company to 2018 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting in 2017 or at any other general Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting prior to such time: and Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must expiry of such authority which contract will or may be attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary shares agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the pursuant to any such contract.
Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from By order of the Board voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you from attending JPMorgan Funds Limited, the Meeting and voting in person.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in 11th October 2016 accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form no later than 3.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting i. e. excluding weekends and bank holidays.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
64 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting see have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person corporate representative.
does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their to the exercise of voting rights.
appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to exercise at the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstances resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company connected with Auditors of the Company ceasing to hold office since after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website the previous AGM, which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the sent to the Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Company.
must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the than those expressly stated.
Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Direction Form.
intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
included in the business at the Meeting.
As at 3rd October 2016 being the latest business day prior to the moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by of 132,363,525 Ordinary shares of which6,539,224 shares are held in reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys Treasury, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is the Company are 125,824,301. frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must Electronic appointment CREST members be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
