EMIT pp45-62 03 10 2016 14:47 Page 45 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE 2016 1.
Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts the SORP issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The disclosure on going concern on page 29 of the Directors Report form part of these financial statements.
b Transition to FRS 102 This set of financial statements, in accordance with the SORP includes changes arising from the adoption of FRS 102 which the Company is required to comply with for the first time for the year ended 30th June 2016.
Aside from presentational aspects relating to the Statement of Cash Flows, no significant changes have arisen from the adoption of the new standards.
Where changes have arisen, they are substantially in relation to presentation and disclosure there has been no impact to financial position or financial performance and no comparative figures require restating.
The Statement of Cash Flows has been re-presented to include cash held in liquidity funds as a cash and cash equivalent.
In addition, the Statement of Cash Flows reconciles to cash and cash equivalents whereas under previous UK GAAP it reconciled to net cash.
The date of transition to FRS 102 is 1st July 2014.
Early adoption In March 2016, the FRC published amendments to FRS 102 concerning the fair value hierarchy disclosures.
These amendments are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2017.
The Company has elected to adopt these amendments early in this set of financial statements.
Full disclosure is given in note 19 on page 54. c Valuation of investments The Company has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of financial instruments.
The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of income and capital growth.
The portfolio of financial assets is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy and information is provided internally on that basis to the Companys Board of Directors.
Accordingly, upon initial recognition the investments are designated by the Company as held at fair value through profit or loss.
They are included initially at fair value which is taken to be their cost, excluding expenses incidental to purchase which are written off to capital at the time of acquisition.
Subsequently the investments are valued at fair value, which are quoted bid prices for investments traded in active markets.
For investments which are not traded in active markets, unlisted and restricted investments, the Board takes into account the latest traded prices, other observable market data and asset values based on the latest management accounts.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
d Accounting for reserves Gains and losses on sales of investments including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, realised gains and losses on foreign currency, management fees and finance costs allocated to capital and any other capital charges, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Gains and losses on sales of investments.
Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Investment holding gains and losses.
45 EMIT pp45-62 03 10 2016 14:47 Page 46 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Accounting policiescontinued e Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are included in revenue on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the Board, the dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is included in capital.
UK dividends are included net of tax credits.
Overseas dividends are included gross of any withholding tax.
Special dividends are looked at individually to ascertain the reason behind the payment.
This will determine whether they are treated as income or capital.
Where the Company has elected to receive scrip dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in revenue.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital.
Interest receivable is taken to revenue on an accruals basis.
f Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
With effect from 1st July 2015, the management fee and any finance costs incurred by the Company have been allocated 70% to capital and 30% to revenue.
In previous periods, 100% of these charges were allocated to revenue.
In line with the guidance provided in the SORP, this change is not considered to be a matter of accounting policy and consequently no prior period restatements have been made as a result of this change.
All other expenses are allocated wholly to revenue with the following exceptions: Expenses incidental to the purchase and sale of an investment are charged to capital.
These expenses are commonly referred to as transaction costs and comprise brokerage commission and stamp duty.
Details of transaction costs are given in note 10 on page 51.
Subscription shares issue costs are charged to share premium.
g Financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents may comprise cash including demand deposits which are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Liquidity funds are considered cash equivalents as they are held for cash management purposes as an alternative to cash.
Other debtors and creditors do not carry any interest, are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at nominal value, with debtors reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Derivative financial instruments, including short term forward currency contracts are valued at fair value, which is the net unrealised gain or loss, and are included in current assets or current liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position.
h Taxation Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid or recovered.
Deferred tax is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable timing differences but deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that taxable profits will be available against which those timing differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rate which is expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and is measured on an undiscounted basis.
i Value Added Tax VAT Expenses are disclosed inclusive of the related irrecoverable VAT.
Recoverable VAT is calculated using the partial exemption method based on the proportion of zero rated supplies to total supplies.
46 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
