EMIT pp63-68 03 10 2016 14:47 Page 67 WHERE TO BUY J. P. MORGAN INVESTMENT TRUSTS You can invest in a J. P. Morgan investment trust through the following: Please note this list is not exhaustive and the availability of individual trusts may vary depending on the provider.
These websites are third party sites and J. P. Morgan Asset Management does not endorse or 1.
Directly from J. P. Morgan recommend any.
Please observe each site's privacy and cookie policies Investment Account as well as their platform charges structure.
The Companys shares are available in the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and 3.
Through a professional adviser occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the Investment Account Professional advisers are usually able to access the products of all the should call J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or companies in the market and can help you find an investment that visit its website at am.
co. uk investor suits your individual circumstances.
An adviser will let you know the fee for their service before you go ahead.
You can find an adviser at Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA unbiased.
co. uk The Companys shares are eligible investments within a J. P. Morgan ISA.
For the 2016 17 tax year, from 6th April 2016 and ending 5th April You may also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, wealth 2017, the total ISA allowance is 15,240.
The shares are also available managers and banks.
Details are available from J. P. Morgan Asset To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or via its website at adviser charging and commission rules, visit fca.
Via a third party provider Third party providers include: AJ Bell Interactive Investor Alliance Trust Savings James Brearley Barclays Stockbrokers James Hay Bestinvest Selftrade Charles Stanley Direct TD Direct Hargreaves Lansdown The Share Centre 67 EMIT pp63-68 03 10 2016 14:47 Page 68 Shareholder Information continued Financial Conduct Authority In association with: Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
Report a scam How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA 6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with not have contact details on the Register or you FCA using the share fraud reporting form at an offer to buy or sell shares.
are told they are out of date.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
2 Do not get into a conversation, note the name 7 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at of the person and firm contacting you and then www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on end the call.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an 3 Check the Financial Services Register from unauthorised firm you will not have access to the If you have already paid money to share fraudsters www.
uk to see if the person and firm Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
4 9 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an Think about getting independent financial and 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct authorised firm, copying its website or giving professional advice before you hand over any you false contact details.
Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000 5 Use the firms contact details listed on the 10 Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it Register if you want to call it back.
68 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
