EMIT pp45-62 03 10 2016 14:47 Page 60 Financial Statements continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
Financial instruments exposure to risk and risk management policies continued c Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction fails to discharge its obligations under that transaction which could result in loss to the Company.
Management of credit risk Portfolio dealing The Company invests in markets that operate DVP Delivery Versus Payment settlement.
The process of DVP mitigates the risk of losing the principal of a trade during the settlement process.
The Manager continuously monitors dealing activity to ensure best execution, a process that involves measuring various indicators including the quality of trade settlement and incidence of failed trades.
Counterparty lists are maintained and adjusted accordingly.
Cash and cash equivalents Counterparties are subject to regular credit analysis by the Manager and deposits can only be placed with counterparties that have been approved by JPMAMs Counterparty Risk Group.
The Board regularly reviews the counterparties used by the Manager.
Exposure to JPMorgan Chase JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the custodian of the Companys assets.
The Companys assets are segregated from JPMorgan Chases own trading assets.
Therefore these assets are designed to be protected from creditors in the event that JPMorgan Chase were to cease trading.
The Depositary, BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited, is responsible for the safekeeping of all custodial assets of the Company and for verifying and maintaining a record of all other assets of the Company.
However, no absolute guarantee can be given on the protection of all the assets of the Company.
Credit risk exposure The amounts shown in the Statement of Financial Position under debtors and cash and cash equivalents represent the maximum exposure to credit risk at the current and comparative year ends.
d Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities All financial assets and liabilities are either included in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value or the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Capital management policies and procedures The Companys capital comprises the following: 2016 2015 000 000 Equity: Called up Share Capital 33,091 33,091 Reserves 901,551 819,598 Total capital 934,642 852,689 The Companys capital management objectives are to ensure that it will continue as a going concern and to maximise capital return to its shareholders.
The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager believes it to be appropriate to do so.
Gearing will be in the range of 10% net cash to 20% geared in normal market conditions, at the discretion of the Manager.
60 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
