EMIT pp45-62 03 10 2016 14:47 Page 62 Regulatory Disclosures ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE AIFMD DISCLOSURES UNAUDITED Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be calculated on a gross and a commitment method in accordance with AIFMD.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
The Company is required to state its maximum and actual leverage levels, calculated as prescribed by the AIFMD, at 30th June 2016, which gives the following figures: Gross Commitment Leverage Exposure Method Method Maximum limit 200% 200% 1 Actual 100% 100% 1 It should be noted that the Company does not have a borrowing facility and does not currently employ gearing.
At the year end the Companys position was 3.6% net cash.
The above figures are theoretical and are calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed by the AIFMD.
JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF Remuneration JPMF is the authorised manager of the Company and is part of the J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. group of companies.
In this disclosure, the terms J. P. Morgan or Firm refer to that group, and each of the entities in that group globally, unless otherwise specified.
This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the AIFMD, the European Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing the AIFMD, the Guidelines on Sound Remuneration Policies under the AIFMD issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook SYSC 19B: The AIFM Remuneration Code and FUND 3.3.
JPMF Remuneration Policy The current remuneration policy for the EMEA Global Investment business of J. P. Morgan can be found at https: am.
com gb en asset-management gim adv .
This policy includes details of the alignment with risk management, the financial and non-financial criteria used to evaluate performance and the measures adopted to avoid or manage conflicts of interest.
JPMF Quantitative Disclosures Disclosures in accordance with FUND 3.3.
5, Article 22 2 e and 22 2 f of the AIFMD and Article 107 of the Delegated Regulation are disclosed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk 62 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
