EMIT pp22-35 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 35 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk the accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Manager is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to the Manager.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve prepare the financial statements in accordance with United consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under Company law the that have occurred to the accounts since they were initially Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are presented on the website.
The accounts are prepared in accordance satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of with UK legislation, which may differ from legislation in other the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that jurisdictions.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and Directors Remuneration Report that comply with that law and consistently: those regulations.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the prudent: Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United explained in the financial statements: and Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and return or prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis loss of the Company.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that For and on behalf of the Board the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They Alan Saunders are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Chairman and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 4th October 2016 detection of fraud and other irregularities.
