Glossary of terms Adjusted earnings per share profit attributable Company Just Eat plc, a company incorporated in tothe holders of Ordinary Shares in theParent, England and Wales with registered number 06947854 beforelong-term employee incentive costs: whose registered office is at Masters House, exceptional items: other gains and losses: foreign 107Hammersmith Road, London W14 0QH.
exchange gains and losses: amortisation of acquired Consumer end users of the Just Eat websites intangible assets: and the tax impact of these andapps, who use them to place orders online.
adjusting items, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period.
Active users those consumers that have placed at CSOP the Just Eat Company Share Option Plan.
least one order in the last 12 months.
Directors the Directors of the Company whose Admission the admission of the Ordinary Shares names are set out on pages 42 and 43. tothe High Growth Segment of the Main Market Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Disclosure and ofthe London Stock Exchange which occurred on Transparency Rules made under Part VI of the Financial 8April 2014.
On 6 May 2014, the Group transitioned Services and Markets Act 2000 asamended.
tothe Premium Listing Segment of the Official List ofthe UK Financial Conduct Authority.
EBITDA earnings before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
EBT the Employee Benefit Trust, which is AGM the Annual General Meeting of the Company, administered by Appleby Trust Jersey Limited.
which will be held on 27 April 2017 at 9.30am at TheLincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London eCRM electronic customer relationship marketing.
EMI Scheme the Just Eat Enterprise Management AOV average order value.
Average revenue per order ARPO calculated as EPS earnings per share.
order driven revenues divided by the number of orders.
ESOS employee share option scheme.
Articles the Articles of Association oftheCompany.
Associates or associated undertakings Exceptional items items that, by virtue oftheir from 14 November 2013 Achindra Online Marketing nature and incidence, have been disclosed separately Private Limited, the Groups Indian joint venture which in order to draw them to the attention ofthe reader was disposed of on 14 January 2015, and from ofthe financial statements.
3November 2014 IF-JE Participaes Ltda, the GroupsLatin American associated undertaking.
Executive Directors David Buttress and PaulHarrison since 26 September 2016, andMikeWroe before Benelux the Groups former operations in Belgium thatdate.
Executive Team The Executive Directors, Adrian Blair Board the Board of Directors of JustEatplc.
Chief Operating Officer, Graham Corfield CGU cash-generating unit.
UKManagingDirector, Barnaby Dawe ChiefMarketing Officer, Fernando Fanton Chief CMA Competition and Markets Authority.
Product and Technology Officer and Lisa Hillier Companies Act the Companies Act 2006 ChiefPeople Officer.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 144 Financial statements FBA FBA Invest SaS, the Groups French subsidiary Movile Movile Mobile Commerce Holding S. L. which trades as ALLORESTO.
fr, through its subsidiary Non-executive Directors the Non-executive Directors Eat On Line Sa.
of the Company designated as such on pages 42 and 43.
FRC the Financial Reporting Council.
Orderpad internet connected Android tablet provided Full time equivalent FTE the number of employees to Restaurant Partners, which enables them to receive after factoring in reduced hours worked by part time staff.
orders and provide order tracking to consumers.
FVTPL fair value through profit or loss.
Ordinary Shares the Ordinary Shares with anominal value of 0.01 each in the share capital of the Company.
Group Just Eat plc and its subsidiary undertakings asdefined by the Companies Act 2006.
Restaurant Partner any restaurant signed up to JustEat, offering either delivery or collection services HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
via the Just Eat websites or apps.
IAS International Accounting Standard s. Shareholder a holder for the time being ofOrdinary Shares of the Company.
IF-JE IF-JE Participaes Ltda, the Groups Latin American associated undertaking.
SinDelantal SinDelantal Mexico S. A. fide C. V. IF-JE NL IF-JE Holdings B. V. the Group's associated theGroups Mexican subsidiary.
undertaking that holds a 49 per cent stake in our SIP the Just Eat Share Incentive Plan.
This associate is 67 per cent owned by Movile.
The Code the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the FRC in September 2014.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard s asadopted for use in the European Union.
TSR total shareholder return the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that IFRS IC International Financial Reporting Standards dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares.
Underlying EBITDA the main measure of profitability IP intellectual property.
used by management to assess the performance of IPO initial public offering of the Companys Ordinary the Groups businesses.
It is defined as earnings before Shares immediately post-admission on 8April 2014. finance income and costs: taxation: depreciation and amortisation EBITDA and additionally excludes Just Connect Terminal JCT mobile network theGroups share of depreciation and amortisation technology provided to Restaurant Partners, which ofassociates: long-term employee incentive costs: enables them to receive orders from Just Eat.
exceptional items: foreign exchange gains and losses: and other gains and losses being profits or losses arising Just Eat the Group or Just Eat plc and its subsidiary on the disposal and deemed disposal of operations, and undertakings as defined by the Companies Act 2006. gains and losses on financial assets held at fair value.
JSOP the Just Eat Joint Share OwnershipPlan.
At a segmental level, Underlying EBITDA also excludes KPI key performance indicator.
intra-group franchise fee arrangements and incorporates an allocation of Group technology and central costs Menulog Menulog Group Limited and its subsidiary both of which net out on a consolidated level.
undertakings, which include the Groups operations inAustralia and New Zealand.
VAT UK value added taxation.
Mobile device any or all of: smartphones, tablets and any other handheld computing device.
