JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 168 Information for shareholders Financial calendar 2017 Annual General Meeting 18 May 2017 Record date for proposed final dividend 5 May 2017 Payment of final dividend, subject to shareholder approval 26 May 2017 Expected announcement of interim results for the six months ending 30 June 2017 13 September 2017 Investor relations enquiries For all institutional investor relations enquiries about the Group, please contact our Investor Relations department at the Registered Office address shown on page 170.
Individual shareholders with queries regarding their shareholding in JRP Group plc should contact our Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
Shareholders can keep up to date with all the latest JRP Group plc news and events by registering with our Alert Service http: jrpgroup.
Just select the information of interest to you, such as Results, trading updates, AGM and other meetings, and you will then be notified by email when this information is available to view on our website.
Further copies of our Annual Report and Accounts can be obtained by contacting the Group Company Secretarys office at the Registered Office address on page 170.
Shareholder profile as at 31 December 2016 No.
Current and historical share price information is available on our website http: www.
com investors  Share-monitor and also on many other websites.
Warning about unsolicited approaches to shareholders and Boiler Room scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and persuasive.
JRP Group plc shareholders are advised to be extremely wary of such approaches and advised to only deal with firms authorised by the FCA.
You can check whether an enquirer is properly authorised and report scam approaches by contacting the FCA on www.
uk consumers or by calling the FCA Consumer Helpline: 0800 111 6768.
Registrar The Companys register of shareholders is maintained by our Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
All enquiries regarding shareholder administration including dividends, lost share certificates or changes of address should be communicated in writing, quoting JRP Group plcs Company reference number 3947 to the address below or by calling 0371 384 2787 for callers from the UK.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Mondays to Fridays, excluding UK Bank Holidays or 44 0 121 415 0096 for callers from outside the UK.
Shareholders can also view and manage their shareholdings online by registering at www.
Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 169 Dividend mandates We strongly encourage all shareholders to receive their cash dividends by direct transfer to a bank or building society account.
This ensures that dividends are credited promptly to shareholders without the cost and inconvenience of having to pay in dividend cheques at a bank.
If you wish to use this cost-effective and simple facility, please contact our Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
Cautionary statement This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of JRP Group plc the Company as a body, and for no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forwardlooking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
