JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 154 Independent Auditors report to JRP Group plc on the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of JRP Group plc the Company for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 156 to 166.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the supplementary information in accordance with the CFO Forums Principles and Guidance on EEV reporting dated April 2016 EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 160 to 166.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on pages 100 to 169.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 155, the Directors have accepted responsibility for the preparation of the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with the EEV Principles.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our engagement and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the supplementary information An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the supplementary information.
In addition we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and financial statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited supplementary information.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on supplementary information In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information of the Company for the 18 months ended 31 December 2016 has been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 160 to 166.
Ben Priestley for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 9 March 2017
