Definitions and glossary AGM IFRS Annual General Meeting International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union AIFMD The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Investment Manager KW Investment Management Ltd Annualised net operating income NOI Annualised contracted rental income, hotel earnings and loan IPO portfolio interest income less an estimate of annual direct Initial Public Offering property related expenses JFSC Basic earnings per share EPS Jersey Financial Services Commission Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the Company divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares Kennedy Wilson KW inissue during the period Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. together with one or more of its group companies including those in Europe Board The board of directors of the Company KWE or the Company Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Book value The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the Libor financial statements London Interbank Offer Rate EPRA Market value European Public Real Estate Association Market value is determined by the Groups external valuers, in accordance with the RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion of EPRA net initial yield the estimated amount for which a property should exchange on Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller thebalance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing expenses, divided by the portfolio value, adding notional purchasers costs Net rental income Rental income as reported in the income statement, on an EPRA NNNAV accruals basis, and adjusted for the spreading of lease incentives EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of financial over the term certain of the lease in accordance with SIC 15, instruments, debt and deferred taxation less direct property-related expenses EPRA vacancy Weighted average interest rate WAIR ERV of vacant space divided by ERV of the whole asset portfolio The Groups interest rate across all drawn facilities weighted by all drawn debt at the period end EPRA topped-up net initial yield Current annualised rental income topped-up for contracted Weighted average unexpired lease term WAULT uplifts such as step-ups, unexpired rent-free periods and other The weighted average lease term remaining to first break across lease incentives the portfolio weighted by contracted rental income, excluding loans, hotels, development and residential properties Estimated rental value ERV External valuers opinion as to the rent at which space could be Yield on cost let in the market based on conditions prevailing at the date of The estimated annual NOI at the date of purchase divided by the valuation purchase price using actual purchasers costs Euribor Euro Interbank Offer Rate FCA Financial Conduct Authority Gross annual rent The annualised contracted rent adjusted for the inclusion of rent subject to rent-free periods Group The Company and its subsidiary undertakings from time to time 156 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 About KWE Registered address Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc is an LSE listed property for KWE and Investment Manager company that invests in real estate across the UK, Ireland, Spain 47 Esplanade and Italy.
It aims to generate superior shareholder returns by St Helier unlocking value of under-resourced real estate across its target Jersey JE1 0BD geographies.
Its existing portfolio is primarily invested across Channel Islands office and retail in the UK and Ireland, weighted towards 44 1534 835 722 London, the South East and Dublin.
Kennedy Wilson Europe offices Go to www.
eu United Kingdom 50 Grosvenor Hill About KW London, W1K 3QT Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc is externally managed United Kingdom by a wholly-owned Jersey incorporated subsidiary of Kennedy- 44 20 7734 3993 Wilson Holdings, Inc. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. NYSE:KW is a global real estate investment company.
KW Ireland owns, operates, and invests in real estate both on its own and 33 Sir John Rogersons Quay through its investment management platform.
KW focuses on Dublin 2 multifamily and commercial properties located in the Western Ireland U. S. UK, Ireland, Spain, Italy and Japan.
To complement KWs 353 1 649 4220 investment business, it also provides real estate services primarily to financial services clients.
Spain C Fernando El Santo, 17 3 Izq.
com Madrid, 28010 Spain 34 91 737 2540 Jersey 29 Broad Street St Helier Jersey JE2 3RR Channel Islands 44 1534 859 442 Forward looking statements This Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared for, and only for, the members of Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisors do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report and Accounts may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group, and the Groups financial condition, results of operations, business, future plans and strategies, anticipated Printed by Park Communications on FSC events or trends, and similar matters, that are not historical facts.
Park is an EMAS certified forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, company and its Environmental Management uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results of System is certified to ISO 14001. operations, performance or achievements of the Group or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or Designed and produced by Gather achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking 44 0 20 7610 6140 statements.
These forward-looking statements reflect information and www.
london knowledge available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions or updates to these forward-looking statements to reflect future events, circumstances, unanticipated events, new information or otherwise except as required by law or any appropriate regulatory authority.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance and nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Persons needing advice should consult an independent financial advisor.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 www.
