Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Shareholder information Group website Change of address You can access our website at Communications with shareholders are mailed to the addresses www.
eu to find the current share price, read the held on the share register.
In the event of any change of address latest news in the investors section and read the Annual Report or other amendment, please notify the Companys registrar and Accounts.
under the signature of the registered holder.
Registrars Shareholders may also register and manage their shares through Administrative enquiries about the holding of Kennedy Wilson Computershares shareholder portal www.
Europe Real Estate Plc shares should be directed to: Investment Manager Computershare Investor Services Jersey The Company is advised by KW Investment Management Ltd, Queensway House which is incorporated as a company limited by shares in Jersey Hilgrove Street and is whollyowned and controlled indirectly by Kennedy St Helier JE1 1ES Wilson.
JERSEY Channel Islands The Investment Manager is authorised and regulated by the Tel: 44 0 870 707 4040 Jersey Financial Services Commission under the Financial Services Jersey Law 1998, as amended, as an investment A textphone facility for shareholders with hearing difficulties is manager.
KW Investment Management Ltd is also an Alternative Dividends Investment Fund Manager AIFM for the purposes of the Shareholders who wish to have dividends paid directly into a Jersey Financial Services Commissions JFSC AIFMD The bank account rather than by cheque to their registered address Alternate Investment Fund Managers Directive related can complete a mandate form.
To set up a dividend mandate, or regulations and complies with the JFSCs Codes of Practice for change your existing mandated details, please contact the Alternative Investment Funds and AIF Services Business.
Companys registrar, Computershare on the number provided on this page.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc will be held at 10.00 am on 26 April 2017 at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E16AD.
Shareholder profile This table sets out an analysis of the shareholder profile of the Company at 7 March 2017 Shares by size of holdings No.
Includes 3,429,427 shares unknown Financial calendar 2017 Publication of Annual Report and Accounts and posting of AGM Notice 23 March First interim dividend payment date 31 March Last date for receipt of proxy forms for AGM 24 April 10.00 am Annual General Meeting 26 April 10.00 am 155 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
