Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
General information The Company is a limited liability, closed-ended investment company incorporated and domiciled in Jersey on 23 December 2013.
The Group comprises the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group and individually Group companies.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the main market for listed securities of the London Stock Exchange.
The registered office of the Company is 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD, Channel Islands.
The Company invests in investment and development property, hotel businesses and loans secured by real estate in Europe with the objective of generating and growing long-term cash flows to pay dividends and to enhance capital values through focused asset management and .
The consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue on 23 February 2017 and signed by Simon Radford and Mark McNicholas on behalf of the Board.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements included in this report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The Company has not early adopted any forthcoming IASB standards.
Note 4 sets out the details of such upcoming standards.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent with the prior year, save for the re-presentation of the certain segment note disclosures set out in Note 6B IV and Note 6C IV.
Basis of measurement The consolidated financial statements are for the year ended 31 December 2016 and have been prepared on the going concern basis, applying the historical cost convention except for investment and development property, loans secured by real estate, property, plant and equipment and derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair value using the accounting policies as set out in Note 3.
C. Functional and presentational currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pound Sterling as this is the Companys functional currency.
All financial information presented in Pound Sterling has been rounded to the nearest million, and presented to one decimal place, except where otherwise stated.
D. Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Groups accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements in the year ending 31 December 2016 include managements estimates of the fair value of investment and development property Note 17, loans secured by real estate Note 18 and land and buildings within property, plant and equipment Note 19.
Significant accounting policies The following new and amended standards and interpretations are effective for the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2016.
None of these had a material impact on the Group: Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation Amendments to IAS 27 Equity method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Bearer Plants Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle, and Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment entities exception to consolidation A.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases.
92 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information ii.
Business combinations The Group acquires subsidiaries that may own investment and development property or carry on businesses, including the ownership of hotels or other forms of own-use assets.
At the time of acquisition, the Group considers whether each acquisition represents the acquisition of a business or the acquisition of an asset.
The Group accounts for an acquisition as a business combination where an integrated set of activities is acquired in addition to the property.
More specifically, consideration is given as to the extent to which significant processes are acquired and, in particular, the extent of services provided by the subsidiary.
When the acquisition of subsidiaries does not represent a business, it is accounted for as an acquisition of a group of assets and liabilities.
The cost of the acquisition is allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based upon their relative fair values, and no goodwill or related deferred tax is recognised.
Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
If an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definition of a financial instrument is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, other contingent consideration is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date and subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets at the date ofacquisition.
Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
Property acquisitions and business combinations Where property is acquired, via corporate acquisitions or otherwise, management considers the substance of the assets and activities of the acquired entity in determining whether the acquisition represents the acquisition of a business.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss.
Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and resulting deferred taxes thereon is recognised as goodwill.
Where the Group judges that an acquisition is a business combination it uses the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations at the date that control is transferred to the Group see policy A ii.
The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired.
Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Any gain arising on a bargain purchase is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment.
Where such acquisitions are not judged to be an acquisition of a business, they are not accounted for as business combinations.
Instead, the cost of acquisition is allocated between the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity based on the relative fair values at the acquisition date.
Accordingly, no goodwill or additional deferred taxation arises.
C. Foreign currency translation Items included within the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates its functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currency are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss for the financial period see policy C ii.
Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Pound Sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Pound Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on re-translation are taken to other comprehensive income OCI and then accumulated in a separate foreign currency translation reserve.
93 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued When a foreign operation is disposed of in its entirety or partially such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation reserve related to that foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
If the Group disposes of part of its interest in a subsidiary but retains control, then the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to NCIs.
When the Group disposes of any part of an associate or joint venture while retaining significant influence or joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss.
D. Revenue recognition Revenue includes rental income and other property related revenue, service charges and management charges from properties, hotel revenue and interest income from loans secured by real estate.
Rental income Rental income from operating leases on investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When the Group provides incentives to its tenants, the cost of incentives is recognised over the lease term, on a straight-line basis, as a reduction of rental income.
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease together with any further term for which the tenant has the option to continue the lease, where, at the inception of the lease, the Directors are reasonably certain that the tenant will exercise the option.
Contingent rents, which are dependent on the turnover levels of lessees are recognised as income in the periods in which they are earned.
Any financial statement impact of rent reviews are recognised when such rent reviews have been agreed with the tenants.
Surrender premia received are considered a component of rental income.
Lease incentives are recognised as an integral part of the net consideration for use of the property and are amortised on a straight line basis over the term of the lease, or the period to the first tenant break, if shorter, unless there is reasonable certainty that the break will not be exercised.
Income arising from expenses recharged to tenants is recognised in the period in which the compensation becomes receivable.
Service and management charges and other such receipts are included in rental income gross of the related costs, as the Directors consider the Group acts as principal in this respect.
Interest income on loans secured by real estate Interest income on loans secured by real estate is recognised in profit or loss on an effective interest rate basis over the period to expected maturity.
Hotel revenue Hotel revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the normal course of business and recognised when services have been rendered.
Such revenues typically include rental of rooms, food and beverage sales and other ancillary revenues from hotels owned by the Group.
Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and beverages are sold.
Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are expensed as the related service is provided.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future payments is available.
F. Interest income from cash and cash equivalents Interest income from cash and cash equivalents is recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using the effective interest rate method.
G. Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings including amortisation of deferred debt issue costs, and amortisation of discounts and premia on corporate bonds and are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
All interest expense on borrowings is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred, unless it is directly related to investment property under development in which case it is capitalised.
H. Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
It is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to the recording of a business combination or items recognised directly in equity or in OCI.
Current tax Current tax is calculated as the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the financial period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, with any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
94 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information ii.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for: Temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and Temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that follow the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
For investment and development property that is measured at fair value, the presumption that the carrying amount of investment and development property will be recovered through sale is not expected to be rebutted.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but the Group intends to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or the Groups tax assets and liabilities are realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer expected to be probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they become obligations of the Company.
Investment and development property Property held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Group, is classified as investment property and recorded at fair value.
Investment property also includes property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property see Note 5A.
Investment property is recognised when it has been acquired and future economic benefits are expected to be derived from its ownership.
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs and subsequently measured at fair value with any change recognised in profit or loss.
Investment property is derecognised when it has been disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset would result in either gains or losses at the retirement or disposal of the investment property.
Any gains or losses are recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement or disposal.
Any gain or loss on disposal of an investment property calculated as the difference between the proceeds from disposal, net of selling costs, and the carrying amount of the item is recognised in profit orloss.
Properties that are currently being developed or that are to be developed in the near future are held as development properties.
These properties are initially valued at cost.
Any direct expenditure on development properties is capitalised and the properties are then valued by external valuers at their respective fair value at each reporting date.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
Valuations reflect, when appropriate, the type of tenants actually in occupation or responsible for meeting lease commitments or likely to be in occupation after letting vacant accommodation, the allocation of maintenance and insurance responsibilities between the Group and the lessee, and the expected remaining economic life of the property.
When rent reviews or lease renewals are pending with anticipated reversionary increases, it is assumed that all notices, and when appropriate counter-notices, have been served validly and within the appropriate time.
K. Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings which represent hotels are initially measured at cost plus any costs that are directly attributable to acquiring, and thereafter they are measured at fair value see Note 5C.
Revaluation gains are credited to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity within a revaluation reserve unless representing the reversal of an impairment of the same asset previously recognised in profit or loss, in which case the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
A decrease arising as a result of a revaluation is recognised as an expense to the extent that it exceeds any amount previously credited to the revaluation surplus relating to the same asset.
Any gain recognised in OCI is not re-classified into the profit or loss upon disposal of the associated asset.
95 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued Other items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation and any impairment.
Depreciation and any impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in profit or loss.
All property, plant and equipment excluding land, which is not depreciated are depreciated to residual value over their estimated useful lives, namely: Buildings 40 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 5 10 years All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
L. Expenses Expenses are recognised in the profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred on an accruals basis.
M. Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on a first-in, first-out basis.
N. Assets held-for-sale Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, are classified as held-for-sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use.
Such assets, or disposal groups, are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill, and then to the remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets or investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups other accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale or  and subsequent gains and losses on re-measurement are recognised in the profit or loss.
Once classified as held-for-sale, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are no longer amortised or depreciated.
Borrowings All borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see Note 5D.
P. Financial instruments i. Non-derivative financial assets The Group initially recognises loans secured by real estate on the date that they are purchased.
All other financial assets are recognised initially on the trade date, which is the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of theinstrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in such transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
The Group classifies its cash and cash equivalents and rent and other receivables as loans and receivables which are measured at amortised cost, with loans secured by real estate being designated at fair value through the profit or loss.
At 31 December 2016 the Group had the following non-derivative financial assets: a.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with maturities of three months or less from the acquisition date that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in their fair value, and are used by the Group in the management of its short-term commitments.
These assets are initially measured at fair value less initial direct costs and subsequently at amortised cost.
Rent and other receivables Rent and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value less initial direct costs, which is usually the original invoiced amount and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision made for impairment, if applicable.
Where there is objective evidence that an incurred impairment loss has arisen, appropriate allowances for any irrecoverable amounts are recognised through profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income.
c. Loans secured by real estate Loans secured by real estate have been designated to be measured at fair value through profit or loss as the assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally on a fair value basis.
Any related initial direct costs relating to these loans are charged immediately as an expense through profit or loss.
Interest income is accreted to profit or loss separately using the effective interest rate method see policy D ii.
96 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information ii.
Non-derivative financial liabilities All non-derivative financial liabilities are recognised initially at the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are measured initially at fair value less initial direct costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
Derivative financial instruments and net investment hedge accounting The Group uses a variety of derivative instruments to mitigate certain interest rate and foreign currency financial risks including interest rate caps, cross-currency swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency zero premium options.
The Group does not enter into derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivative instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with its risk management policies.
All derivatives are recognised at fair value.
The treatment of the change in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, the nature of the item being hedged and the effectiveness of the hedge see Note 5E.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Net investment hedges The Group designates foreign currency forward contracts, zero-cost foreign currency options, interest rate cross-currency swaps and certain foreign currency denominated corporate debt as hedges of its net investment in foreign operations.
At inception, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged items, its risk management objectives and the strategy for undertaking the transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment of whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items, both at inception and future periods.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in OCI.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss within finance income or costs as appropriate.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or if the foreign operation is sold then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively and gains or losses accumulated in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.
b. Derivatives not designated as hedges Interest rate caps are used to economically hedge the Groups exposure to certain borrowing related interest rate risks and are not formally designated as hedges for hedge accounting purposes.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognised in profit or loss within finance income or finance cost as appropriate.
The fair values of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 26.
The full fair value of a derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when its remaining maturity is more than one year: it is classified as a current asset or liability when its remaining maturity is less than one year.
c. Master netting or similar agreements The derivatives do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the balance sheet.
This is because the Group does not have any currently legally enforceable right to offset recognised amounts, because the right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as credit events.
Q. Share-based payments The Group enters into equity-settled share-based payment arrangements in respect of services provided to it by KW Investment Management Ltd the Investment Manager.
The Company recognised an obligation where the method of settlement of the award is dependent on the achievement of a market-based performance condition which is outside of the control of the Company, and the award may be settled either through market purchase of shares or the issue of shares.
Investment management fee In relation to the Investment Managers management fee at grant date, the monetary value of the award it will receive is dependent on a non-market performance condition, being the EPRA NAV at each quarter end.
The award is accounted for as an equity settled share based payment arrangement.
The cost of the services received in respect of the shares is recognised in the profit or loss over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to equity.
Performance fee The performance fee arrangement is accounted for as an equity settled share based payment arrangement.
The grant date is 1January and on that date, the Company estimates the grant date fair value of each equity instrument and the number of equity instruments for which the service and non-market performance conditions are expected to be satisfied, resulting in the initial estimate of the total share based payment cost which is expensed over the vesting period.
Subsequent to the initial recognition and measurement, the estimate of the number of equity instruments for which the service and non-market performance conditions are expected to be satisfied is revised during the vesting period, that is, the period from 1 January to 31 December.
The share based payment cost is based on the fair value of the number of equity instruments issued upon satisfaction of these conditions.
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from the stated capital account included in equity.
97 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued S. Provisions Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risk specific to the liability.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for future annual reporting periods of the Group, and have not been applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The upcoming standards are set out below and the Group is currently assessing their potential impact.
The Group does not plan to early-adopt these standards.
New Revised International Financial Reporting Standards 1 Effective date 2 IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 2 Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 2 Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017 2 IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers and certain subsequent amendments and clarifications 1 January 2018 IFRS 9: Financial Instruments 2009, and subsequent amendments in 2010, 2013 and 2014 1 January 2018 2 IFRS 16: Leases 1 January 2019 2 Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions 1 January 2018 2 Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2018 Footnotes: 1.
The effective dates are those applying to European Union endorsed IFRS if later than the IASB effective dates and relate to periods beginning on or after those dates detailed above.
Not European Union endorsed at the time of approval of the consolidated financial statements.
Determination of fair values A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
Fair value is defined in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Fair values have been determined for measurement and or disclosure purposes based on the methods described below.
Where applicable, further information about the assumptions made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset or liability.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 during the period.
There were no transfers between Levels 2 and 3 during theperiod.
There were no changes in valuation techniques during the period.
Investment and development property The fair value of investment and development property was determined by external, independent property valuers, having appropriate recognised professional qualifications and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Such a valuation takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
Independent valuers assess the fair value of the Groups investment and development property portfolio every six months.
Further information about fair value assumptions applicable to investment and development property is set out in Note 17.
Loans secured by real estate The fair value of loans secured by real estate was determined by independent valuers having appropriate and recent experience in the valuation of loans and real estate.
Such independent valuers assess the fair value of the Groups portfolio of loans secured by real estate every six months.
Further information about fair value assumptions applicable to loans secured by real estate is set out in Note 18.
C. Land and buildings The fair value of these own-use assets was determined by external, independent valuers, having appropriate recognised professional qualifications and recent experience in the location and category of the asset being valued.
Such a valuation takes into 98 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
Independent valuers assess the fair value of the Groups land and buildings every six months.
Further information about fair value assumptions applicable to land and buildings is set out in Note 19.
D. Borrowings The valuation technique used in the disclosures for borrowings and other debt is a comparison of debt stock to the marginal cost of debt from main funding markets in addition to discounting using the zero coupon discount curve of the relevant currency.
Further information about borrowings is set out in Note 25.
E. Derivative financial instruments The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is based on independent third party valuations.
Fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for theresidual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate based on government bonds, adjusting for credit risk whereappropriate.
The fair value of interest rate caps is based on independent third party valuations.
Fair value is estimated using Blacks model to calculate the net present value of expected future cash flows based on observable market volatility and interest rates, adjusting for credit risk, where appropriate.
The fair value of foreign currency options is based on independent third party valuations.
Fair value is estimated using a variant of the Black-Scholes model tailored for currency derivatives.
The net present value of expected future cash flows is calculated based on observable market foreign exchange volatility, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, adjusting for credit risk, where appropriate.
Further information about fair value assumptions applicable to derivative financial instruments is set out in Note 26.
Basis of segmentation The Group is organised into six business segments, against which the Group reports its segmental information, being office real estate, retail real estate, industrial real estate, residential real estate, loans secured by real estate and hotels.
These segments are reported separately because they offer different products or services and are managed separately because they require differentstrategies.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision makers which is updated as required by the business, who has been identified as the board of directors of the Company the Board.
The following summary describes the operations of each reportable segment: Segment Description Office real estate Property which is primarily used by commercial tenants Retail real estate Property comprising primarily high street retail or shopping centres, together with leisure assets Industrial real estate Property used by tenants primarily for the purposes of manufacturing and distribution, or mixed use Residential real estate Tenanted residential property, in the private rented sector Loans secured by real estate A loan that is in default or close to being in default, receivership or liquidation, where the borrower is typically not making full payments and the loan to value LTV is greater than 100% Hotels Ownership and management of hotels, namely Fairmont St Andrews Hotel United Kingdom and Portmarnock Hotel Ireland There are varying levels of integration between the office real estate, retail real estate, industrial real estate, residential real estate and hotel segments.
This integration consists primarily of shared asset management resources.
Corporate income and expenses, and assets and liabilities are items incurred centrally which are neither directly attributable nor reasonably allocable to individual segments.
The Groups key measure of underlying performance of the office real estate, retail real estate, industrial real estate and residential real estate segments is rental income as this measure illustrates and emphasises those segments contribution to the reported profits of the Group and the input of those segments to earnings per share.
By focusing the prime performance measurement on rental income, other statistical data such as valuation movements are separately highlighted for analysis and attention.
The Groups key measure of underlying performance of the loans secured by real estate segment is fair value gain as this measure illustrates and emphasises that segments contribution to the reported profits of the Group and the input of that segment to earnings per share.
The Groups key performance measure of underlying performance of the hotel sector is hotel revenue as this measure illustrates and emphasises that segments contribution to the reported profits of the Group and the input of that segment to earnings per share.
99 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued Information related to each reportable segment is set out below.
Segment profit loss before tax is used to measure performance because management believes that this information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of the respective segments relative to other entities that operate in similar sectors.
Investment property under development, as identified in Note 17A ii is allocated into a segment based on the current expected future use.
100 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information II.
Investment property under development, as identified in Note 17A ii is allocated into a segment based on the current expected future use 101 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued III.
Assets liabilities at 31 December 2016 Retail Industrial Residential Loans Office real real real secured by Segment 1 1 1 1 3 real estate estate estate estate real estate Hotels total Corporate Total m m m m m m m m m Assets Current assets 107.0 38.9 35.4 12.5 15.9 3.7 213.4 335.3 548.7 Total segment assets 1,594.7 825.7 206.2 244.9 83.5 77.2 3,032.2 335.6 3,367.8 Liabilities Total segment liabilities 323.0 428.8 49.6 4.9 0.2 4.0 810.5 1,021.4 1,831.9 2 IV.
Assets liabilities at 31 December 2015 Loans Office Retail Industrial Residential secured by Segment 1 1 1 1 3 realestate realestate realestate realestate real estate Hotels total Corporate Total Re-presented m m m m m m m m m Assets Current assets 82.9 43.8 16.4 5.0 1.8 3.1 153.0 253.2 406.2 Total segment assets 1,415.2 848.9 193.7 191.7 180.9 62.3 2,892.7 264.2 3,156.9 Liabilities Total segment liabilities 366.1 422.1 95.1 41.0 0.6 2.9 927.8 599.9 1,527.7 Footnotes: 1.
Prior periods have been re-presented on a basis consistent with the presentation adopted at 31 December 2016.
Such re-presentation was undertaken to remove intercompany transactions.
Within current assets the Corporate category comprises primarily cash and cash equivalents and within total segment assets, the Corporate categtory comprises primarily cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial assets.
Within total segment liabilities the Corporate category comprises primarily the unsecured borrowings and derivative financial liabilities.
Intercompany transactions have been removed from the calculation of segment assets and liabilities.
102 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information C. Geographic information The office real estate, retail real estate, industrial real estate and residential real estate segments are primarily in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Italy and Spain.
Italy and Spain are grouped together and reported as Rest of Europe.
The geographic information below analyses the Groups segment revenues, current assets and non-current assets, and total liabilities, by geography.
In presenting the following information, segment revenue, current assets and non-current assets, and total liabilities were based on the geographic location of the relevant asset.
Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m United Kingdom Rental income 124.0 107.9 Hotel revenue 13.0 14.2 Interest income on loans secured by real estate 6.0 13.0 Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral 4.1 10.5 Net change in fair value of investment and development property 77.5 113.8 Net change in fair value of loans secured by real estate 3.6 69.6 263.0 Ireland Rental income 42.7 29.0 Hotel revenue 6.4 5.8 Interest income on loans secured by real estate 0.3 0.4 Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral 2.0 4.1 Net change in fair value of investment and development property 50.7 88.1 Net change in fair value of loans secured by real estate 0.3 1.5 102.4 128.9 Rest of Europe Rental income 24.8 1.9 Hotel revenue Interest income on loans secured by real estate Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral 2.4 Net change in fair value of investment and development property 16.0 6.1 Net change in fair value of loans secured by real estate Other gains 0.8 43.2 8.8 Total Rental income 191.5 138.8 Hotel revenue 19.4 20.0 Interest income from loans secured by real estate 6.3 13.4 Gain on sale of investment property and loan collateral 8.5 14.6 Net change in fair value of investment and development property 10.8 208.0 Net change in fair value of loans secured by real estate 0.3 5.1 Other gains 0.8 215.2 400.7 103 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued II.
Within current and non-current assets, the Corporate category comprises primarily cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial assets.
Within total liabilities the Corporate category comprises primarily the unsecured borrowings and derivative financial liabilities.
Rental income The accounting policy applicable to rental income is set out in Note 3D i.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Rental income 166.3 121.9 Service charge income 20.6 14.6 Other property related income 4.6 2.3 191.5 138.8 Included within Other property related income is turnover rent in the amount of 0.4 million year ended 31 December 2015: 0.1million.
In addition, the Group received surrender premia totalling 1.4 million year ended 31 December 2015: 1.3 million.
104 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 8.
Property related expenses The accounting policy applicable to property related expenses is set out in Note 3L.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Service charge expense 20.6 14.6 Other property operating expenses 6.4 2.8 Fees payable to managing agents 2.5 1.7 Vacant property costs 2.4 1.0 Letting, marketing, legal and professional fees 2.1 1.4 Property insurance expense 0.7 0.7 Impairment charge on receivables 0.6 0.2 Ground rent 0.5 0.3 35.8 22.7 9.
Gain on sale of investment and development property and loan collateral The accounting policy applicable to gain on sale of investment and development property and loan collateral is set out in Note 3J.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Investment and development property Gross proceeds on disposal 260.4 97.9 Selling costs 4.4 2.2 Net proceeds on disposal 256.0 95.7 Carrying value 247.9 86.1 Gain on disposal 8.1 9.6 Loan collateral Gross proceeds on disposal 117.1 96.6 Selling costs 1.5 Net proceeds on disposal 115.6 96.6 Carrying value 115.2 91.6 Gain on disposal 0.4 5.0 8.5 14.6 10.
Hotel revenue The accounting policy applicable to hotel revenue is set out in Note 3D iii.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Room income 8.6 8.9 Food and beverage income 7.2 7.6 Other hotel income 3.6 3.5 19.4 20.0 105 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued 11.
Hotel cost of sales The accounting policy applicable to hotel cost of sales is set out in Note 3L.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Wages and salaries 7.0 6.2 Consumables Note 20 2.4 2.4 Depreciation Note 19 3.2 2.2 Other costs 3.7 3.6 16.3 14.4 12.
Administrative expenses The accounting policy applicable to administrative expenses is set out in Note 3L.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Consultancy and other advisory fees 8.2 6.9 General expenses 4.4 5.1 Employee benefits 1.6 0.6 Legal fees 1.1 0.8 Audit and related fees Note 39 0.7 0.5 Directors fees Note 31B i a 0.3 0.3 Acquisition related expenditure 0.1 1.7 16.4 15.9 Included in the above table are costs associated with the hotel segment as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Hotel administrative costs General expenses 1.7 2.6 Employee benefit 1.6 0.6 Consultancy and other advisory fees 1.5 1.8 4.8 5.0 13.
Finance income The accounting policies applicable to finance income are set out in Note 3D ii and Note 3F.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Interest income from loans secured by real estate 6.3 13.4 Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.6 6.9 14.0 106 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 14.
Finance costs The accounting policies applicable to finance costs are set out in Note 3G and Note 3P iii b.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Interest on secured borrowings 21.4 21.6 Interest on unsecured 550.0 million 3.25% note 13.6 3.0 Interest on standalone unsecured 500.0 million 3.95% bond 13.1 3.4 Amortisation of loan arrangement fees 5.5 3.4 Time value movement of foreign exchange zero premium options 1.0 2.3 Commitment fee and interest charge on revolving credit facility 1.4 1.1 Bond discount amortisation, net of amortisation of bond premia 0.7 0.3 Fair value movement on derivative financial instruments 0.9 0.8 Foreign currency gain loss 0.1 0.6 Bank fees and other costs 0.2 0.3 57.7 36.8 15.
Taxation The accounting policy applicable to taxation is set out in Note 3H.
Company The Company is tax resident in Jersey.
Jersey has a corporate tax rate of zero under schedule D of the Income Tax Jersey Law 1961 as amended, so the Company is not subject to tax in Jersey on its income or gains and is not subject to United Kingdom or other jurisdiction corporation tax on any dividend or interest income it receives.
No charge to Jersey taxation will arise on capitalgains.
Group The Directors conduct the affairs of the Group such that the management and control of the Group is exercised in Jersey and that, except as noted below, the Group does not carry on a trade in the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction.
The Group is liable to foreign tax on activities in its overseas subsidiaries.
Outside of Jersey, the Group has subsidiaries and funds in Luxembourg, the Republic of Ireland, Isle of Man, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom and investment and development property located in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Italy and Spain.
Luxembourg has a corporate tax rate of 29.22% on worldwide income including capital gains.
However, the Groups future tax liability is expected to be mitigated by the Luxembourg participation exemption and debt financing.
The Groups investment property located in Italy is held through a closed-end real estate alternative investment fund named Olimpia Investment Fund, wholly-owned by the Company and managed by Savills Investment Management Sgr Spa.
Olimpia Investment Fund is exempt from Italian tax on income and gains.
The Groups investment and development property located in the Republic of Ireland are held through two Irish Qualifying Investor Alternative Investment Funds.
During the year these funds were exempt from any direct Irish taxation on income and gains.
The Groups investment in St Andrews Bay Development Limited, a company domiciled in Scotland and which owns the Fairmont St Andrews Hotel, and the Groups investment in KW Pioneer Point UK OpCo Limited, a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and which owns the operations of Pioneer Point, are subject to United Kingdom corporate tax at a rate of 20% expected to reduce to 19% on 1 April 2017.
The Group is subject to corporate income tax at 25% on taxable profits generated within its Spanish subsidiaries.
The Group is subject to United Kingdom income tax at 20% on rental income arising on the investment properties, after deduction of allowable debt financing and allowable expenses.
The treatment of such costs and expenses is estimated in the overall tax liability for the Group and requires judgement and assumptions regarding their deductibility.
The directors have considered comparable market evidence and practice in determining the extent to which such items are allowable.
Taxation is currently calculated at a weighted average rate applicable to the relevant Group undertakings of 21.5% year ended 31 December 2015: 20%.
107 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued C. Amounts recognised in the profit or loss Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Current tax expense Current year 5.8 7.6 5.8 7.6 Deferred taxes Tax effect of losses not previously recognised 0.7 Tax effect of previously unrecognised deductible temporary differences 2.2 1.5 Tax expense on continuing operations 7.3 7.6 D. Reconciliation of effective tax rate The charge for the year can be reconciled to the consolidated income statement as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Tax expense reconciliation Profit before tax for the year 73.3 266.6 Income tax charge using weighted average applicable tax rate of 21.5% 2015: 20% 15.8 53.3 Non-taxable income 21.4 22.9 Non-taxable net fair value losses gains 13.7 23.3 Current year losses for which no deferred tax is recognised 0.3 0.1 Tax effect of losses not previously recognised 0.7 Tax effect of previously unrecognised deductible temporary differences 2.2 Expenses disallowed 0.8 0.4 Other adjustments 1.5 Changes in estimates related to prior years 1.9 Tax charge 7.3 7.6 Analysed as arising from: Investment and development property located in the United Kingdom 3.3 7.4 Investment and development property located in Spain 3.5 0.2 Luxembourg corporate taxes 0.5 7.3 7.6 108 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information E. Movement in deferred tax balances Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax asset 2.9 1.5 Deferred tax liability 2.4 0.5 1.5 Analysed as arising from: Investment property Opening balance Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.2 Closing balance 2.2 Tax losses Opening balance 1.5 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.7 1.5 Effects of translation to presentation currency 0.5 Closing balance 2.7 1.5 0.5 1.5 F. Unrecognised deferred tax asset Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items, because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can use the benefits therefrom.
The Group is only able to utilise the losses to offset taxable profits in certain discrete business streams.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Tax losses brought forward 10.5 10.0 Deductible temporary differences 4.7 4.6 15.2 14.6 Brought forward tax losses total 46.8 million December 2015: 44.6 million and brought forward deductible temporary differences total 23.6 million December 2015: 22.7 million.
The directors have established that it is uncertain whether future taxable profits would be available against which these amounts can be utilised, and therefore these amounts have been included in the balance of unrecognised deferred tax assets above.
109 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued 16.
Earnings, net asset value per share and EPRA metrics Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the consolidated profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the year and adjusting for shares to be issued in part settlement of the investment management fee for the quarter ended 31 December 2016, if any.
Basic net asset value NAV per share is calculated by dividing net assets in the consolidated balance sheet attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 2016.
Basic, diluted, EPRA earnings and Adjusted earnings per share reconciliation Year ended Year ended 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 1 1 m p m p Profit for the year after taxation 66.0 49.1 259.0 191.0 Adjusted for: Net change in fair value of investment and development property Note 17 10.8 8.0 208.0 153.4 Net change in the fair value of loans secured by real estate Note 18 0.3 0.2 5.1 3.8 Deferred taxes in respect of EPRA adjustments 3.0 2.2 Gain on sale of investment and development property and loan collateral Note9 and other gains 8.5 6.3 15.4 11.3 Taxes on gains on disposal 0.9 0.7 Fair value loss on interest rate caps Note 14 0.9 0.7 0.8 0.6 Debt close out costs 0.2 0.2 Time value of foreign exchange zero premium options Note 14 1.0 0.8 2.3 1.6 Acquisition related expenditure Note 12 0.1 1.7 1.3 EPRA earnings 74.1 55.2 35.3 26.0 Group adjustments: Performance fee 29.7 21.9 Adjusted earnings 74.1 55.2 65.0 47.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares Note 28B 134,364,625 135,613,838 Footnote: 1.
The European Public Real Estate Association EPRA issued Best Practices Recommendations, most recently in December 2014.
The EPRA earnings are presented to provide what the Company believes is a more appropriate assessment of the operational income accruing to the Groups activities.
Hence, the Company adjusts basic earnings for income and costs which are not of a recurrent nature or which may be more capital in nature.
In addition, the Group has made additional adjustments to EPRA earnings in order to remove other non-trading items not considered by EPRA in its Best Practice Recommendations, in order to present an Adjusted earnings figure.
110 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information B.
Represents the difference between the book value of borrowings and the fair value of borrowings.
EPRA has issued guidelines aimed at providing a measure of NAV on the basis of the long term fair values.
At each of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, there was no material deferred tax applicable to the business and there are no dilutive or potentially dilutive equity arrangements in existence.
In addition the Group reports an Adjusted NAV to illustrate EPRA NAV after the impact of fees recognised in the share-based payment reserve.
EPRA NNNAV is a measure to report the net asset value including fair value adjustments in respect of all material balance sheet items which are not reported at their fair value as part of EPRA NAV.
Investment and development property The accounting policies applicable to investment and development property are set out in Note 3J and the fair value disclosures contained in Note 5A, and the accounting policies applicable to assets held-for-sale are set out in Note 3N.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Investment property Opening balance 2,367.0 1,182.5 Acquisition of investment property 169.1 1,011.7 Acquisition of collateral from loans secured by real estate 139.9 Disposal of investment property 187.7 86.1 Improvements to investment property 47.0 22.4 Transfer from to investment property under development 148.5 3.2 Transfer to assets held-for-sale Note 37 48.3 51.0 Net change in fair value 35.0 173.0 Effects of translation to presentation currency 134.3 22.2 Closing balance 2,594.9 2,367.0 111 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Investment property under development Opening balance 133.2 35.8 Acquisition of investment property under development 20.1 28.8 Disposal of investment property under development 9.0 Development expenditure 47.6 31.8 Transfer from to investment property 148.5 3.2 Transfer to assets held-for-sale Note 37 11.1 Net change in fair value 24.2 35.0 Effects of translation to presentation currency 23.9 1.4 Closing balance 80.4 133.2 Disclosed as: Carrying value of investment and development property 2,675.3 2,500.2 Assets held-for-sale Note 37 59.4 51.0 1 Adjustment in respect of straight line rent Note 21 6.9 3.1 Fair value of investment and development property 2,741.6 2,554.3 Footnote: 1.
Included as a component of the Rent and other receivables balance in the consolidated balance sheet.
The historical cost of investment properties acquired during the year, inclusive of acquisition costs, is 169.1 million year ended 31December 2015: 1,011.7 million.
The total expenditure incurred to acquire investment properties under development during theyear is 20.1 million year ended 31 December 2015: 28.8 million.
Acquisition costs which comprise primarily stamp duty, legal services and other directly attributable costs arising from the transactions, amounted to 4.8 million year ended 31 December 2015: 34.5 million.
The net fair value loss of 10.8 million December 2015: net fair value gain 208.0 million recognised in respect of investment and development property has been recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Long term leasehold values included within investment properties amount to 355.8 million December 2015: 401.7 million.
The leasehold investment properties have lease terms ranging between 125 and 999 years December 2015: 125 to 999 years.
All other properties are freehold.
At 31 December 2016, the Group was contractually committed to 8.8 million December 2015: 66.1 million of future expenditure for the purchase, construction, development and enhancement of investment and development property.
The Group complies with IAS 40 Investment Properties.
A. Valuation process The Group utilises the staff of the Investment Manager and certain of its affiliates the Investment Manager Group who hold relevant internationally recognised professional qualifications and are experienced in valuing the types of properties in the applicable locations.
The valuations are based on: Information provided by the Investment Manager Group including rents, lease terms, revenue and capital expenditure.
Such information is derived from the Investment Manager Groups financial and property systems and is subject to the Groups overall control environment, and Valuation models used by the external valuers, including market related assumptions based on their professional judgement and market observation The Investment Manager reviews the valuations arrived at by the external valuers.
This review includes a discussion with the Board and separately with the external valuers on the assumptions used, the process and methodology undertaken and a review of the data considered by the external valuers.
The Board determines the Groups valuation policies and procedures for property valuation.
112 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The Board decides which external valuer to appoint to be responsible for the external valuations of the Groups properties.
Selection criteria include market knowledge, reputation, independence and whether professional standards are maintained.
The Board decides after discussions with the Groups external valuers and the Investment Manager: Whether a propertys fair value can be reliably determined Which valuation method should be applied for each property The assumptions made for unobservable inputs used in the valuation method for investment property the major unobservable inputs are estimated rent per square foot square metre unit, estimated rental value and equivalent yield, and The assumptions made for unobservable inputs used in the valuation method for investment property under development the major unobservable inputs are, as appropriate to each development asset, build cost per square foot square metre, net initial yield, sales value per square foot square metre and price per acre The fair value of the Groups investment and development property at 31 December 2016 has been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at that date by our external valuers.
CBRE valued all investment and development properties, except for the Italian portfolio which was valued by Colliers Real Estate Services Italia S. r. l. con socio unico together, the Valuers.
The valuations performed by the Valuers, conform to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, the Valuation Standards of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Professional Standards 2014 the RICS Red Book and with the International Valuation Boards International Valuation Standards, and were arrived at by reference to market comparables for similar properties.
The Valuers submit and present summary reports to the Groups Audit Committee.
The Valuers are independent and external to the Group and the Investment Manager.
Valuations are performed bi-annually and are performed consistently across all properties in the Groups portfolio.
The valuation dates are 30 June and 31 December, and a valuation is normally conducted regardless of the date of acquisition.
This includes a physical inspection of all properties, at least once a year.
In line with IFRS 13 all investment properties are valued on the basis of their highest and best use.
When considering the highest and best use a valuer will consider, on a property by property basis, its actual and potential uses which are physically, legally and financially viable.
Where the highest and best use differs from the existing use, the valuer will consider the cost and likelihood of achieving and implementing this change in arriving at its valuation.
Annual valuation fees are calculated as a fixed percentage of the value of the investment and development property, as agreed between the Group and the Valuers.
The Valuers have advised us that the fees earned by each of them from the Group are less than 5% of their total revenue in any year.
In addition to the valuation work, CBRE has carried out agency and professional services on behalf of the Group since inception.
The Group, consistent with EPRAs guidance, consider that all of its investment and development property falls within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5A.
The valuations have been prepared on the basis of Market Value which is defined in the RICS Valuation Standards as: The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Market Value as defined in the RICS Valuation Standards is the equivalent of fair value under IFRS.
Investment property To determine the value of investment property, the income approach is used.
This involves applying market derived capitalisation yields to current and market derived future income streams with appropriate adjustments for income voids arising from vacancies, or rent-free periods.
These capitalisation yields and future income streams are derived from comparable property and leasing transactions and are considered to be key inputs in the valuation.
Other factors that are taken into account include the tenure of the property, tenancy details, planning, building and environmental factors that might affect the property.
The comparison methodology is used for residential properties whereby the fair value is calculated using data from recent market transactions.
The following tables set out the valuation techniques and the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation of the Groups investment property.
113 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued I.
31 December 2016 Fair value at Range 31 December 2016 Weighted 1,2 Asset class m Valuation technique Input Low High average United Kingdom 3 Retail 435.8 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 4.11 154.19 14.70 4 ERV per sq ft 4.11 193.83 14.47 Equivalent yield % 3.2 11.7 6.3 Office 830.1 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 8.75 57.18 19.82 ERV per sq ft 6.00 70.00 21.98 Equivalent yield % 4.9 8.5 6.1 Industrial 171.2 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 1.25 11.08 4.32 ERV per sq ft 1.25 11.96 4.55 Equivalent yield % 5.2 9.1 6.9 Aggregate UnitedKingdom excluding Residential 1,437.1 Annual rent per sq ft 1.25 154.19 12.68 ERV per sq ft 1.25 193.88 13.49 Equivalent yield % 3.2 11.7 6.3 Residential 79.6 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per unit Na Na Na ERV per unit 12,600.00 20,700.00 16,504.00 Equivalent yield % 3.9 3.9 3.9 Aggregate UnitedKingdom includingResidential 1,516.7 Ireland Retail 159.3 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 6.25 302.33 30.57 ERV per sq ft 6.25 232.56 27.44 Equivalent yield % 5.0 7.4 5.7 Office 524.2 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 13.88 52.69 25.13 ERV per sq ft 17.00 51.50 40.10 Equivalent yield % 4.6 6.7 5.1 Aggregate Ireland excluding Residential 683.5 Annual rent per sq ft 6.25 302.33 26.80 ERV per sq ft 6.25 232.56 36.21 Equivalent yield % 4.6 7.6 5.3 Residential 142.7 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per unit 18,422.00 20,463.00 18,031.00 ERV per unit 19,837.00 23,757.00 20,409.00 Equivalent yield % 4.6 5.4 5.0 Aggregate Ireland including Residential 826.2 Rest of Europe 5 Retail Spain 136.3 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq m 34.68 1,237.00 139.14 ERV per sq m 38.40 900.00 172.23 Equivalent yield % 5.6 9.3 6.8 6 Office Italy 170.1 DCF Annual rent per sq m 86.40 180.80 139.40 ERV per sq m 70.00 210.00 142.70 Equivalent yield % 6.2 8.6 7.8 Aggregate Rest of Europe 306.4 Total 2,649.3 Footnotes: 1.
Includes adjustment in respect of straight line leases, which is recognised in the Rent and other receivables component of the consolidated balancesheet.
114 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information II.
31 December 2015 Fair value at Range 31 December 2015 Weighted 1,2 Asset class m Valuation technique Input Low High average United Kingdom 3 Retail 538.4 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 2.78 154.19 14.27 4 ERV per sq ft 3.50 171.98 14.05 Equivalent yield % 3.3 11.8 6.3 Office 842.4 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 5.99 52.50 20.22 ERV per sq ft 6.00 70.00 22.14 Equivalent yield % 4.0 12.0 5.9 Industrial 179.4 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 1.25 10.58 4.43 ERV per sq ft 1.25 11.52 4.53 Equivalent yield % 4.5 10.0 6.4 Aggregate UnitedKingdom excluding Residential 1,560.2 Annual rent per sq ft 1.25 154.19 12.89 ERV per sq ft 1.25 171.98 13.51 Equivalent yield % 3.3 12.0 6.1 Residential 66.4 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per unit Na Na Na ERV per unit 12,600.00 20,700.00 16,504.00 Equivalent yield % 4.0 4.0 4.0 Aggregate UnitedKingdom includingResidential 1,626.6 Ireland Retail 153.2 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 6.25 302.33 30.21 ERV per sq ft 5.00 302.33 26.77 Equivalent yield % 3.8 7.9 5.7 Office 306.3 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq ft 15.43 50.85 34.90 ERV per sq ft 15.50 50.00 40.07 Equivalent yield % 4.6 8.0 5.0 Aggregate Ireland excluding Residential 459.5 Annual rent per sq ft 6.25 302.33 32.97 ERV per sq ft 5.00 302.33 34.60 Equivalent yield % 3.8 8.0 5.3 Residential 76.7 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per unit 17,837.00 24,450.00 18,919.00 ERV per unit 18,667.00 29,250.00 19,977.00 Equivalent yield % 4.7 5.8 4.9 Aggregate Ireland including Residential 536.2 Rest of Europe 5 Retail Spain 116.7 Yield capitalisation Annual rent per sq m 30.95 1,237.00 140.32 ERV per sq m 39.00 660.03 166.97 Equivalent yield % 5.4 9.5 7.0 6 Office Italy 141.6 DCF Annual rent per sq m 86.40 180.80 139.40 ERV per sq m 60.00 200.00 130.60 Equivalent yield % 6.2 9.1 7.6 Aggregate Rest of Europe 258.3 Total 2,421.1 Footnotes: 1. lncludes adjustment in respect of straight line leases, which is recognised in the Rent and other receivables component of the consolidated balance sheet.
115 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued ii.
Investment property under development At 31 December 2016, Investment property under development includes: A retail property at Puerta del Sol 9 in Madrid, Spain Residential real estate at Postigo fide San Martn 3 in Madrid, Spain for conversion into a hotel An office building at Santisima Trinidad 5 in Madrid, Spain for conversion to residential real estate A second generation office building in Dublin, Ireland Schoolhouse Lane, and A site in suburban County Dublin, Ireland the Stillorgan Leisureplex At 31 December 2015 this caption also included the following assets, all of which achieved practical completion during the year ended 31 December 2016: A second generation office building in Dublin, Ireland Baggot Plaza, and A partially built development site in the Central Park portfolio in Dublin, Ireland Block K Investment property under development in Ireland is valued using the Investment method, with deduction for costs necessary to complete the development.
Investment property under development in the Rest of Europe is valued using the residual method which is the investment method, with a deduction for costs necessary to complete the development together with an allowance for the remaining risk.
Development land has been valued using the comparison method, arriving at a price per acre.
31 December 2016 Fair value at Range 31 December 2016 Weighted 1 Asset class m Valuation technique Input Low High average Ireland Investment property under development 9.0 Investment Build cost per sq ft 187.0 187.0 187.0 ERV per sq ft 52.0 52.0 52.0 Equivalent yield % 5.5 5.5 5.5 Development land 14.2 Comparison Price per acre 000 1,111 7,195 5,244 Rest of Europe Investment property under development 69.1 Residual Build cost per sq m 880.00 1,015.00 945.00 Sales value per sq m 3,900.00 5,300.00 4,887.00 ERV per sq m 875.00 875.00 875.00 Net initial yield % 3.8 3.8 3.8 Total 92.3 II.
31 December 2015 Fair value at Range 31 December 2015 Weighted 1 Asset class m Valuation technique Input Low High average Ireland Investment property under development 92.7 Residual Build cost per sq ft 56.76 158.30 101.12 ERV per sq ft 15.00 50.00 31.90 Equivalent yield % 4.7 7.0 5.8 Rest of Europe Investment property under development 40.5 Residual Build cost per sq m 690.00 1,390.00 1,293.00 Sales value per sq m 3,660.00 5,400.00 4,699.00 ERV per sq m 770.00 1,040.00 908.00 Net initial yield % 3.5 4.0 3.7 Total 133.2 Fotnote: 1.
116 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information B.
Sensitivity of measurement to variance of significant unobservable inputs There are inter-relationships between all these unobservable inputs as they are determined by market conditions.
The existence of an increase in more than one unobservable input would be to magnify the impact on the valuation.
The impact on the valuation will be mitigated by the inter-relationship of two unobservable inputs moving in directions which have an opposite impact on value for example an increase in rent may be offset by an increase in yield, resulting in no net impact on the valuation.
However if the inputs move in opposite directions for example ERV increases and equivalent yield decreases, valuation movements can be amplified whereas if they move in the same direction, they may offset reducing the overall net valuation movement.
Investment property Rents and ERVs have a direct relationship to fair value, while equivalent yield has an inverse relationship.
The following table shows the impact on the fair value of investment property by applying a sensitivity to significant unobservableinputs.
Includes adjustment in respect of straight line leases, which is recognised in the Rent and other receivables component of the consolidated balance sheet.
117 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued ii.
Investment property under development An increase decrease in costs to complete and the discount factor will decrease increase valuations respectively.
The following table shows the impact on the fair value of investment property under development by applying a sensitivity to significant unobservable inputs used.
31 December 2016 Fair value at Impact on valuation Impact on valuations Impact on valuations 31 December of a 5% change in of a 5% change in of a 25 bps change in 1 2016 build costs ERV sales value net initial yield Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m m m m Ireland Investment property under development 9.0 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.6 Development land 14.2 Rest of Europe Investment property under development 69.1 0.3 0.3 3.7 3.7 3.8 4.3 92.3 0.4 0.4 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.9 II.
31 December 2015 Fair value at Impact on valuation Impact on valuations Impact on valuations 31 December of a 5% change in of a 5% change in of a 25 bps change in 1 2015 build costs ERV sales value net initialyield Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m m m m Ireland Investment property under development 92.7 1.1 1.1 5.6 5.6 6.4 7.2 Rest of Europe Investment property under development 40.5 0.4 0.3 2.7 2.8 2.3 2.6 133.2 1.5 1.4 8.3 8.4 8.7 9.8 Footnote: 1.
C. Fair value of collateral At 31 December 2016 the Group had pledged investment properties with a fair value of 1,250.1 million December 2015: 1,567.8 million.
See further details in Note 25F.
Loans secured by real estate The accounting policy applicable to loans secured by real estate is set out in Note 3P i c and the fair value disclosures contained in Note 5B.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Opening balance 179.2 211.0 Acquisition of loans secured by real estate 130.4 Disposal of collateral 115.2 161.9 Net fair value movement 0.3 5.1 Effects of translation to presentation currency 3.3 5.4 Closing balance 67.6 179.2 Loans secured by real estate are non-performing and were acquired at a discount to their nominal value reflecting their distressed state at the time of acquisition.
At 31 December 2016, substantially all of the loans are past due.
None of the loans are expected to be repaid by recourse to the original borrower, although income from certain underlying collateral properties is being generated.
The majority of the loans were the subject of a receivership process when acquired and thus all cash flow from the property is transferred to the Group.
As a result of these factors, no disclosures are made in relation to maturity, age or interest rate risk.
118 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information The objective in purchasing these loans was to generate returns for the Group in the following ways: Property operating income will be generated from the portfolio of loans secured by real estate Disposal of the collateral assets over time to achieve a redemption of the loan at a value greater than the acquisition cost, or Acquisition of the collateral asset by the Company for inclusion in the investment and development property portfolio The Board is responsible for determining the fair value of the loans secured by real estate bi-annually.
The valuation dates are 30 June and 31 December.
Duff & Phelps Ltd. an independent valuation firm, provided third party valuation consulting services to the Board which consisted of certain limited procedures that the Board identified and requested them to perform.
The limited procedures included: Performing an analysis of general market data including economic, governmental, environmental, credit market and local property market trends as they may affect the loans secured by real estate and the collateral properties Holding discussions with the Groups Investment Manager and the Board to understand expectations and intent regarding each loan secured by real estate, and to understand investment strategy and performance Reviewing third party appraisal reports of the underlying collateral properties Considering observable market inputs for assets similar to each of the loans secured by real estate and to the collateral properties to support the valuation metrics, capitalisation rates and or discount rates Selecting appropriate valuation approaches based on the profile of each of the loans secured by real estate Placing reliance on the cash flow models prepared by the Investment Manager on behalf of the Group which are based on the contractual terms of each of the loans secured by real estate and the Groups expectations of proceeds from those collateral properties, together with reviewing the Groups cash flow models for mathematical accuracy Assessing the implied discount rate used to discount to present value of the cash flows to arrive at a fair value conclusion through benchmarking against similar securities and market indices Performing a check of the cash flow models prepared by the Investment Manager on behalf of the Group, and confirming such models were consistent with the models used by the Investment Manager on behalf of the Group for investment purposes, and Analysing other facts and data considered to be pertinent to the loans secured by real estate and the collateral properties As at 31 December 2016, Duff & Phelps Ltd. performed procedures on each of the investments comprising 100% of the fair value of loans secured by real estate at that date.
A. Valuation process In estimating the fair value of the loans secured by real estate, the income approach was used.
This is a valuation technique that provides an estimation of the fair value of an asset or business based on expectations about the cash flows that an asset or business would generate over time.
The income approach begins with an estimate of the annual cash flows expected to be generated over a discrete projection period.
The estimated cash flows for each of the years in the discrete projection period are then converted to their present value equivalent using a rate of return appropriate for the risk of achieving the projected cash flows.
The present value of the estimated cash flows is then added to the present value equivalent of the residual value of the asset if any or the business at the end of the discrete projection period to arrive at an estimate of the fair value.
In estimating the fair value of the Avon portfolio in 2015, the pending sales price, less costs to complete the transaction together with the application of a discount to reflect uncertainty of the deal closing was used.
The underlying collateral for this portfolio was sold by the administrator appointed to the borrower during the year.
In assessing the fair value of the loans secured by real estate, Duff & Phelps Ltd have referenced valuations performed by CBRE on the underlying collateral prepared in conformity with the RICS Red Book and with the International Valuation Boards International Valuation Standards, as described in Note 17.
At 31 December 2016, the value of the underlying collateral was 69.9 million December 2015: 173.2 million.
Valuation fees are based on a fixed amount agreed between the Group and Duff & Phelps Ltd and are independent of the portfolio value.
Duff & Phelps Ltd. has advised us that the fees earned by them from the Group are less than 5% of their total revenue in any year.
The basis for the fees charged for the valuation of the underlying collateral is set out in Note 17.
The Group consider that all of its loans secured by real estate assets fall within Level 3, of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5B.
The key unobservable inputs used in the valuation of the Groups loans secured by real estate at 31 December 2016 are the discount rates used which are based on investment opportunities to deliver similar risk-adjusted returns to an investor.
The discount rate applied to the loans, and which is dependent on the underlying loan portfolio, ranges from 8.1% to 11.1% December 2015: 8.1% to 11.2%.
During the year, interest income totalling 6.3 million year ended 31 December 2015: 13.4 million was recognised in the consolidated income statement Note 13.
Sensitivity of measurement to variance of significant unobservable inputs Yield has an inverse relationship to valuation.
There are inter-relationships between the unobservable inputs as they are determined by market conditions.
The impact on the valuation will be mitigated by the inter-relationship of two unobservable inputs moving in directions which have an opposite impact on value.
For example, cap rates, expected lease renewal dates, and or expected disposal values, may be offset by an increase in yield, resulting in no net impact on the valuation.
119 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued I.
31 December 2016 Fair value Impact on valuations 31 December of 100 bps change in 2016 discount rate Increase Decrease m m m United Kingdom 44.4 0.3 0.3 Ireland 23.2 1.1 1.1 67.6 1.4 1.4 II.
31 December 2015 Fair value Impact on valuations 31 December of 100 bps change in 2015 discount rate Increase Decrease m m m United Kingdom 157.3 0.3 0.3 Ireland 21.9 1.0 1.1 179.2 1.3 1.4 19.
Property, plant and equipment The accounting policy applicable to property, plant and equipment is set out in Note 3K and the fair value disclosures set out inNote5C.
A. Reconciliation of carrying amount Land and Plant and Fixtures and buildings equipment fittings Other Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2015 55.2 1.6 2.9 0.2 59.9 Additions 2.8 0.1 0.9 0.2 4.0 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.2 Revaluation of land and buildings 2.6 2.6 Effects of translation to presentation currency 0.8 0.8 Balance at 31 December 2015 54.6 1.6 3.8 0.3 60.3 Additions 9.6 0.2 0.4 10.2 Transfer on completion of work in progress 0.3 0.3 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.3 0.3 Effects of translation to presentation currency 3.5 0.3 3.8 Balance at 31 December 2016 68.3 2.1 4.2 74.6 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2015 0.1 0.1 0.2 Charge for the year 1.3 0.2 0.7 2.2 Revaluation of land and buildings 1.3 1.3 Balance at 31 December 2015 0.3 0.8 1.1 Charge for the year 1.6 0.5 1.1 3.2 Write-offs 1.3 1.3 Revaluation of land and buildings 1.6 1.6 Effects of translation to presentation currency 0.1 0.1 0.2 Balance at 31 December 2016 0.9 0.7 1.6 Carrying amounts At 31 December 2015 54.6 1.3 3.0 0.3 59.2 At 31 December 2016 68.3 1.2 3.5 73.0 There are no restrictions on title and no property, plant and equipment has been pledged as security.
120 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information B. Valuation process The Board determines the Groups valuation policies and procedures for the valuation of property, plant and equipment.
The Board decides which external valuer to appoint to be responsible for the external valuations of the Groups property, plant and equipment, which represents its hotel assets.
The Board decides after discussions with the Groups external valuers, CBRE, and the Investment Manager: Whether a propertys fair value can be reliably determined Which valuation method should be applied for each asset at 31 December 2016, the discounted cash flow methodology was applied using the projected net earnings capitalised with a market capitalisation rate and discount rate, and The assumptions made for unobservable inputs used in the valuation method the major unobservable inputs are estimated hotel net operating income, occupancy rate, discount rate, exit yield and average daily rate ADR Annual valuation fees are calculated as a fixed percentage of the value of property, plant and equipment, as agreed between the Group and the valuer.
The valuer has advised us that the fees earned by them from the Group are less than 5% of their total revenue in any year.
The Group, consistent with EPRAs guidance, consider that all of its property, plant and equipment falls within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5C.
The table below summarises the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation of the Groups property, plant and equipment.
31 December 2016 Fair value at 31 December 2016 1 Asset class m Inputs United Kingdom Ireland United Kingdom 41.2 Net operating income 4.0m 2.4m Ireland 31.8 Occupancy % 74.0 68.0 Discount rate % 8.8 9.0 Exit yield % 6.8 7.0 ADR 162.36 115.00 Total 73.0 Stabilised year 2021 2018 II.
31 December 2015 Fair value at 31 December 2015 1 Asset class m Inputs United Kingdom Ireland United Kingdom 36.9 Net operating income 3.5m 2.8m Ireland 22.3 Occupancy % 72.0 72.0 Discount rate % 9.0 9.0 Exit yield % 6.5 7.0 ADR 155.64 108.12 Total 59.2 Stabilised year 2020 2018 Footnote: 1.
Inputs are presented in connection with a stabilised year.
There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.
C. Sensitivity of measurement to variance of significant unobservable inputs There are inter-relationships between all these unobservable inputs as they are determined by market conditions.
For example, an increase in hotel net operating income may be offset by an increase in exit yield, resulting in no net impact on the valuation.
However, if the inputs move in opposite directions for example ADR increases and exit yield decreases, valuation movements can be amplified whereas if they move in the same direction, they may offset reducing the overall net valuation movement.
121 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued I.
31 December 2016 Fair value at Impact on valuations Impact on valuations Impact on valuations Impact on valuations 31 December of a 10% change in of 10% change in of 100 bps change in of a 50 bps change in Impact of a 5% 2016 estimated Hotel NOI occupancy discount rate exit yield change in ADR Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m m m m m m m m United Kingdom 41.2 4.1 4.1 11.5 11.5 5.6 7.6 3.0 3.5 9.9 9.8 Ireland 31.8 3.3 3.3 6.2 6.2 4.2 5.6 2.2 2.6 1.4 1.4 73.0 7.4 7.4 17.7 17.7 9.8 13.2 5.2 6.1 11.3 11.2 II.
31 December 2015 Fair value at Impact on valuations Impact on valuations Impact on valuations Impact on valuations 31 December of a 10% change in of 10% change in of 100 bps change in of a 50 bps change in Impact of a 5% 2015 estimated Hotel NOI occupancy discount rate exit yield change in ADR Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m m m m m m m m United Kingdom 36.9 3.6 3.6 11.7 11.7 5.9 8.1 3.2 3.7 10.0 10.0 Ireland 22.3 2.7 2.7 8.6 8.6 3.3 4.4 1.8 2.0 1.8 1.8 59.2 6.3 6.3 20.3 20.3 9.2 12.5 5.0 5.7 11.8 11.8 20.
Inventories The accounting policy applicable to inventories is set out in Note 3M.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Current Consumable stores 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Inventories of 2.4 million December 2015: 2.4 million were expensed during the year Note 11.
The carrying value of inventories approximates their fair value.
Rent and other receivables The accounting policy applicable to rent and other receivables is set out in Note 3P i b.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Current Rent and trade receivables 13.8 9.0 Prepayments and other receivables 9.7 6.6 Straight line rent 6.9 3.1 VAT receivable 2.1 7.4 Deposits paid 1.7 Prepaid borrowing costs on undrawn facility 0.6 32.5 28.4 The Groups exposure to credit risks and impairment losses related to rent and other receivables is disclosed in Note 27C iii.
Deposits paid At 31 December 2016 deposits totalling Nil 31 December 2015: 1.7 million were paid on executing the purchase agreements for a number of acquisitions.
122 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information B.
Rent and trade receivables The Group does not typically extend credit terms to its investment property tenants, instead requiring them to pay in advance.
Consequently the Group is not exposed to a significant credit risk.
Rent for investment property falls due on contractual quarter days.
Rent and service charge receivables are non-interest bearing and are typically due within 30 days.
Rent on tenanted residential property falls due monthly, and is also payable in advance.
The Groups exposure to credit risk in its hotel operations is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
There is no concentration of credit risk or dependence on individual customers.
Management of the hotels has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
At 31 December 2016 the maximum exposure to credit risk for rent and trade receivables was 14.5 million December 2015: 9.2 million.
Aged rent and trade receivables I.
31 December 2015 Allowance for impaired Gross balances Net m m m Current 6.5 6.5 Due 31 60 days 0.6 0.6 Due 61 90 days 0.8 0.8 Due 91 120 days 0.5 0.5 Due 121 days and more 0.8 0.2 0.6 9.2 0.2 9.0 Allowances for impaired balances are calculated on the basis of managements knowledge of the tenants, business and the market.
Allowance for impaired balances The table below provides a reconciliation of changes in allowances for impaired balances: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Opening balance 0.2 0.5 Additions 0.7 1.2 Written off as a bad debt 0.1 0.2 Released 0.1 1.3 Closing balance 0.7 0.2 The Board believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due by more than 30 days are still collectible in full, based on historical payment behaviour.
123 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued 22.
Cash and cash equivalents The accounting policy applicable to cash and cash equivalents is set out in Note 3P i a.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Current Cash at bank and on hand 210.0 146.1 Short-term deposits 246.5 180.4 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet 456.5 326.5 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated cash flow statement 456.5 326.5 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 approximates to its carrying value.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to cash and cash equivalents, as the Group holds cash accounts with a number of major financial institutions where credit risk is not considered significant.
The credit ratings of the financial institutions where the Group holds its balances are all investment grade according to Moodys ratings.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirement of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 0.197% at 31 December 2016 December 2015: 0.153%.
All deposits are immediately available.
Trade and other payables The accounting policy applicable to trade and other payables is set out in Note 3P ii.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Trade creditors and accruals 38.1 37.7 Corporate and income taxes 9.2 10.3 VAT payable 7.1 18.6 Security deposits 5.6 3.8 Other liabilities 1.3 1.5 61.3 71.9 Current 58.2 68.6 Non-current 3.1 3.3 61.3 71.9 Trade creditors and accruals primarily comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
Information about the Groups exposure to currency risk is included in Note 27C ii b and liquidity risk is included in Note 27C iv.
124 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 24.
Deferred income The accounting policy applicable to deferred income is set out in Note 3P ii.
Borrowings The accounting policies applicable to borrowings are set out in Notes 3C i ii, Note 3P ii, Note 27 and the fair value disclosures set out in Note 5D.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Secured 721.8 841.3 Unsecured 969.5 594.8 1,691.3 1,436.1 Unamortised borrowing costs, discounts and bond premia 14.1 21.8 1,677.2 1,414.3 Disclosed as: Current 0.6 0.3 Non-current 1,676.6 1,414.0 1,677.2 1,414.3 A. Reconciliation of carrying value Movements in the Groups borrowings are analysed in the following table.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Opening balance 1,414.3 545.9 Principal repayments on secured debt 230.0 50.6 Draw down of new secured debt 67.1 351.2 Proceeds on issue of 300.0 million 3.95% unsecured 7 year bond 295.2 Proceeds on 200.0 million tap of 300.0 million 3.95% unsecured 7 year bond 200.0 Proceeds on issue of 400.0 million 3.25% unsecured 10 year bond 279.3 Proceeds on 150.0 million tap of 400.0 million 3.25% unsecured 10 year bond 118.6 Premium on bond tap and note tap 5.9 Borrowing costs incurred 3.3 8.6 Amortisation of borrowing costs and bond discounts, net of accretion of premia from bond and note taps 6.2 3.7 Effects of translation to presentation currency 98.4 1.8 Closing balance 1,677.2 1,414.3 The tables above, together with the analysis set out in Notes 25B, 25C and 25D include unamortised borrowing costs which will be released to the consolidated income statement over the period of the associated borrowing.
The analysis set out in Notes 25E and 25H excludes the effect of deducting unamortised borrowing costs.
125 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued B.
31 December 2016 1 2 2 Draw down date Effective interest rate Maturity Fair value Book value % m m 184.0 million mortgage borrowing 24 September 2014 Libor 1.80% December 2019 164.9 167.3 3 264.0 million mortgage borrowing 17 December 2014 Euribor 2.125% December 2019 205.7 205.4 116.6 million mortgage borrowing 31 January 2015 Libor 2.50% 30 January 2018 45.7 45.6 70.7 million mortgage borrowing 31 January 2015 2.90% 30 January 2020 72.4 70.4 165.0 million mortgage borrowing 31 January 2015 2.91% 30 January 2023 167.4 161.0 4 37.25 million mortgage borrowing 22 January 2016 Euribor 1.60% 29 December 2030 31.6 30.6 4 50.0 million mortgage borrowing 1 March 2016 Euribor 1.60% 1 March 2031 37.0 36.0 724.7 716.3 Unamortised borrowing costs included above 5.5 721.8 Footnotes: 1.
Draw down date or date of acquisition, whichever is later.
The fair value of floating rate borrowings have been established using an equivalent market value established by the Investment Manager determining the equivalent credit spread for this debt at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings have been calculated using a discounted cash flowapproach.
This facility contains two options to extend the maturity date by one year each upon satisfaction of the conditions per the facility agreement and payment of a 0.2% extension fee.
31 December 2015 1 2 2 Draw down date Effective interest rate Maturity Fair value Book value % m m As at 31 December 2015 58.2 million mortgage borrowing 24 June 2014 Euribor 2.75% March 2019 35.5 34.6 3 127.0 million mortgage borrowing 7 August 2014 Libor 1.90% October 2019 101.7 100.0 184.0 million mortgage borrowing 24 September 2014 Libor 1.80% December 2019 171.1 174.2 4 264.0 million mortgage borrowing 17 December 2014 Euribor 2.125% December 2019 194.6 193.3 116.6 million mortgage borrowing 31 January 2015 Libor 2.50% 30 January 2018 98.2 98.5 70.7 million mortgage borrowing 31 January 2015 2.90% 30 January 2020 70.3 70.3 165.0 million mortgage borrowing 31 January 2015 2.91% 30 January 2023 158.3 160.8 5 3.1 million mortgage borrowing 19 May 2015 2.92% 1 September 2037 2.3 2.3 832.0 834.0 Unamortised borrowing costs included above 7.3 841.3 Footnotes: 1.
This facility contains two options to extend the maturity date by one year each upon 90 to 120 days prior notice, satisfaction of the conditions per the facility agreement and payment of a 0.125% extension fee.
The Group also has access to an 8.0 million facility in connection with a Spanish asset.
This facility is currently undrawn and it will expire on 29 December 2020.
Debt service is payable quarterly on all secured borrowings.
126 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information C. Bonds and notes I.
31 December 2016 1 1 Issue date Effective interest rate Maturity Fair value Book value % m m 500.0 million 3.95%, 7 year unsecured bond 30 June 2015 3.95% 30 June 2022 509.4 497.3 550.0 million 3.25%, 10 year unsecured note 12 November 2015 3.25% 12 November 2025 478.7 464.1 988.1 961.4 Unamortised borrowing costs, discounts and premia 8.1 969.5 II.
31 December 2015 1 1 Issue date Effective interest rate Maturity Fair value Book value % m m 300.0 million 3.95%, 7 year unsecured bond 30 June 2015 3.95% 30 June 2022 295.1 293.5 400.0 million 3.25%, 10 year unsecured note 12 November 2015 3.25% 12 November 2025 294.3 287.9 589.4 581.4 Unamortised borrowing costs and discounts 13.4 594.8 Footnote: 1.
The fair value of each of the unsecured bonds and notes has been calculated using the quoted market price as at 31 December 2015 and the applicable balance sheet date.
500.0 million 3.95% senior unsecured bond due 2022 a.
Bond tap On 19 September 2016, the Company completed a tap of this bond for an aggregate principal amount of 200.0 million.
This bond tap will be aggregated with the 300.0 million bond and together they will form a single series.
The tap was issued at a yield of 3.572% and will mature on 30 June 2022.
They were rated BBB outlook stable by Standard & Poors.
Multi-currency Euro Medium Term Note Programme EMTN Programme On 5 November 2015 the Group announced the establishment of a 2.0 billion EMTN Programme.
Under the EMTN Programme, the Group may issue, from time to time, up to 2.0 billion of various types of debt securities in certain markets and currencies.
The EMTN Programme was assigned a rating of BBB by Standard & Poors.
Note tap On 19 April 2016, the Company completed a tap of this note for an aggregate principal amount of 150.0 million.
This note tap will be aggregated with the 400.0 million bond and together they will form a single series.
The tap was issued at a yield of 3.039% and will mature on 12 November 2025.
Interest on the unsecured standalone bond and note is payable annually on the anniversary of draw down.
127 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued D. Revolving credit facility I.
31 December 2016 Draw down date Effective interest rate Maturity Fair value Book value % m m 225.0 million revolving credit facility 29 August 2014 Na 29 August 2017 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 II.
31 December 2015 Draw down date Effective interest rate Maturity Fair value Book value % m m 225.0 million revolving credit facility 29 August 2014 Na 29 August 2017 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 The 225.0 million RCF is unsecured and attracts a floating rate interest.
Any portion of the RCF utilised in Euro will bear interest at a rate of Euribor plus a margin which ratchets between 160 bps and 260 bps depending on the Group LTV, whilst any portion of the RCF which is utilised in Pound Sterling will bear interest at a rate of Libor plus a margin which ratchets between 160 bps and 260 bps depending on the Group LTV.
At 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, and as at the date of the consolidated financial statements, the RCF was undrawn.
The Group incurs non-utilisation fees on the undrawn portion of the RCF.
At 31 December 2016 the weighted average charge on the undrawn facilities was 55 bps December 2015: 55 bps.
E. Maturity profile of borrowings The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Due within one year 0.6 0.3 Due between two and five years 498.2 677.3 Due between six and ten years 1,158.8 757.1 Due greater than ten years 33.7 1.4 Closing balance 1,691.3 1,436.1 F. Collateral The borrowings set out in Note 25B are secured by fixed charges over certain investment and development property assets.
The fair value of investment and development property over which security has been granted is 1,250.1 million December 2015: 1,567.8million.
The RCF and the Groups bond and note are unsecured.
G. Valuation The fair values of the Groups mortgage debt have been estimated by calculating the present value of the future cash flows, using appropriate market discount rates and are deemed to be valued within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5D.
The fair value of the Groups bonds and notes have been estimated with reference to the market value of these instruments at the balance sheet date and are deemed to be valued within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5D.
128 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information H. Interest rate profile of borrowings I.
31 December 2016 Weighted average Weighted Weighted period for average average which rate period to Total Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate isfixed maturity m m m % Years Years Gross borrowings in: Pound Sterling 946.8 214.4 732.4 3.23 7.0 4.8 Euro 744.5 275.1 469.4 2.79 10.0 7.7 1,691.3 489.5 1,201.8 3.03 8.2 6.1 II.
31 December 2015 Weighted average Weighted Weighted period for average average which rate period to Total Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate isfixed maturity m m m % Years Years Gross borrowings in: Pound Sterling 909.3 376.9 532.4 2.92 7.0 5.1 Euro 526.8 229.7 297.1 2.80 10.0 7.2 1,436.1 606.6 829.5 2.88 8.0 5.9 The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to provide an economic hedge of its interest rate risk.
Further details on interest rate risk are included in Note 27C ii a and the interest rate derivatives are disclosed in Note 26.
Financial covenants Under the financial covenants relating to the bond and note the Group has to ensure that: Consolidated net indebtedness as defined in the applicable prospectus does not exceed 60% of the total asset value Consolidated secured indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents does not exceed 50% of total asset value Interest coverage ratio to be at least 1.5 to 1.0, and Unencumbered assets are not less than 125% of the unsecured indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents Under the financial covenants relating to the RCF, the Group has to ensure that: Consolidated net indebtedness as defined in the revolving loan agreement does not exceed 60% of the total asset value A minimum fixed charge coverage ratio where consolidated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation to consolidated fixed charges is not less than 1.9 to 1.0 for the last four quarters A maximum secured recourse indebtedness for consolidated secured recourse debt does not exceed 2.5% of total asset value at any time, and Unencumbered assets are not less than 125% of the unsecured indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents The secured borrowings are subject to various financial covenants including LTV and debt service coverage ratios, all of which were met throughout the year.
Derivative financial instruments The accounting policy applicable to derivative financial instruments is set out in Note 3P iii and the fair value disclosures set out in Note 5E.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets Interest rate caps not designated as hedges 0.3 0.9 Foreign currency forward contracts designated as net investment hedges 9.7 0.3 10.6 Non-current liabilities Zero cost foreign currency options designated as net investment hedges 17.3 2.3 Interest rate cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 32.4 7.8 Foreign currency forward contracts designated as net investment hedges 4.6 54.3 10.1 54.0 0.5 129 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued The Group has entered into interest rate cap contracts with notional amounts of 218.1 million December 2015: 218.6 million on Sterling-denominated debt and 297.9 million 254.3 million December 2015: 227.5 million or 167.7 million on Eurodenominated debt.
The caps are used to hedge the exposure to the variable interest rate payments on mortgage borrowings.
The Group has also entered into foreign currency forward contracts and zero cost foreign currency options with notional amounts of 563.8 million 447.0 million to hedge its net investment in Euro operations December 2015: 310.0 million or 240.1 million.
The Group also entered into a cross currency swap to convert a portion of the proceeds from its 300.0 million debut senior unsecured bond into Euro.
This transaction swapped 150.0 million of the bond into 210.8 million Euro-equivalent debt and subsequently carries an equivalent annual coupon rate of 3.76%.
A. Valuation process All derivatives are initially measured at fair value at the date the derivative is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value Note 5E.
Foreign currency forward contracts, zero premium foreign currency options and cross-currency swaps are designated as net investment hedges of the investment in foreign operations.
Foreign currency forward contracts, cross currency swaps and foreign currency zero premium options have been highly effective with no ineffectiveness recorded.
Therefore movements in their fair value with the exception of the time value of zero premium options are recognised directly in OCI rather than the income statement and offset the impact of retranslating the related foreign currency subsidiary balance sheet at appropriate closing rates at each reporting date, as required by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
In line with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, movements in the fair value of zero premium foreign exchange options are recognised directly in profit or loss.
The fair values of the Groups outstanding derivative contracts have been estimated by calculating the present value of the future cash flows, using appropriate market discount rates.
This valuation technique falls within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, as defined by IFRS 13 as discussed in Note 5E.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management The accounting policy applicable to financial instruments is set out in Note 3P and the fair value disclosures set out in Note 5.
Accounting classifications and fair values The following table shows the book values and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy.
It does not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
31 December 2016 Fair value through the Fair value Other Carrying profit and hedging financial value Fair value loss instruments liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m m m m m Loans secured by real estate 67.6 67.6 67.6 67.6 Derivative financial assets 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Total financial assets disclosed at fair value 67.9 67.9 67.9 0.3 67.6 Borrowings 1,677.2 1,712.8 1,712.8 988.1 724.7 Derivative financial liabilities 54.3 54.3 54.3 54.3 Total financial liabilities disclosed at fair value 1,731.5 1,767.1 54.3 1,712.8 1,042.4 724.7 II.
31 December 2015 Fair value through the Fair value Other Carrying profit and hedging financial value Fair value loss instruments liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m m m m m Loans secured by real estate 179.2 179.2 179.2 179.2 Derivative financial assets 10.6 10.6 0.9 9.7 10.6 Total financial assets disclosed at fair value 189.8 189.8 180.1 9.7 10.6 179.2 Borrowings 1,414.3 1,421.4 1,421.4 589.4 832.0 Derivative financial liabilities 10.1 10.1 10.1 10.1 Total financial liabilities disclosed at fair value 1,424.4 1,431.5 10.1 1,421.4 599.5 832.0 130 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information B.
Measurement of fair values The fair value of rent and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other payables approximate their carrying value and they are carried at amortised cost.
C. Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: Market risk including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk Credit risk, and Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
There have been no changes in any risk management policies since 31 December 2015. i.
Risk management framework The Investment Manager oversees the management of these risks.
All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, experience and supervision.
The Board through the Audit Committee reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Audit Committee oversees how the Investment Manager monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair values of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices, due to interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and other price risks.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising returns.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows or fair value of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk whereas borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities within the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates, as set out in Note 25H.
The risk is managed by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, and interest rate caps which it agrees to receive at specified intervals, the difference between variable rate interest amounts and the capped interest rate by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount, as well as cross-currency swaps.
Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite: ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied by either positioning the balance sheet or protecting interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
At 31 December 2016, after taking into account the effect of interest rate caps and the cross-currency swap, 71% of the Groups floating rate borrowings were hedged December 2015: 64%.
In managing interest rate risk, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short term fluctuations on the Groups earnings, without jeopardising its flexibility.
Over the longer term, changes in interest rates may have an impact on consolidated earnings.
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both non-derivative and derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date and represents managements assessment of possible changes in interest rates.
For the floating rate liabilities, the analysis has been prepared assuming that the amount of the liability at each of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 were outstanding for an entire year.
The sensitivity has been calculated by applying the interest rate change to the variable rate borrowings, net of interest-rate caps and cash and cash equivalents.
Impact on profit Impact on net asset value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Increase of 100 bps 1.5 3.7 1.5 3.7 Decrease of 100 bps 0.3 1.9 0.3 1.9 Increase of 200 bps 3.8 7.1 3.8 7.1 Decrease of 200 bps 0.3 1.9 0.3 1.9 The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
These balances attract low interest rates and therefore a relative increase or decrease in their respective interest rates would not have a material impact on profit or loss.
131 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued b.
Foreign currency risk The Group has operations in Europe which transact business denominated mostly in Euro.
There is currency exposure caused by translating the local trading performance and local net assets into Pound Sterling for each financial period and at each reporting date.
The Group does not have foreign currency trading with cross border flows.
The Group hedges a majority of its foreign currency assets naturally by funding them with borrowings in Euro and aims to ensure that it has no material unhedged net assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency.
Profit translation is not hedged.
There are no other significant foreign currency risks impacting the Group.
The Groups net investment translation exposure including the impact of derivative financial instruments is summarised below: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Gross foreign currency assets 1,407.3 1,129.7 Gross foreign currency liabilities 1,165.0 944.0 Net exposure 242.3 185.7 Gross currency liabilities include the nominal amount of 447.0 million December 2015: 383.9 million of foreign exchange derivatives designated as net investment hedges.
The Group has entered into a number of foreign exchange contracts including forward contracts, options and a cross-currency swap to sell 563.8 million December 2015: 520.8 million and buy PoundSterling.
The sensitivity below has been determined based on the exposure to foreign exchange rates for derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date and represents managements assessment of possible changes to the fair value of the Groups crosscurrency swaps as a result of possible changes in sterling to euro foreign exchange rates.
Impact on profit Impact on net asset value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m 250 bps strengthening in exchange spot rate 0.8 0.5 4.4 4.8 250 bps weakening in exchange spot rate 0.8 0.5 4.4 4.8 500 bps strengthening in exchange spot rate 1.5 0.9 8.6 9.7 500 bps weakening in exchange spot rate 1.5 0.9 8.6 9.7 iii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risks from both its leasing activities and financing activities, including deposits with banks, and derivatives.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financialasset.
Rent and other receivables Credit risk is managed by requiring tenants to pay rentals in advance.
A credit assessment is carried out prior to the inception of a lease with a new counterparty and is used to determine the size of the deposit required from that tenant at inception.
Rent collection is outsourced to managing agents who report regularly on payment performance.
The Group has a diverse portfolio and there is no concentration of credit risk within the lease portfolio to any business sector or individual company.
At 31 December 2016, the Group has circa 485 unique tenants excluding residential tenancies in 211 commercial assets December 2015: 550 tenants in 277 properties.
As at 31 December 2016, the 10 largest single tenants generate approximately 34.5% of annualised rent December 2015: 28.8%.
As such the credit risk attributable to individual tenants is low.
Rent receivables which include unpaid rent were approximately 0.4% of total assets at 31 December 2016 December 2015: 0.3%.
Outstanding tenants receivables are regularly monitored.
The directors are of the view that the credit risk associated with unpaid rent is low owing to the long-term nature and diversity of the Groups tenancy arrangements.
132 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Arrears are monitored regularly, and discussed at least monthly by the Investment Manager Groups internal property management team and a strategy for dealing with significant potential defaults is presented on a timely basis by the property managers.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of rent, trade and other receivables.
An analysis of the movements in the allowance for impaired balances is set out in Note 21B ii.
The Groups debtor recovery is consistently high and as such is deemed a low risk area.
The maximum exposure to credit risk of tenant and other receivables by geographic region at each balance date was as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m United Kingdom 5.2 7.7 Ireland 1.6 1.3 Rest of Europe 7.7 0.2 14.5 9.2 b.
Cash and cash equivalents Credit risk from balances with banks is managed by the Investment Manager Group in accordance with the Investment Policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made to avoid undue concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
Cash deposits are held with investment grade rated banks which are rated Ba1 to A1, based on Moodysratings.
The Groups exposure and credit ratings of its counterparties are monitored by the Investment Manager Group throughout theperiod.
c. Loans secured by real estate Interest income is accreted to the profit or loss using the effective interest rate method.
The security underlying these loans includes certain hotel assets in the United Kingdom, together with certain commercial buildings, retail premises and residential assets in the Republic of Ireland.
Loans secured by real estate are carried at fair value.
See further details in Note 18A.
d. Derivatives The derivatives are entered into with bank and financial institution counterparties, which are rated Ba1 to A1, based on Moodysratings.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Prudent liquidity management implies maintaining sufficient cash, the availability of funding through adequate amounts of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
The Groups policy is to seek to minimise its exposure to liquidity risk by managing its exposure to interest rate risk and to refinancing risk.
The Group seeks to borrow for as long as possible at the lowest cost.
The Groups approach to monitoring its liquidity includes daily cash flow review and forecasting, and monthly monitoring of the maturity profile of debt, by the Investment Manager.
This is also reviewed each quarter by the Board.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank deposits, borrowings and bond financing.
A key factor in ensuring existing facilities remain available to the Group is the borrowing entitys ability to meet the relevant facilitysfinancial covenants.
The Group has a process to monitor regularly both current and projected compliance with its financialcovenants.
Revolving credit facility The Group maintains a 225.0 million multi-currency RCF.
For any portion of the facility utilised in: Euro, the interest rate is calculated by reference to Euribor plus a margin, and or Pound Sterling, the interest rate is calculated by reference to Libor plus a margin The applicable margin ranges between 160 bps and 260 bps, depending on the value of certain financial covenants measured at the time of draw down.
At 31 December 2016 and as at the date of the consolidated financial statements the RCF was undrawn.
133 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued b. EMTN Programme On 5 November 2015 the Group announced the establishment of a 2,000.0 million EMTN Programme.
Under the EMTN Programme, the Group may issue, from time to time, up to 2,000.0 million of various types of debt securities in certain markets and currencies.
The table below summarises the contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities, derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables existing at the balance sheet date.
Contracted cash flows are based on the loan balances and applicable interest rates payable on these at year end.
On 19 September 2016 the Company issued a further 200.0 million 3.95% senior unsecured bond as a tap to the original 300.0 million 3.95% senior unsecured bond issued on 30 June 2015.
On 19 April 2016 the Company issued a further 150.0 million 3.25% senior unsecured note as a tap to the original 400.0 million 3.25% senior unsecured note issued on 12 November 2015.
v. Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern and as such it aims to maintain a prudent mix between borrowings and equity financing.
The Groups capital structure comprises equity attributable to shareholders of the Company Note 28, borrowings Note 25 and cash and cash equivalents Note 22.
Equity comprises issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Borrowings comprise term loan facilities, a revolving credit facility and unsecured bonds and notes.
Save for the currently undrawn RCF and the bonds and notes, the remaining Group borrowings are secured on specific portfolios and are non-recourse to the Group as a whole The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Board monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
Dividends are approved by the Board on an interim basis.
134 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information a.
Net debt 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Borrowings Note 25 1,677.2 1,414.3 Add: Unamortised borrowing costs Note 25 14.1 21.8 1,691.3 1,436.1 Cash and cash equivalents Note 22 456.5 326.5 Net debt excluding unamortised borrowing costs 1,234.8 1,109.6 b.
Portfolio value 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Investment and development property Note 17 2,741.6 2,554.3 Loans secured by real estate Note 18 67.6 179.2 Property, plant and equipment Note 19 73.0 59.2 2,882.2 2,792.7 c. Loan to value 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Portfolio value 2,882.2 2,792.7 Net debt excluding unamortised borrowing costs 1,234.8 1,109.6 Loan to value % 42.8 39.7 28.
Stated capital The accounting policy applicable to stated capital is set out in Note 3R.
A. Authorised share capital Ordinary shares Number Authorised Ordinary shares Unlimited Ordinary shares issued and fully paid Shares in issue at 1 January 2016 135,933,938 Ordinary shares bought back and cancelled as part of the Companys share buyback programme 9,800,531 At 31 December 2016 126,133,407 m As at 1 January 2016 1,322.2 Ordinary shares bought back as part of the Companys share buyback programme 100.1 At 31 December 2016 1,222.1 The Company has unlimited authorised share capital of no par value.
The issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares rank equally.
The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
During the year the Company undertook a share buyback programme.
A total of 9,800,531 shares were bought back and cancelled at an average price per share of 10.20.
The total consideration paid for shares acquired under the buyback programme, including commissions paid was 100.1 million.
The shares purchased for cancellation are deducted from Stated Capital at the total consideration paid.
135 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued B.
Number of shares in issue Number of Weighted average shares number of shares Year ended 31 December 2015 Number of shares in issue at 1 January 2015 135,283,293 135,283,293 Ordinary shares issued on 26 February 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ending 31 December 2014 163,478 137,949 Ordinary shares issued on 7 May 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ending 31 March 2015 155,201 101,200 Ordinary shares issued on 6 August 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ending 30 June 2015 165,947 66,379 Ordinary shares issued on 5 November 2015 to partially settle the investment management fee for the period ending 30 September 2015 166,019 25,017 Number of ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2015 135,933,938 Na Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for the year ending 31December 2015 Na 135,613,838 Year ended 31 December 2016 Number of shares in issue at 1 January 2016 135,933,938 135,933,938 Ordinary shares bought back and cancelled as part of the Companys share buyback programme 9,800,531 1,569,313 Number of ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2016 126,133,407 Na Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for the year ending 31December 2016 Na 134,364,625 29.
Dividends The accounting policy applicable to dividends is set out in Note 3I.
Year Year ending ending Date of 31 December 31 December Per share dividend payment of 2016 2015 amount dividend m m Interim dividend 7 pence 20 March 2015 9.5 Interim dividend 8 pence 29 May 2015 10.8 Interim dividend 10 pence 28 August 2015 13.6 Interim dividend 10 pence 27 November 2015 13.6 Interim dividend 12 pence 31 March 2016 16.3 Interim dividend 12 pence 23 May 2016 16.3 Interim dividend 12 pence 31 August 2016 16.3 Interim dividend 12 pence 30 November 2016 15.5 64.4 47.5 On 23 February 2017, the Board approved an interim dividend of 12 pence per share, resulting in a total dividend of 15.1 million.
It will be paid on 31 March 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 March 2017.
This interim dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the consolidated financial statements as it was declared after year end.
Reserves The accounting policies applicable to reserves are set out in Notes 3C i ii, Note 3K and Note 3Q.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as the effective portion of any foreign currency differences arising from hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
B. Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve relates to the revaluation of land and buildings.
C. Share-based payment reserve The share-based payments reserve comprises the value of rights in respect of share-based payment arrangements relating to certain investment management fees Note 31A i.
The share-based payment reserve also comprises the value of rights in respect of the performance fee arrangements determined in accordance with the investment management agreement Note 31A ii.
136 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 31.
Parent and ultimate controlling party The Companys parent and ultimate controlling party is Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. KWI.
This is by virtue of the Investment Manager, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of KWI, acting as investment manager to the Company in accordance with the terms of the investment management agreement between the Investment Manager and the Company, and the Investment Manager being entitled to receive certain management and performance fees.
In addition, KWI through its subsidiaries holds 29,769,435 23.6% shares in the Company at 31 December 2016 December 2015: 24,675,597 or 18.2%.
Investment management fee Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Investment management fee settled in cash 16.3 9.6 Investment management fee settled through the issuance of new ordinary shares 5.6 16.3 15.2 Number of new ordinary shares issued to settle investment management fee 650,645 The Investment Manager, pursuant to the terms of an investment management agreement with the Company, is entitled to receive an investment management fee from the Company at an annual rate of 1.0% of the EPRA NAV of the Company, payable quarterly in arrears.
The investment management fee is payable 50% in cash and the remaining 50% through the issuance of new ordinary shares in the Company to the value of that 50% fee portion, unless: to the extent restricted by law or regulation in which case it is payable in cash, or the average closing price of the Companys ordinary shares over the 20 days prior to the invoice date for the relevant fee is lower than the last reported NAV per ordinary share in which case the investment management fee is to be settled insofar as possible by the purchase of ordinary shares in the market at a price per ordinary share no greater than the last reported NAV per ordinary share and otherwise by the issuance of new ordinary shares at a price per share equal to the last reported NAV per ordinary share, up to an aggregate amount equal to the cash equivalent of that 50% fee portion.
The investment management fees were as follows: For the quarter ended 31 December 2015, the investment management fee payable to the Investment Manager totalled 4.1 million.
Of this amount 1.9 million cash was paid on 31 December 2015.
The remaining 2.2 million was satisfied by the Company through a cash payment of circa 0.1 million, and the share-based element of 2.1 million was satisfied by the purchase of ordinary shares for cash in the market for delivery to the Investment Manager.
On 1 March 2016, 184,165 shares were acquired to settle the share-based element of the investment management fee For the quarter ended 31 March 2016, the investment management fee payable to the Investment Manager totalled 4.0 million.
Of this amount 2.0 million cash was paid on 31 March 2016.
The remaining 2.0 million share-based element was satisfied by the purchase of ordinary shares for cash in the market for delivery to the Investment Manager.
On 6 May 2016, 185,627 shares were acquired to settle the share-based element of the investment management fee For the quarter ended 30 June 2016, the investment management fee payable to the Investment Manager totalled 4.2 million.
Of this amount 2.1 million cash was paid on 29 June 2016.
The remaining 2.1 million share-based element was satisfied through the purchase of ordinary shares for cash in the market for delivery to the Investment Manager.
On 5 August 2016, 215,534 shares were acquired to settle the share-based element of the investment management fee For the quarter ended 30 September 2016, the investment management fee payable to the Investment Manager totalled 4.2 million.
Of this amount 2.1 million cash was paid on 30 September 2016.
The remaining 2.1 million share-based element was satisfied by the purchase of ordinary shares for cash in the market for delivery to the Investment Manager.
On 4 November 2016, 206,460 shares were acquired to settle the share-based element of the investment management fee, and For the quarter ended 31 December 2016, the investment management fee payable to the Investment Manager totals 3.9 million.
Of this amount 2.0 million was paid on 30 December 2016.
The remaining 1.9 million share-based element will be satisfied insofar as possible by the purchase of ordinary shares for cash in the market for delivery to the Investment Manager at a price per ordinary share no greater than the last reported NAV per ordinary share and otherwise by the issuance of new ordinary shares at a price per share equal to the last reported NAV per ordinary share The total amount of the investment management fee in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 was 16.3 million year ended 31 December 2015: 15.2 million.
The Investment Manager has also paid certain expenses on behalf of the Company and the Company has reimbursed the Investment Manager in the amount of 2.0 million year ended 31 December 2015: 0.7 million.
137 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued ii.
Performance fee Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Performance fee 29.7 The Investment Manager, pursuant to the terms of an investment management agreement with the Company, is entitled to receive a performance fee.
It is a form of remuneration used to reward the Investment Manager for generating returns to shareholders.
Since the average closing share price of the Companys ordinary shares for the twenty days immediately prior to the invoice date for the 2015 performance fee was below the last reported NAV per share the 2015 performance fee was settled by the purchase of ordinary shares in the market for the cash equivalent amount of the performance fee being 29.7 million.
On 1 March 2016, 2,684,102 shares were acquired to settle the performance fee.
Since the performance fee threshold has not been reached during the year ended 31 December 2016, no performance fee is payable for this year.
The return to shareholders in an accounting period is the increase in the EPRA NAV per ordinary share plus the total dividends and other distributions that are declared in the accounting period adjusted to exclude the effects of any issuance of ordinary shares during that accounting period Shareholder Return.
The performance fee is calculated annually on a per ordinary share basis as 20% of the lesser of performance above two hurdles, as follows: The excess of Shareholder Return over a 10% annual hurdle rate.
The annual return hurdle resets annually to 10% of the sum of the previous accounting periods EPRA NAV per ordinary share, and The excess of the year end EPRA NAV per ordinary share which is adjusted to include total dividends declared or other distributions in the accounting period and adjusted to exclude the effects of any issuance of ordinary shares during that accounting period over the relevant high water mark.
The relevant high water mark in each accounting period is the greater of The closing EPRA NAV per ordinary share achieved in the reference period which is the most recent accounting period in which a performance fee was payable adjusted for total dividends or other distributions paid per ordinary share and adjusted to exclude the effects of any issue of ordinary shares during the reference period, and The gross opening NAV being the gross cash and non-cash proceeds of the initial issue plus further cash and non-cash issues of ordinary shares excluding any issues of ordinary shares in part settlement of the investment management fee or the performance fee, calculated on a per ordinary share basis as at the end of the accounting period in respect of which the performance fee is calculated The performance fee is payable either through the issuance of new ordinary shares in the Company to the value of the performance fee or by the purchase of shares in the market at a price no greater than the last reported NAV per ordinary share for delivery to the Investment Manager for an aggregate amount equal to the cash equivalent value of the performance fee.
To the extent that payment of the performance fee in ordinary shares is restricted by law or regulation, it is payable in cash.
Where the average closing price of the Companys ordinary shares over the twenty days prior to the payment date for the performance fee is higher than the last reported NAV per ordinary share, the performance fee is settled through the issue of new ordinary shares, the number of which is determined by dividing the cash equivalent amount of the performance fee by the average closing share price for the twenty days immediately prior to the invoice date for the performance fee.
In this circumstance, it is accounted for as a charge against income but as it is settled in shares it has no impact on the net assets of the Group.
Where the average closing price of the Companys ordinary shares over the twenty days prior to the payment date for the performance fee is below the last reported NAV per ordinary share, the performance fee is settled insofar as possible by applying an amount equal to the cash equivalent amount of the performance fee to the purchase of ordinary shares for cash in the market at a price per ordinary share no greater than the last reported NAV per ordinary share for delivery to the Investment Manager and otherwise by the issuance of new ordinary shares at a price per share equal to the last reported NAV per ordinary share.
The ordinary shares delivered pursuant to the performance fee arrangements are subject to a lock-up period as follows: One-third will be subject to a lock-up period of 12 months from the date of receipt of the ordinary shares One-third will be subject to a lock-up period of 24 months from the date of receipt of the ordinary shares, and One-third will be subject to a lock-up period of 36 months from the date of receipt of the ordinary shares 138 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information B.
Transactions with key management personnel i.
Amounts paid to key management personnel a.
Directors fees The Directors of the Company received total fees for the year as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Charlotte Valeur 145,000 145,000 William McMorrow Mark McNicholas 100,000 100,000 Simon Radford 100,000 100,000 Mary Ricks 345,000 345,000 Pursuant to the terms of the investment management agreement between the Investment Manager and the Company, each of William McMorrow and Mary Ricks has waived his her fees as Directors of the Company.
Investment management fee The Investment Manager is considered to be included within the definition of key management personnel.
The total Investment Management fee for the year ended 31 December 2016 is 16.3 million year ended 31 December 2015: 15.2 million, details of which are set out in Note 31A i. c. Performance fee The Investment Manager, as noted above, is considered to be included within the definition of key management personnel.
The total performance fee which the Investment Manager is entitled to for the year ended 31 December 2016 is Nil year ended 31 December 2015: 29.7 million, details of which are set out in Note 31A ii.
d. Total amounts payable The total amount paid to key management personnel is: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Investment management fee 16.3 15.2 Directors fees 0.3 0.3 Dividends earned by directors on shareholdings in the Company 0.2 0.1 Costs reimbursed 2.0 0.7 Performance fee 29.7 18.8 46.0 ii.
Interests in share capital of the Company The directors interests in the shares of the Company are detailed below: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Number of Number of shares shares Charlotte Valeur William McMorrow 200,149 80,916 Mark McNicholas Simon Radford 12,500 Mary Ricks 280,149 120,916 492,798 201,832 139 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued Included in the shareholding noted above are 119,233 restricted share units which were awarded on 1 March 2016 to each of William McMorrow and Mary Ricks.
Such restricted share units were granted in respect of the shares awarded to the Investment Manager in satisfaction of the Performance Fee for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The restricted share units will vest, subject to continuous service, in equal tranches over a period of three years with the first vesting to occur in March 2017 and thereafter in March 2018 and March 2019.
Each restricted share unit that vests shall represent the right to receive payment of one ordinary share.
There has been no other change in the Directors interests in the shares of the Company between 31 December 2016 and the date of the consolidated financial statements.
Dividends paid on ordinary shares in the Company held by directors totalled approximately 0.2 million during the year ended 31 December 2016 year ended 31 December 2015: 0.1 million.
C. Other related parties There were no transactions with other related parties.
Share-based payments The accounting policy applicable to share-based payment arrangements is set out in Note 3Q.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements: A. Part-settlement of Investment Management fee As described in Note 31A i, the Investment Manager is entitled to receive, pursuant to the terms of an investment management agreement with the Company, a management fee from the Company at an annual rate of 1.0% of the EPRA NAV of the Company, payable quarterly in arrears.
The investment management fee is payable 50% in cash and the remaining 50% through the issuance of ordinary shares in the Company.
In accordance with the investment management agreement, the fair value price for the shares issued to settle the portion of the investment management fee which is payable 50% in shares, is the average closing share price for the twenty days immediately prior to the issue date of those shares.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Investment Management fee payable to the Investment Manager totals 16.3 million, which will be paid in cash year ended 31 December 2015: 15.2 million of which 9.6 million was paid in cash and 5.6 million was settled through the issuance of new ordinary shares.
Performance fee As described in Note 31A ii, the Company will pay an annual performance fee calculated with reference to total shareholder return.
The fee is the lesser of 20% of a the excess over an annualised annual return hurdle of 10% or b the excess of year end EPRA NAV per ordinary share over the relevant High Water Mark being the closing EPRA NAV per Ordinary Share.
140 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 33.
Group entities The accounting policy applicable to group entities is set out in Note 3A i.
Except where indicated the following are indirect subsidiaries of the Company.
All the Companys direct and indirect interests are in ordinary shares.
Except as noted, all are wholly owned property investment companies and are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Incorporated and registered Incorporated and registered in Jersey in Luxembourg Bizet Limited Gatsby Aberdeen Limited KW Lux FinanceCo S.. r. l. Jupiter Argyle Ltd Gatsby Capital 1 Limited KW Real Estate Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Friars Ltd Gatsby Capital 2 Limited KW Investment Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Holdco Ltd Gatsby Capital 3 Limited KW Investment One Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Hull Limited Gatsby Chatham Limited KW Investment Two Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Marathon Ltd Gatsby Croydon Limited KW Investment Three Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Pennine Ltd Gatsby GIR Limited KW Investment Four Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Rubislaw Ltd Gatsby GR Limited KW Investment Five Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Seafield Ltd Gatsby Grocery Limited KW Investment Six Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Showroom Ltd Gatsby Industrial Limited KW Investment Eight Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Tradeco Ltd Gatsby INV 1 Limited KW Investment Nine Lux S.. r. l. Jupiter Trident Ltd Gatsby Middlewich Limited KW Investment Ten Lux S.. r. l. KW Artemis UK Properties HoldCo Ltd Gatsby PFS Limited KW Investment Eleven Lux S.. r. l. KW BPR Ltd Gatsby PH Limited KW Investment Twelve Lux S.. r. l. KW Dukes Park Limited Gatsby Retail Limited KW High Street Retail B Ltd Gatsby Saltash Limited Incorporated and registered in KW Industrial B Ltd KW Gatsby Limited England or Scotland KW Industrial SPV 1 Ltd KW Italy Investments Holdco Limited St Andrews Bay Development Ltd KW Industrial SPV 2 Ltd KW Olimpia Holdco Limited KW Pioneer Point UK OpCo Limited KW Ipswich Limited SEO Bartley Wood Limited KW Office Limited SEO Bracknell Limited Incorporated and registered in Spain KW Office SPV 1 Ltd SEO Farnborough Limited Alemina Investments, S. L. formerly KW Dionysus Ltd SEO Finance Limited KW Spanish Holdco, SL KW Office SPV 2 Ltd formerly KW SEO Harlow Limited KW LMG Propco 1, SL Agamemnon Ltd SEO Langley Limited KW New Propco 1, SL KW Office SPV 3 Ltd SEO Maidenhead Limited KW Sol Propco, SL KW MH Limited SEO Reading Limited KW Sol Propco 2, SL KW Niobe Ltd SEO Stockley Limited KW Velazquez Propco1, SL KW Regional Office B Ltd SEO Watford Limited KW Velazquez Propco 2, SL KW Retail SPV 1 Ltd KW Pioneer Point Limited Leterana Servicios Y Gestiones, SL KW Retail SPV 2 Ltd Parque Comercial Guadalhorce, SL formerly Crumbie Ltd Incorporated and registered KW Retail Warehouse SPV 1 Ltd in Republic of Ireland Incorporated and registered in the KW Ringway Limited Cavalli Investments ICAV Isle of Man KW Trade Co Ltd KW Investment Funds ICAV Kish One Limited formerly Bengal Ltd KW Portmarnock Ops Ltd Directly owned KW UK Assets Holdco Ltd 90% owned by the Group KWVF Tiger Ltd KW Towers Limited Nessun Limited Scarlatti Limited Triviata Limited 34.
Investment management fee On 23 February 2017 the Company approved the payment of the investment management fee of 3.9 million for the quarter ended 31 December 2016, payable to the Investment Manager.
See further details in Note 31A i.
Capital expenditure commitments At 31 December 2016 the estimated amount of authorised and contracted commitments which have not been provided for in respect of future purchases, construction and redevelopment of investment property totals 8.8 million.
The estimated amount of authorised but uncontracted expenditure totals 6.7 million December 2015: 66.1 million contracted and 14.9 million uncontracted.
141 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 continued 36.
Operating lease arrangements The Group has determined that all tenant leases are operating leases within the meaning of IAS 17.
The Group earns rental income by leasing its investment properties to tenants under non-cancellable operating leases.
Typically, single let properties are leased on terms where the tenant is responsible for repair, insurance and running costs while multi-let properties are leased on terms which include recovery of a share of service charge expenditure and insurance.
The Group also let tenancies on terms which include a turnover based element of 0.4 million year ended 31 December 2015: 0.1 million.
At the reporting date, the Group had contracted with tenants to receive the following future minimum lease payments: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Not later than one year 137.6 135.2 Later than one year but not more than five years 423.5 413.4 Later than five years but not more than ten years 242.4 257.1 803.5 805.7 In the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland standard commercial leases vary considerably between markets and locations, but are typically for a term of five to 15 years at market rent with provisions to review every five years.
The weighted average unexpired lease term on commercial property at 31 December 2016 based on the lease expiry date was 8.9 years December 2015: 9.2 years.
Residential property is typically leased for periods of one year or less.
Minimum lease rentals from residential property are not included in the table above.
The largest single tenant at year end accounted for 11.8 million or 7.7% of the annualised rental income at 31 December 2016 December 2015: 10.2 million or 6.7% of annualised rental income.
Unoccupied property expressed as a percentage of estimated total rental value was 5.4% at 31 December 2016 December 2015:4.0%.
Assets held-for-sale The accounting policy applicable to assets held-for-sale is set out in Note 3N.
Details of the accounting policies applicable to investment and development property are set out in Note 3J, whilst fair value disclosures are set out in Note 5A, as well as Note 17.
The Group has identified certain of its investment properties as held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5.
The carrying value of such assets was 59.4 million December 2015: 51.0 million at the balance sheet date.
Employee benefit expense The accounting policy applicable to employee benefit expense is set out in Note 3E.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Aggregate remuneration of employees comprises: Wages and salaries 7.6 6.1 Social security costs 0.7 0.5 Other pension costs 0.1 0.1 Other employment cost 0.2 0.1 8.6 6.8 Average number of employees 386 377 Details of Directors emoluments are set out in Note 31B.
All employees are employed by subsidiaries of the Group predominantly within the hotel operations segment.
142 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 39.
Auditors remuneration The remuneration of KPMG, the Groups auditor is disclosed below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m 1 Audit services Audit of the consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3 Audit of subsidiary undertakings 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.4 Audit related services 1 Review of interim financial statements 0.1 0.1 2,3 Capital markets transactions 0.1 0.1 0.2 Fees for other services 4 Tax advisory services 0.1 0.4 4 Transaction advisory services 0.2 1 Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.7 1.3 Footnotes: 1.
Costs associated with these items are typically expensed through the income statement in the period in which the expense is incurred.
Costs associated with equity fundraisings are typically applied against the Stated Capital balance in the consolidated balance sheet.
For further information, refer to Note 28.
Costs associated with debt transactions are typically capitalised into borrowing costs and amortised over the period of the associated debt.
For further information, refer to Note 25.
Costs associated with these items may, depending on the nature of the transaction for which services are being provided, either be expensed during the period that a cost is incurred, or capitalised into the underlying cost base of the associated asset.
Details of the Groups policy on the use of its auditors for other services, the reason the audit firm was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group continues to monitor the provision of non-audit services provided by the auditor and fees charged for other services.
The costs of audit and audit related services are substantially incurred in Euro by the auditors, KPMG.
For the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, the audit fee for the audit of the consolidated financial statements has been maintained at approximately 0.4 million.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Approval of the annual financial statements The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Companys Board of Directors on 23 February 2017.
143 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Additional information 145 Principal properties 146 Portfolio statistics and EPRA disclosures 149 Alternative performance measures 150 Additional disclosures 154 Directors, advisors and Company information 155 Shareholder information 155 Financial calendar 156 Definitions and glossary The Chase, Dublin, Ireland Acquired May 2016 144 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 1 Principal properties unaudited Value band Primary Approx.
area 2 Address m sector sq ft UK 111 Buckingham Palace Road, Victoria, London 100 O 224,120 Towers Business Park, Manchester 50 100 O 289,130 3 Pioneer Point, Ilford, London 50 100 PRS 151,150 Friars Bridge Court 50 100 O 99,130 Building 1, 2 & 3, Leavesden Park, Watford 50 100 O 196,300 Discovery Place, Summit Avenue, Farnborough 25 50 O 141,860 Norfolk House, Croydon 25 50 L 155,350 Fairmont Hotel & Golf, St. Andrews 25 50 H Rubislaw House, Aberdeen 25 50 O 101,700 Argyle House, Edinburgh 25 50 O 224,380 Seafield House, Aberdeen 25 50 O 188,020 Trident Retail & Leisure Park, Runcorn 25 50 R 208,750 Edinburgh Gate, Edinburgh Way, Harlow 25 50 O 141,160 Travelodge Hotel, Grays Inn Road, London 25 50 L 65,000 UK Total 2,186.050 Ireland Baggot Plaza, Dublin 100 O 129,300 40-42 Mespil Road, Dublin 50 100 O 118,000 Blocks A B C D, Russell Court, Saint Stephens Green, Dublin 50 100 O 138,750 Vantage, Central Park, Dublin 50 100 PRS 260,000 Stillorgan Shopping Centre, Co. Dublin 50 100 R 142,300 The Chase, Co. Dublin 50 100 O 175,600 South Bank House, Barrow Street, Dublin 50 100 O 62,150 Block K, Vantage, Central Park, Dublin 25 50 PRS 133,500 Gardner House, Dublin 25 50 O 75,600 Marshes Shopping Centre, Dundalk 25 50 R 284,230 Portmarnock Hotel & Golf Links, Co. Dublin 25 50 H Merchants Quay Shopping Centre, Cork 25 50 R 78,700 Ireland Total 1,598,130 Spain Moraleja Green Shopping Centre, Madrid 50 100 R 324,800 Puerta del Sol 9, Madrid 50 100 R 36,830 Spain Total 361,630 Italy Via Carcani, 61, Rome 25 50 O 173,900 Via Valtellina, 1, Milan 25 50 O 283,400 Italy Total 457,300 Europe TOTAL 4,603,110 Footnotes: 1.
Excludes loans secured by real estate 2.
O Office, R Retail, PRS Private rented sector residential, H Hotel, L Leisure 3.
Area excludes vacant south tower 145 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
