Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and :  ,  applicable law and regulations.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and oftheassets, liabilities,  .
Underthat Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as  a whole: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs The Strategic report and Directors report, including content as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and they contained by reference, includes a fair review of the development  and performance of the business and the position and performance , includingFRS101 of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Reduced Disclosure Framework.
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
  , taken  as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the .
 information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, , : strategy and business model of the Company.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The Strategic report pages 4 to 43 and the Directors report consistently: pages 79 to 80 have been approved and are signed by order of Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Board by: ,  prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU: , statewhetherthe applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Kerry Porritt :and Group Company Secretary  27 February 2017 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and Company RegisteredOffice: will continue in business.
5thfloor, 1SheldonSquare The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting London W2 6TT  Registered in England No.
2442580 transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the  .
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and  in other jurisdictions.
Keller Group plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors report to the members of Keller Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements isunmodified .
Inouropinion:  :  by the European Union: , includingFRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and :and, asregardsthegroup financialstatements, .
Overview Materiality:groupfinancial 4.2m 2015:4.5m statements as a whole 4.9% 2015:4.7%  Coverage 89% 2015:94%  Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 Recurring risks Accounting for construction contracts Carrying value of goodwill Event driven New: Valuation of non-current assets held for sale 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement ,  audit, , wereasfollows: The risk Our response Accounting for construction Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: contracts: Contract accounting is Control design and reperformance: Testing the design and 1,574.3 million: considered to be an ongoing  2015:1,397.4million  related expenditure: requires a high degree of Refer to page 57 Audit estimation and judgement of Our sector experience: Assessing the accounting Committee Report and page 95 matters such as: the calculation judgements applied to a selection of contracts with the accounting policy.
of stage of completion based on , including the proportion of contract costs those considered to be high risk due to such factors as known incurred for the work performed issues on the contract or the nature of work being undertaken: to the balance sheet date, relative to the estimated total Historical comparisons: For a selection of those contracts in forecast costs of the contract at progress at the balance sheet date, we challenged the groups completion: and the outcome of assumptions on costs to complete the contract through agreeing claims and variations raised cost estimates to internal forecasts and to sub-contracts.
We against customers and claims assessed the reliability of the groups forecast costs to complete raised against the group by by considering historical accuracy on completed contracts: customers or third parties.
Error in any of these estimates and Test of details: For contracts completed by the year end, we judgements could result in a assessed subsequent settlement of revenue recognised.
In material variance in the amount respect of claims and variations raised against customers, we  checked that these were recognised only once agreed with the date and therefore also in the customer.
In respect of those claims raised against the group current period.
by customers or third parties, on a selection of contracts we: challenged the groups assumptions over the progress on the claims and corroborated explanations provided: considered prior experience on settlement of claims: inspected correspondence with the counterparty and with the groups legal advisers or insurers where applicable: and Disclosures: We considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of contract accounting and the accounting estimates.
82 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The risk Our response Carrying value of goodwill: Forecast-based valuation: Our procedures included: 166.5 million: 2015: There is a risk of impairment of Historical comparisons: Assessing the reasonableness of 134.0million  the groups assumptions by reference to past performance: balances due to prolonged Refer to page 57 Audit downturn or structural change Benchmarking assumptions: Assessing the reasonableness Committee Report, page 95 in the relevant construction of the groups assumptions by reference to externally derived accounting policy and pages 103 market.
In particular there is data, forecasts for economic factors and current order book: and 104 financial disclosures.
increased risk on the balance of 34.1 million related to Keller Our sector experience: Our valuation specialists assisted Canada where the business is in evaluating the reasonableness of assumptions and currently experiencing a methodologies underlying the discount rates adopted by downturn and the carrying the group: amount of goodwill was impaired to its recoverable Sensitivity analysis: We considered the sensitivity of the amount at 31 December 2015. level of headroom available in the calculations to reasonably possible changes in assumptions to identify inputs on which The group estimates to focus our testing: and recoverable amount based on value in use which includes Disclosures: We assessed whether the groups disclosures  about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment judgement in the selection of  key inputs for the future cash risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
flows, specificallyforecast revenue and operating margin along with discount rates.
Valuation of non-current Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: assets held for sale: During the year the group Assessing the valuers credentials: We have read the 54.0 million: 2015: nil acquired a property which is   valuation methodology was in accordance with RICS standards Refer to page 57 Audit held for sale.
The valuation of  Committee Report, page 95 the property is inherently statements.
 accounting policy and page 106 subjective due to, among other expertise.
We considered their terms of engagement and fee financial disclosures.
factors, the individual nature of arrangements to determine whether there were any the property and its location.
indications that their objectivity may be impaired.
We also agreed 100% of the rental data provided to the valuers by In determining a propertys the group to the underlying lease: valuation the valuers take into  Benchmarking: The audit team, including our valuation information such as the current specialists, held a telephone conference with the valuer at tenancy agreement and rental which the valuation and the key assumptions therein were income.
We compared the investment yields used by the  valuers with an estimated range of expected yields, by prevailing market yields and determined via reference to published benchmarks: and comparable market transactions, .
Disclosures: We assessed whether the groups disclosures   the risks inherent in the valuation.
and judgements involved could result in a material misstatement and therefore the valuation of non-current assets held for  audit risk.
Keller Group plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors report continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of Normalised profit before tax Materiality 85.1m 2015: 95.7m 4.2m 2015: 4.5m the scope of our audit  4.2m set at 4.2m 2015: 4.5m determined with reference to a Whole financial statements materiality , normalisedtoexclude 2015: 4.5m this years non-underlying items as disclosed on the face of the income statement, of 11.2m 2015: 39.4m, of which it represents 3.6m Range of materiality 4.9% 2015: 4.7%.
at components 0.6m to 3.6m We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 2015: 0.4m to 3.25m  2015:0.2m, in  0.2m reporting on qualitative grounds.
Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by component 2015: 0.2m auditors at the key reporting components, including North America, Normalised PBT Group materiality EMEAandAPAC.
  our group reporting work in order to provide further coverage of the groups results.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
Theremaining12%oftotalgrouprevenue, 10%ofgroupprofitand loss before tax and 17% of total group assets is represented by reporting components, none of which individually represented more than2%,  tax or total group assets.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there .
The group audit team instructed component auditors as to the ,  above and the information to be reported back.
The group audit team approved the divisional component materialities, which ranged from 2.8m to 3.6m, having regard to the mix of size and .
Aside from the audit of the parent company that was performed by the group audit team, the work on all of the components was performed by the component auditors.
The group audit team visited the three 2015: two largest divisional component locations in each of North America, EMEA and APAC.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these componentauditors.
, thefindings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
84 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Group revenue Group profit and loss before tax 88 90 88 95 88% 90% 2015: 88% 2015: 95% Group total assets Group profit and loss before non-underlying items and taxation 83 89 80 94 83% 89% 2015: 80% 2015: 94% Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 Full scope for group audit purposes 2015 Residual components 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures Companies Act 2006 is unmodified of principal risks In our opinion: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act The directors viability statement on pages 41 and 42, concerning 2006: and the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the The information given in the Strategic report and the Directors directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing  in operation over the three years to 31 December 2019: or statements.
 the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of  report and the Directors Report: :and In our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Keller Group plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors report continued 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters Scope and responsibilities on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based  , wehaveidentified trueandfairview.
 other information in the annual report that contains a material statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website , at www.
This report is made solely a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published In particular, we are required to report to you if: on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be  read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
 statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model William Meredith Senior Statutory Auditor and strategy: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor The Corporate Governance report does not appropriately Chartered Accountants address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
15 Canada Square London Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, E14 5GL in our opinion: 27 February 2017 Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or  Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or  are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Directors statements, set out on pages 41 and 42, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 48 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of .
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
86 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 106 Trade and other receivables Principal statements 106 Construction contracts 88 Consolidated income 106 Cash and cash equivalents statement 106 Non-current assets held 88 Consolidated statement for sale of comprehensive income 107 Trade and other payables 89 Consolidated balance sheet 107 Provisions 90 Consolidated statement of 107 Other non-current liabilities changes in equity 107 Financial instruments 91 Consolidated cash flow 111 Share capital and reserves statement 111 Related party transactions 111 Commitments Notes to the financial 112 Contingent liabilities statements 112 Share-based payments 92 General information 113 Retirement benefit liabilities 92 Principal accounting 115 Post balance sheet events policies 96 Segmental analysis 116 Financial statements 97 Acquisitions of the parent company 99 Operating costs 99 Employees 100 Non-underlying items 125 Adjusted performance 100 Finance income measures 100 Finance costs 101 Taxation 102 Dividends payable to equity 127 Financial record holders of the parent 103 Earnings per share 103 Intangible assets 105 Property, plant and equipment 105 Other non-current assets 105 Inventories Keller Group plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
