Glossary Adjusted measures are before exceptional items, financing fair value Lease adjusted ROCE Post-tax retail profit less central costs, remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition intangibles, related tax excluding exceptional items and property lease costs, divided by items and tax on prior year items including the impact of rate changes lease adjusted capital employed excluding historic goodwill, net cash on deferred tax.
Full year 2014 15 comparatives have been restated to and exceptional restructuring provision.
Capital employed is adjusted exclude B&Q Chinas results.
A reconciliation to statutory amounts is to include capitalised property leases.
Kingfisher believes 8x property set out in the Financial Review on pages 25 to 30. operating lease rent is a reasonable industry standard for estimating the economic value of its leased assets.
Capital employed, except for Adjusted sales excludes B&Q China sales.
capitalised leases, is calculated as a two point average.
The calculation Banque fide France data includes relocated and extended stores.
excludes disposed businesses e. g. China.
do?node 5384326 LFL stands for like-for-like sales growth representing the constant Cut existing product tail plan to reduce the number of delisted currency, year on year sales growth for stores that have been open and ex-promotional ranges which do not form part of existing for more than a year.
Net cash comprises borrowings and financing derivatives EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents and is calculated as retail profit less central costs and before depreciation short term deposits.
It excludes balances classified as held for sale.
New Country Development consists of Screwfix Europe, Brico Dpt EBITDAR earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation Portugal and Brico Dpt Romania.
and property operating lease rentals is calculated as retail profit less Omnichannel allowing customers to shop with us in any way central costs, before depreciation and amortisation and property they prefer.
Online sales are sales derived from online transactions, including France consists of Castorama France and Brico Dpt France.
This includes sales transacted on any device, Free cash flow represents cash generated from operations less the however not sales through a call centre.
amount spent on tax, interest and capital expenditure during the year Other International consists of Germany, Poland, Portugal, Romania, excluding business acquisitions and disposals and asset disposals.
Russia, Spain and Turkey Kota JV.
A reconciliation from operating profit before exceptional items is set out in the Financial Review on pages 25 to 30.
Planogram a diagram that shows how and where specific retail products should be placed on retail shelves or displays.
French house building market new housing starts and planning consent data for the 12 months to January 2016 according Retail profit is operating profit stated before central costs, exceptional to the Ministry of Housing.
developpementitems, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and the Groups share of durable.
html interest and tax of JVs and associates.
Full year 2014 15 comparatives have been restated to exclude B&Q Chinas operating loss.
FFVR financing fair value remeasurements represents changes in the fair value of financing derivatives, excluding interest accruals, Screwfix Europe Screwfix outside of UK in continental Europe.
offset by fair value adjustments to the carrying value of borrowings Statutory sales Group sales exclude Joint Venture Kota JV sales.
and other hedged items under fair value hedge relationships.
SKU Stock Keeping Unit the number of individual variants of GNFR Goods Not For Resale covers the procurement of all goods products sold or remaining in stock.
It is a distinct type of item for sale, and services a retailer needs including e. g. media buying, mechanical such as a product and all attributes associated with the item type that handling equipment, printing & paper.
These attributes could include, but are not KEP Kingfisher Economic Profit represents earnings after a charge for limited to, manufacturer, description, material, size, colour, packaging, the annual cost of capital employed in the business is derived from the and warranty terms.
concept of Economic Value Added.
UK & Ireland consists of B&Q in the UK & Ireland and Screwfix UK.
146 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 146 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Online communications Increasing numbers of our shareholders are choosing to receive their annual report online, which helps us reduce the impact on the environment through lower paper usage.
The online version, available at www.
com, enables you to download a bespoke report to your computer desktop.
com 147 Kingfisher is included in two socially responsible indices, the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
We also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP Climate and Forests questionnaires in 2015.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certied paper.
Park is an EMAS certied company and its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Galerie Satin and UPM Fine Oset, papers containing virgin bre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certied forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Photography Laetitia Duarte: pages IFC, 6, 8, 9 Sylvie Humbert: pages 16-18, 20, 25, 36 to 38 Steve Williams: B&Q image page 21 148 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Kingfi sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 King sher plc, 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX Telephone: 44 0 20 7372 8008 www.
