Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements The IFRIC 21 and B&Q China restatements have only impacted the 1 General information France and Other International segments respectively.
Refer to the Kingfisher plc the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and data tables for the full year 2014 15 results at www.
com associates together the Group supply home improvement products for the impact of the restatements on quarterly segmental sales and services through a network of retail stores and other channels, and retail profit comparatives.
located mainly in the United Kingdom and continental Europe.
The directors of Kingfisher plc, having made appropriate enquiries, The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities consider that adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 24. operational existence and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom and is listed going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of its registered office for the year ended 31 January 2016.
Refer to the Strategic Report is 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX.
A full list of related on page 35. undertakings of the Company is given in note 19 of the Companys The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in separate financial statements.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as These consolidated financial statements have been approved adopted by the European Union IFRS and those parts of the for issue by the Board of Directors on 23 March 2016.
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore the consolidated financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation.
2 Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of The following new interpretation, which is mandatory for the first time these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These for the financial year ended 31 January 2016, is relevant for the Group: policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless IFRIC 21, Levies, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay a otherwise stated.
A prior year restatement, following the adoption of levy that is not income tax.
The interpretation changes the timing of IFRIC 21, Levies and the disposal of the Groups controlling interest when such liabilities are recognised, particularly in connection with in B&Q China, is described in section a of this note.
levies that are triggered by circumstances on a specific date.
This applies from the start of the current financial year, with restatement a.
Basis of preparation of 2014 15 comparatives.
It has not impacted the annual results, The consolidated financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, but has had a significant impact on the phasing of operating profit joint ventures and associates are made up to 31 January previously to and related deferred tax in France, with fewer costs recognised the nearest Saturday to 31 January, except as disclosed in note 16 and in the first half and third quarter but more costs recognised in in note 5 of the Companys separate financial statements.
The current the final quarter of the year.
It has also resulted in a restatement financial year is the calendar year ended 31 January 2016 the year of balance sheet payables and deferred tax.
The comparative financial year is the 52 weeks ended Other standards, amendments and interpretations which are 31 January 2015 the prior year or 2014 15.
The consolidated mandatory for the first time for the financial year ended 31 January income statement and related notes represent results for 2016 are either not currently relevant or not material for the Group.
continuing operations, there being no discontinued operations in the years presented.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new standards and interpretations, which have not been applied The following statutory GAAP measures have been restated following in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective the adoption of IFRIC 21, Levies see further details below in the and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : current year: IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective from the Groups 2014 15 2018 19 financial year : Before IFRIC 21 After millions restatement impact restatement IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers effective from Trade and other payables 2,323 14 2,337 the Groups 2018 19 financial year : and Deferred tax liabilities 329 5 324 IFRS 16, Leases effective from the Groups 2019 20 financial year.
Retained earnings at beginning The directors do not expect that the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 of year 3,495 9 3,486 will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in Retained earnings at future periods, except that IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement end of year 3,661 9 3,652 and disclosures of financial instruments.
IFRS 16 specifies how to recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.
The standard The following adjusted non-GAAP measures have been restated in provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to the comparatives to exclude B&Q Chinas operating results, in order to recognise assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases improve comparability following the disposal of the Groups controlling unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset interest in the current year see note 33 : has a low value.
The adoption of IFRS 16 will have a very significant impact on the Groups balance sheet and reported results, however 2014 15 will not reflect any changes in the underlying economics of the Before B&Q China After millions restatement exclusion restatement business.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards Adjusted sales 10,966 361 10,605 until a detailed review has been completed.
Retail profit 733 9 742 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under Adjusted pre-tax profit 675 9 684 the historical cost convention, as modified by the use of valuations Adjusted earnings 493 9 502 for certain financial instruments, share-based payments and Adjusted basic earnings per post-employment benefits.
A summary of the Groups principal share 20.9p 0.4p 21.3p accounting policies is set out below.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 20.8p 0.4p 21.2p www.
com 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued i Subsidiaries 2 Principal accounting policies continued Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group requires the use of certain accounting estimates and assumptions.
is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving critical power over the entity.
accounting estimates and judgements, which are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 3.
Subsidiaries acquired are recorded under the acquisition method of accounting and their results included from the date of acquisition.
Use of non-GAAP measures The results of subsidiaries which have been disposed are included up to the effective date of disposal.
In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain measures that are not required under IFRS, the Generally Accepted The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is Accounting Principles GAAP under which the Group reports.
the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the Kingfisher believes that adjusted sales, retail profit, adjusted pre-tax equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred profit, effective tax rate, adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a share provide additional useful information on underlying trends to contingent consideration arrangement.
These and other non-GAAP measures such as net expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and debt cash are used by Kingfisher for internal performance analysis contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an acquisition-byretail profit, exceptional items, adjusted, effective tax rate and acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest net debt cash are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the to, GAAP measures.
amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive Retail profit is defined as continuing operating profit before central income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results costs principally the costs of the Groups head office, exceptional in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and the Groups share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates.
2014 15 comparatives The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any have been restated to exclude B&Q Chinas operating results.
non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items, which value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
are presented as exceptional within their relevant income statement If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary category, helps provide an indication of the Groups underlying acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is business performance.
The principal items which are included recognised directly in the income statement.
as exceptional items are: Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on non-trading items included in operating profit such as profits and transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses on the disposal, closure or impairment of subsidiaries, joint losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of ventures, associates and investments which do not form part of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of acquired the Groups trading activities: subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure profits and losses on the disposal of properties and impairment consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
losses on non-operational assets: and ii Joint ventures and associates the costs of significant restructuring and incremental acquisition integration costs.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being reported for arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant continuing operations excluding exceptional items, financing fair value activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition intangibles, related tax The equity method is used to account for the Groups investments in items and prior year tax items including the impact of changes in tax joint ventures.
2014 15 comparatives have been restated to exclude B&Q Chinas operating results.
Financing fair value Associates are entities over which the Group has the ability to remeasurements represent changes in the fair value of financing exercise significant influence but not control, generally accompanied derivatives, excluding interest accruals, offset by fair value adjustments by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
to the carrying amount of borrowings and other hedged items under The equity method is used to account for the Groups investments fair value hedge relationships.
Financing derivatives are those that in associates.
relate to underlying items of a financing nature.
Under the equity method investments are initially recognised at cost.
The effective tax rate is calculated as continuing income tax expense The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised excluding tax on exceptional items and adjustments in respect of prior in the income statement within operating profit, and its share of years and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax, divided post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
by continuing profit before taxation excluding exceptional items.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of Net debt cash comprises borrowings and financing derivatives losses equals or exceeds its interest, including any other long-term excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents and receivables, the Group does not recognise any further losses, unless short-term deposits.
It excludes balances classified as assets and it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint liabilities held for sale.
Basis of consolidation Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial interest.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
92 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 92 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Accounting policies of joint ventures and associates have been d. Revenue recognition changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies Sales represent the supply of home improvement products and adopted by the Group.
Sales exclude transactions made between companies within the Group, Value Added Tax, other sales-related taxes The equity method of accounting is discontinued from the date an and are net of returns, trade and staff discounts.
investment ceases to be a joint venture or associate, that is the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control or significant influence Sales of in-store products are generally recognised at the point of over the investee or on the date it is classified as held for sale.
Where award credits such as vouchers or loyalty points are provided as part of the sales transaction, the amount allocated to c. Foreign currencies the credits is deferred and recognised when the credits are redeemed and the Group fulfils its obligations to supply the awards.
i Presentation and functional currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which For delivered products and services, sales are recognised either is the Groups presentation currency.
Items included in the financial when the product has been delivered or, for installation income, when statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the the service has been performed.
Sales from delivered products and currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity services represent only a small component of the Groups sales as operates i. e. its functional currency.
the majority relates to in-store purchases of products.
Other income is generally composed primarily of external rental ii Transactions and balances income and profits and losses on disposal of assets.
Rental income Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating transaction or, for practical reasons, at average monthly rates where and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
of the leased asset and recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet e. Rebates date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement.
Exceptions to this are where the monetary items form part Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise volume related of the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated and rebates on the purchase of inventories.
Contractual volume related effective net investment or cash flow hedges.
Such exchange rebates are accrued as units are purchased based on the percentage differences are initially deferred in equity.
rebate applicable to forecast total purchases over the rebate period, where it is probable the rebates will be received and the amounts iii Group companies can be estimated reliably.
Discretionary rebates are not anticipated and only recognised once earned.
Rebates relating to inventories The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are expressed in purchased but still held at the balance sheet date are deducted from Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Profits the carrying value so that the cost of inventories is recorded net of and losses of overseas subsidiaries are expressed in Sterling at applicable rebates.
Such rebates are credited to the Cost of sales average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising line in the income statement when the goods are sold.
on the retranslation of foreign operations, including joint ventures and associates, are recognised in a separate component of equity.
Other rebates received, such as those related to advertising and marketing, are recognised in the income statement when the On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the retranslation relevant conditions have been fulfilled.
of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are f. Dividends taken to equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences recorded since 1 February 2004 are recognised in Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the Companys the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising prior to 1 February 2004 is denominated in Sterling.
com 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued ii Depreciation 2 Principal accounting policies continued Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight line reduction from cost g. Intangible assets to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the asset i Goodwill as follows: Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from assets Freehold land not depreciated acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified Freehold and long leasehold buildings over remaining useful life and separately recognised.
Such benefits include future synergies Short leasehold land and buildings over remaining period expected from the combination and intangible assets not meeting of the lease the criteria for separate recognition.
Fixtures and fittings between 4 and 20 years Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Computers and electronic equipment between 3 and 5 years Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment at Motor cars 4 years country level, representing the lowest level at which it is monitored for internal management purposes, by assessing the recoverable amount Commercial vehicles between 3 and 10 years of each cash generating unit or groups of cash generating units to Long leaseholds are defined as those having remaining lease terms which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount is assessed of more than 50 years.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed by reference to the net present value of expected future pre-tax at each balance sheet date.
cash flows value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell if higher.
The discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted average iii Impairment cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant cash generating unit or groups of cash generating At each reporting date an assessment is performed as to whether units.
When the recoverable amount of the goodwill is less than its there are any indicators that property, plant and equipment, including carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Groups stores, may be impaired and, should such indicators exist, the income statement which cannot subsequently be reversed.
the assets recoverable amounts are subsequently estimated.
The Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
of expected future pre-tax cash flows value-in-use of the relevant cash generating unit or fair value less costs to sell if higher.
For poorly ii Computer software performing stores, a vacant possession valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to sell.
The discount rate applied Where software is not an integral part of a related item of computer is based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital with hardware, it is classified as an intangible asset.
appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant Costs that are directly associated with the acquisition or production cash generating unit.
Any impairment in value is charged to the of identifiable software products controlled by the Group, which are income statement in the period in which it occurs.
expected to generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised costs iv Disposal include those of software licences and development, including The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset costs of employees, consultants and an appropriate portion of is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and relevant overheads.
the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income Costs associated with identifying, sourcing, evaluating or maintaining statement.
Sales of land and buildings are accounted for when computer software are recognised as an expense as incurred.
there is an unconditional exchange of contracts.
Software under development is held at cost less any provisions v Subsequent costs for impairment, with impairment reviews being performed annually.
Subsequent costs are included in the related assets carrying Amortisation commences when the software assets are available amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when for use and is over their estimated useful lives of two to ten years.
it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
h. Property, plant and equipment All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income i Cost statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions i.
Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at deemed approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been cost, being the fair value of land and buildings as at the transition date purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair to IFRS.
All property acquired after 1 February 2004 is carried at cost.
value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included, as appropriate, under borrowings due within or after one year.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to finance costs in the income statement over the lease term.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental payments are generally charged to the income statement in the period to which the payments relate, except for those leases which incorporate fixed minimum rental uplift clauses.
Leases which contain fixed minimum rental uplifts are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
94 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 94 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Where a lease is taken out for land and buildings combined, the in which the benefits will be paid and which have terms to maturity buildings element of the lease may be capitalised as a finance lease approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
if it meets the criteria for a finance lease, but the land element will in Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments most cases be classified as an operating lease.
If the contracted and changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged lease payments are not split between land and buildings in the to the statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
lease contract, the split is made based on the market values of the land and buildings at the inception of the lease.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions Incentives received or paid to enter into lease agreements are are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
released to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
ii Share-based compensation The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based j.
The fair value of the employee services Investment property is property held by the Group to earn rental received in exchange for the grant of options or deferred shares is income or for capital appreciation.
The Groups investment properties recognised as an expense and is calculated using Black-Scholes and are carried at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting Depreciation is provided on a consistent basis with that applied period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options or to property, plant and equipment.
deferred shares granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect k. Capitalisation of borrowing costs expected and actual levels of options vesting due to non-market Interest on borrowings to finance the construction of properties held vesting conditions.
as non-current assets is capitalised from the date work starts on the property to the date when substantially all the activities which are n. Taxation necessary to get the property ready for use are complete.
Where The income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently construction is completed in parts, each part is considered separately payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on when capitalising interest.
Interest is capitalised before any allowance taxable profit for the year.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and l. Inventories there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
For uncertain tax Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, positions, on the basis that tax authorities have full knowledge of the on a weighted average cost basis.
relevant information it is determined whether it is probable that, in Trade discounts and rebates received are deducted in determining the aggregate, an outflow of economic resources will occur following cost of purchase of inventories.
Cost includes appropriate attributable investigation.
The potential impact of the relevant tax authoritys overheads and direct expenditure incurred in the normal course of examination of the uncertain tax positions is measured to make business in bringing goods to their present location and condition.
the best estimate of the amount of the tax benefit that may be lost, Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains for which provisions are then recorded.
Where the final outcome or losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases.
of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
ordinary course of business less the estimated costs necessary to These adjustments in respect of prior years are recorded in the make the sale.
Write downs to net realisable value are made for slow income statement, or directly in equity, as appropriate.
moving, damaged or obsolete items and other events or conditions resulting in expected selling prices being lower than cost.
The carrying Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the value of inventories reflects known and expected losses of product in income statement because it excludes items of income or expense the ordinary course of business.
which are taxable or deductible in other years or which are never taxable or deductible.
m. Employee benefits Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on i Post-employment benefits differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the pension schemes for its employees, some of which are required by balance sheet liability method.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension scheme which defines an amount of pension benefit which an employee will receive Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable on retirement.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the under which the Group usually pays fixed contributions into a separate extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against entity.
In all cases other than some of the legally required schemes, which deductible temporary differences or unused tax losses can a separate fund is being accumulated to meet the accruing liabilities.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if the temporary The assets of each of these funds are either held under trusts or difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill in a business managed by insurance companies and are entirely separate combination.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised from the Groups assets.
if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of transaction which affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of scheme assets profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which are denominated in the currency www.
com 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Other investments including short-term deposits 2 Principal accounting policies continued Other investments may include equity investments where the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Group does not have control, joint control or significant influence in the balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer investee, short-term deposits with banks and other investments with probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow original maturities of more than three months.
Investments classified as all or part of the asset to be recovered.
available-for-sale financial assets under IAS 39, Financial instruments: Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which have Recognition and measurement, are initially measured at fair value, been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date with subsequent changes in fair value recorded directly in equity.
and are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled Any dividends received are recognised in the income statement.
On or the asset is realised.
disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited iv Trade receivables directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is also recognised directly in equity.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for bad Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against and doubtful debts.
each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current v Trade payables tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are Operating levies, such as certain revenue, property and payroll based subsequently measured at amortised cost.
taxes, are not treated as income tax and are included within operating profit.
The timing of recognition of a liability to pay an operating levy is vi Derivatives and hedge accounting determined by the event identified under the relevant legislation that Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to which it triggers the obligation to pay the levy.
is not effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Changes in the fair value of o.
Provisions derivatives transacted as hedges of operating items and financing Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal items are recognised in operating profit and net finance or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely costs respectively.
than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative are not recognised for future operating losses.
contract is entered into and are subsequently carried at fair value.
The accounting treatment of derivatives and other financial instruments If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are classified as hedges depends on their designation, which occurs at the determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax start of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain financial rate which reflects current market assessments of the time value of instruments as: money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability or unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : p. Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual firm commitment cash flow hedge : or provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire net investment hedge.
or the Group has substantially transferred the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities or a part of a financial liability are Fair value hedges derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the Financial assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group has a risk being hedged with the corresponding entry being recorded currently enforceable legal right to set-off the respective recognised in the income statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the corresponding hedging instrument are recognised in the same asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
line of the income statement.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash flow hedges Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of derivatives that with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original are designated as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly maturities of three months or less.
in equity, with any ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income statement where relevant.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm ii Borrowings commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a Interest bearing borrowings are recorded at the proceeds received, non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time it is recognised, the net of direct issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been Where borrowings are in designated and effective fair value hedge recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the nonrelationships, adjustments are made to their carrying amounts to reflect financial asset or liability.
For hedges that result in the recognition of the hedged risks.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on a financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are amortised to in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item the income statement using the effective interest method.
affects net profit or loss.
96 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 96 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Net investment hedges 3 Critical accounting estimates Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations and judgements through foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS retranslation of the borrowings are recognised directly in equity.
If the requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and of the hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion being judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses experience and other factors including expectations of future events accumulated in equity are recycled through the income statement that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual on disposal of the foreign operation.
results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates, judgements In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents in and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within hedging instrument.
The Group also documents and demonstrates the next financial year are discussed below.
an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge has been and will Impairment of goodwill and other assets be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing As required, the Group applies procedures to ensure that its assets is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge are carried at no more than their recoverable amount.
The procedures, remains highly effective.
by their nature, require estimates and assumptions to be made.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument The most significant are set out below.
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies The Group is required, on at least an annual basis, to test whether for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on goodwill has suffered any impairment.
As part of this testing the the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
continuing operation of the cash generating unit and the choice Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host of suitable discount and long-term growth rates in order to calculate contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and the present value of the forecast cash flows.
Actual outcomes could characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, vary significantly from these estimates.
Further information on the and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised impairment tests undertaken, including the key assumptions, is gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets are q.
Assets and liabilities held for sale reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Computer if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction software under development is assessed for impairment annually.
rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group of an asset or a cash generating unit is determined as the higher of is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use, calculated on the basis terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets.
of managements assumptions and estimates.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be At each reporting date the Group is required to assess whether expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within there is objective evidence that its investments in associates and joint one year from the date of classification as held for sale.
This requires estimates of the investments recoverable amounts, including present values of the Groups share Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale of future cash flows.
are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
This excludes financial assets, deferred tax assets and assets Inventories arising from employee benefits, which are measured according to the relevant accounting policy.
As inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value this requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not to customers in the future.
A high degree of judgement is applied depreciated once classified as held for sale.
The Group ceases when estimating the impact on the carrying value of inventories to use the equity method of accounting from the date on which an of factors such as slow moving items, shrinkage, damage and interest in a joint venture or an interest in an associate becomes obsolescence.
The quantity, age and condition of inventories are classified as held for sale.
regularly measured and assessed as part of range reviews and inventory counts undertaken throughout the year and across the Group.
Refer to note 18 for further information.
com 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Restructuring provisions 3 Critical accounting estimates and The Group carries a number of provisions in relation to historical and judgements continued ongoing restructuring programmes.
The most significant part of the provisions is the cost to exit stores and property contracts.
The ultimate Rebates costs and timing of cash flows are dependent on exiting the property Rebate income received from suppliers represents a material element lease contracts on the closed stores and subletting surplus space.
of gross profit, with a large number of agreements with varying terms Significant assumptions are used in making these calculations, in existing across our operating companies.
particular the nature, timing and value of mitigating the lease costs, including void periods and level of sublease income, and changes in Volume-based rebates represent the significant majority of these these assumptions and future events could cause the value of these rebates.
Where the percentage rate of such rebates depends on provisions to change.
Refer to note 26 for further information.
the volumes purchased, forecasts are required, particularly at interim periods, of full usually calendar year purchases.
Forecasts are Post-employment benefits informed by historical trading patterns, current performance and trends.
However this judgement is reduced significantly for full The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised on the year reporting, due to the Groups January financial year end.
balance sheet is dependent on a number of assumptions including interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, inflation and mortality Other types of rebates, such as contributions towards marketing rates.
The net interest expense or income is dependent on the interest and advertising activities, represent a smaller element of the Groups rates of high quality corporate bonds and the net deficit or surplus overall rebate income.
These require judgement on the timing of position.
The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and recognition, in particular assessing when any corresponding changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements in conditions have been fulfilled.
To help the reader understand the impact Judgement is also required over the recoverability of receivables of changes in the key assumptions, a sensitivity analysis is provided relating to rebates.
Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
Significant judgement may therefore be required in determining the provision for income taxes in each territory.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
These adjustments in respect of prior years are recorded in the income statement, or directly in equity as appropriate, and are disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Refer to notes 9 and 25 for further information.
98 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 98 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 4 Segmental analysis Income statement 2015 16 Other International millions France UK & Ireland Poland Other Total Adjusted sales 3,786 4,853 987 705 10,331 B&Q China sales 110 Sales 10,441 Retail profit 311 326 113 4 746 Central costs 45 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 5 B&Q China operating loss 4 Exceptional items 166 Operating profit 526 Net finance costs 14 Profit before taxation 512 2014 15 restated note 2a Other International millions France UK & Ireland Poland Other Total Adjusted sales 4,132 4,600 1,055 818 10,605 B&Q China sales 361 Sales 10,966 Retail profit 349 276 118 1 742 Central costs 40 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 6 B&Q China operating loss 9 Exceptional items 35 Operating profit 652 Net finance costs 8 Profit before taxation 644 Balance sheet 2015 16 Other International millions France UK & Ireland Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,313 1,264 476 347 3,400 B&Q China investment 62 Central liabilities 219 Goodwill 2,397 Net cash 546 Net assets 6,186 2014 15 restated note 2a Other International millions France UK & Ireland Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,231 1,543 501 323 3,598 B&Q China assets including cash and liabilities held for sale 72 Central liabilities 183 Goodwill 2,414 Net cash 329 Net assets 6,230 www.
com 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental analysis continued Other segmental information 2015 16 Other International France UK & Ireland Poland Other B&Q China Central Total Capital expenditure 121 156 31 24 1 333 Depreciation and amortisation 76 131 16 16 1 240 Impairment losses 8 24 23 55 1 Non-current assets 1,899 3,229 515 284 6 5,933 2014 15 restated note 2a Other International France UK & Ireland Poland Other B&Q China Central Total Capital expenditure 93 115 14 48 3 2 275 Depreciation and amortisation 79 135 18 18 11 1 262 Impairment losses 3 17 1 9 30 1 Non-current assets 1,844 3,256 514 305 14 5,933 1 Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and investments in joint ventures and associates.
The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group Executive, representing the geographical areas in which the Group operates.
The Group only has one business segment being the supply of home improvement products and services.
The Other International segment consists of Poland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Russia, Romania and the joint venture Kota in Turkey.
Poland has been shown separately due to its significance.
Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office.
Central liabilities comprise unallocated head office and other central items including pensions, interest and tax.
5 Exceptional items millions 2015 16 2014 15 Included within selling and distribution expenses UK & Ireland and continental Europe restructuring 305 17 Brico Dpt Romania impairment 3 Transaction costs 15 308 32 Included within administrative expenses Brico Dpt Romania impairment 15 15 Included within other income Profit on disposal of B&Q China 143 Profit on disposal of property and other companies 13 Disposal of properties and non-operational asset losses 1 3 157 3 Exceptional items before tax 166 35 Exceptional tax items 67 106 Exceptional items 99 71 100 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 100 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Current year exceptional items include a 305m restructuring charge relating to the transformation of B&Q in the UK and the announced closure of loss-making stores in France and other countries in continental Europe.
In the UK, the exceptional charge for the transformation of B&Q involves the closure of stores in over-spaced catchments and optimisation of vacant space, along with productivity initiatives aimed at delivering a simpler, more efficient business with a lower cost operating model.
The exceptional loss includes lease exit costs, store asset impairments, employee redundancy costs, and inventory write downs arising from store closures and harmonisation of the stock management operating model.
In the prior year, transformation costs amounted to 17m.
In continental Europe, the exceptional charge includes lease exit costs and store asset impairments.
An exceptional loss of 18m has been recorded for the impairment of goodwill and certain store properties relating to the Brico Dpt Romania business.
This has arisen from a strategic review of the business following recent trading results falling below expectations in an ongoing difficult trading environment.
Refer to note 12 for further information.
In the prior year, exceptional transaction costs were incurred relating to the potential acquisition of Mr Bricolage, which ultimately did not proceed, and the agreement to dispose of a controlling stake in the B&Q China business.
Profits were recorded in the year on the disposal of the Groups controlling 70% stake in B&Q China and the sale of property and other companies.
Refer to note 33 for further information.
Exceptional tax items for the year amount to a credit of 67m.
In the prior year, exceptional tax credits included the tax impact on exceptional items and the release of prior year provisions, which had either been agreed with the tax authorities, reassessed or time expired.
6 Net finance costs millions 2015 16 2014 15 Bank overdrafts and bank loans 8 7 Fixed term debt 3 3 Finance leases 3 3 Financing fair value remeasurements 4 4 Unwinding of discount on provisions 1 1 Net interest expense on defined benefit pension schemes 3 Other interest payable 3 Finance costs 22 13 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits 3 5 Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes 5 Finance income 8 5 Net finance costs 14 8 Fixed term debt interest includes net interest income accrued on derivatives of 9m 2014 15: 11m income and amortisation of issue costs of borrowings of 1m 2014 15: nil.
Financing fair value remeasurements comprise a net gain on derivatives, excluding accrued interest, of 5m 2014 15: 21m gain, offset by a net loss from fair value adjustments to the carrying value of borrowings and cash of 9m 2014 15: 17m loss.
com 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Profit before taxation The following items of revenue have been credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2015 16 2014 15 Sales 10,441 10,966 Other income 183 37 Finance income 8 5 Revenue 10,632 11,008 The following items of expense income have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2015 16 2014 15 Operating lease rentals 1 Minimum lease payments Property 411 440 Minimum lease payments Equipment 29 40 Sublease income 6 18 434 462 Rental income received on investment property 4 6 2 Amortisation of other intangible assets 49 39 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property Owned assets 180 212 Under finance leases 11 11 Impairment of goodwill 15 Impairment of other intangible assets 3 8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 37 22 Gain loss on disposal Land and buildings, investment property and property held for sale 1 21 Fixtures, fittings and equipment 4 1 Inventories: write down to net realisable value 38 25 Trade and other receivables: write down of bad and doubtful debts 4 4 1 Excludes rentals provided against as part of exceptional restructuring provision see note 26.
2 Of the amortisation of other intangible assets charge, 1m 2014 15: 1m and 48m 2014 15: 38m are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Auditors remuneration millions 2015 16 2014 15 Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.1 1.4 Audit fees 1.4 1.8 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.2 Other assurance services 0.1 Non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 Auditors remuneration 1.6 2.0 Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 48.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
102 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 102 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 8 Employees and directors millions 2015 16 2014 15 Wages and salaries 1,227 1,260 Social security costs 228 253 Post-employment benefits Defined contribution 25 28 Defined benefit service cost only 8 9 Share-based compensation 11 11 Employee benefit expenses 1,499 1,561 Number thousands 2015 16 2014 15 Stores 71 72 Administration 5 5 Average number of persons employed 76 77 The average number of persons employed excludes employees in the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Remuneration of key management personnel millions 2015 16 2014 15 Short-term employee benefits 9.4 7.2 Post-employment benefits 0.4 1.2 Termination benefits 0.8 1.5 Share-based compensation 2.5 1.4 13.1 11.3 Key management consists of the Board of Directors and the Group Executive.
Further detail with respect to the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 75.
Other than as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report, there have been no transactions with key management during the year 2014 15: nil.
9 Income tax expense millions 2015 16 2014 15 UK corporation tax Current tax on profits for the year 7 46 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 96 3 50 Overseas tax Current tax on profits for the year 117 138 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7 6 110 132 Deferred tax Current year 14 12 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 1 1 13 11 Income tax expense 100 71 www.
com 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Income tax expense continued Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2014 15: 21%.
The differences are explained below: millions 2015 16 2014 15 Profit before taxation 512 644 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2014 15: 21% 102 135 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 1 1 Net income not chargeable for tax purposes 26 1 Deferred tax assets utilised not previously recognised 8 4 Temporary differences: Net gains on property 1 4 Losses not recognised 6 11 Foreign tax rate differences 38 36 Adjustments in respect of prior years 11 102 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 1 1 Income tax expense 100 71 The effective rate of tax on profit before exceptional items and excluding prior year tax adjustments and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax is 26% 2014 15: 27%.
Exceptional tax items for the year amount to a credit of 67m, 1m of which relates to prior year items.
In 2014 15 exceptional tax items amounted to a credit of 106m, 95m relating to prior year items.
The effective tax rate calculation is set out in the Financial Review on page 27.
The overall tax rate for the year is 20% 2014 15: 11% reflecting tax relief on exceptional items as well as the release of prior year provisions which have been either agreed with the tax authorities, reassessed or time expired.
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of nil has been credited directly to equity 2014 15: 99m charge, of which a 18m credit 2014 15: 13m credit is included in current tax and a 18m charge 2014 15: 112m charge is included in deferred tax and principally relates to post-employment benefits.
Future changes in tax rates The UK corporation tax rate fell from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015 and will fall to 19% from 1 April 2017 and then to 18% from 1 April 2020.
A further reduction to 17% was announced in March 2016 which is expected to take effect from 1 April 2020.
As this reduction has not yet been substantively enacted, its impact is not included in these financial statements.
The Spanish tax rate fell from 30% to 28% for the year ended 31 December 2015 and will fall to 25% for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The surcharge in France ceased with effect from 1 January 2016, meaning the applicable rate in France going forward will fall from 38% to 34.43%.
104 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 104 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 10 Earnings per share 2015 16 2014 15 restated note 2a Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share millions millions pence millions millions pence Basic earnings per share 412 2,311 17.8 573 2,358 24.3 Effect of dilutive share options 8 11 0.1 Diluted earnings per share 412 2,319 17.8 573 2,369 24.2 Basic earnings per share 412 2,311 17.8 573 2,358 24.3 B&Q China operating loss 4 0.2 9 0.4 Exceptional items before tax 166 7.2 35 1.5 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 76 3.3 112 4.8 Financing fair value remeasurements 4 0.2 4 0.2 Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1 0.1 1 0.1 Adjusted basic earnings per share 509 2,311 22.0 502 2,358 21.3 Diluted earnings per share 412 2,319 17.8 573 2,369 24.2 B&Q China operating loss 4 0.2 9 0.4 Exceptional items before tax 166 7.2 35 1.5 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 76 3.3 112 4.8 Financing fair value remeasurements 4 0.2 4 0.2 Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1 0.1 1 0.1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 509 2,319 22.0 502 2,369 21.2 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan trust ESOP trust which for the purpose of this calculation are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where both the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys shares during the year and any related performance conditions have been met.
11 Dividends millions 2015 16 2014 15 Dividends to equity shareholders of the Company Ordinary interim dividend for the year ended 31 January 2016 of 3.18p per share 31 January 2015: 3.15p per share 72 75 Special interim dividend of 4.2p per share paid 25 July 2014 100 Ordinary final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2015 of 6.85p per share 1 February 2014: 6.78p per share 160 159 232 334 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2016 of 6.92p per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability.
com 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Goodwill millions Cost At 1 February 2015 2,414 Disposals 2 At 31 January 2016 2,412 Impairment At 1 February 2015 Charge for the year 15 At 31 January 2016 15 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 2,397 Cost At 2 February 2014 2,541 Transfers to assets held for sale 131 Exchange differences 4 At 31 January 2015 2,414 Impairment At 2 February 2014 124 Transfers to assets held for sale 131 Exchange differences 7 At 31 January 2015 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 2,414 An impairment loss of 15m has been recognised at the year end relating to all of the goodwill in the Brico Dpt Romania business, which forms part of the Other International reporting segment.
This has arisen from a strategic review of the business following recent trading results falling below expectations in an ongoing difficult trading environment, resulting in a revision to projections for future performance.
Goodwill relating to B&Q China was reclassified to assets held for sale in the prior year.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units CGUs as follows: millions UK France Poland Romania Total At 31 January 2016 Cost 1,796 520 81 15 2,412 Impairment 15 15 Net carrying amount 1,796 520 81 2,397 At 31 January 2015 Cost 1,798 519 81 16 2,414 Net carrying amount 1,798 519 81 16 2,414 The recoverable amounts of these groups of CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
All CGU value-in-use calculations are considered to have been valued using level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
106 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 106 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements The groups of CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed significant are the UK, France and Poland.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are set out below.
Assumptions The cash flow projections are based on approved financial budgets and strategic plans covering a five year period.
These are based on both past performance and expectations for future market development.
The projections reflect the expected benefits of the ONE Kingfisher plan, including the three key pillars of creating a unified, unique and leading offer, driving the Groups digital capability and optimising operational efficiency.
For further details, refer to the Strategic Report.
Key drivers in the strategic plans are sales growth, margin and operating profit percentages.
Sales projections take into consideration both external factors such as market expectations, and internal factors such as trading plans and in particular the Groups transformation programme.
They assume sales increases in each country that are higher than recent experience and market growth expectations, driven largely by an improved offer, price reinvestment and growth in digital engagement with customers.
Assumed margin percentage improvements reflect a lower cost of goods sold from leveraging the Groups buying scale through a unified offer, which will be partially offset by range clearance and implementation costs.
Higher assumed operating profit percentages reflect operational leverage from increased sales as well as cost savings through operational efficiencies, in particular from unifying goods not for resale spend.
Cash flows beyond this five year period are calculated using a growth rate which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for retail businesses operating in the same countries as the CGUs.
The Board has reviewed a sensitivity analysis, including elimination of the projected benefits of the transformation plan, and does not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations would cause the carrying amounts of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amounts.
The weighted average cost of capital, used to discount future cash flows, is calculated using a combination of the cost of debt, leases and equity, weighted according to an estimate of the CGUs capital gearing.
A risk adjustment is also made for the country in which the CGU operates.
The pre-tax risk adjusted nominal discount rates and long-term growth rates used are as follows: 2015 16 Annual % rate UK France Poland Discount rate 8.4 8.2 8.6 Long-term growth rate 2.9 2.3 3.1 2014 15 Annual % rate UK France Poland Discount rate 8.6 8.7 8.7 Long-term growth rate 3.0 2.4 3.5 www.
com 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Other intangible assets Computer millions software Other Total Cost At 1 February 2015 542 12 554 Additions 71 71 Disposals 1 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 2 2 At 31 January 2016 610 12 622 Amortisation At 1 February 2015 290 6 296 Charge for the year 48 1 49 Impairment losses 3 3 Disposals 1 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 At 31 January 2016 339 7 346 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 271 5 276 Cost At 2 February 2014 490 12 502 Additions 86 1 87 Disposals 17 17 Transfers to assets held for sale 12 12 Exchange differences 5 1 6 At 31 January 2015 542 12 554 Amortisation At 2 February 2014 275 5 280 Charge for the year 38 1 39 Impairment losses 8 8 Disposals 17 17 Transfers to assets held for sale 10 10 Exchange differences 4 4 At 31 January 2015 290 6 296 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 252 6 258 Additions in the year primarily related to the development of the unified IT platform, which will be amortised over its estimated useful life of 10 years as it becomes available for use in the operating companies.
None of the Groups other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
108 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 108 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 14 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and millions buildings equipment Total Cost At 1 February 2015 2,787 2,476 5,263 Additions 86 174 260 Disposals 13 42 55 Transfers to assets held for sale 6 6 Transfers to investment property 17 17 Exchange differences 4 9 13 At 31 January 2016 2,841 2,617 5,458 Depreciation At 1 February 2015 380 1,680 2,060 Charge for the year 42 149 191 Impairment losses 17 19 36 Disposals 10 38 48 Exchange differences 1 6 7 At 31 January 2016 430 1,816 2,246 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 2,411 801 3,212 Cost At 2 February 2014 3,160 2,587 5,747 Additions 58 146 204 Disposals 19 59 78 Transfers to assets held for sale 214 113 327 Exchange differences 198 85 283 At 31 January 2015 2,787 2,476 5,263 Depreciation At 2 February 2014 429 1,693 2,122 Charge for the year 51 172 223 Impairment losses 9 3 12 Disposals 4 58 62 Transfers to assets held for sale 87 85 172 Exchange differences 18 45 63 At 31 January 2015 380 1,680 2,060 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 2,407 796 3,203 Assets in the course of construction included above at net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 34 29 63 At 31 January 2015 33 40 73 Assets held under finance leases included above at net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 14 24 38 At 31 January 2015 16 28 44 Store asset impairment losses of 36m were recorded in the year as part of the UK and continental Europe exceptional restructuring programmes set out in note 5.
These were based on a determination of recoverable amounts of the stores as the net present value of future pre-tax cash flows value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell using market valuations performed by independent external valuers if higher.
com 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued The cumulative total of borrowing costs included at the balance sheet date, net of depreciation, is 27m 2014 15: 27m.
Land and buildings are analysed as follows: 2015 16 2014 15 Long Short millions Freehold leasehold leasehold Total Total Cost 2,318 136 387 2,841 2,787 Depreciation 184 15 231 430 380 Net carrying amount 2,134 121 156 2,411 2,407 Included in land and buildings is leasehold land that is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and is accordingly being amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The net carrying amount of leasehold land included in land and buildings at 31 January 2016 is 135m 2014 15: 170m.
The Group does not revalue properties within its financial statements.
A valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually in October by independent external valuers.
Based on this exercise the value of property is 2.9bn 2014 15: 2.7bn on a sale and leaseback basis with Kingfisher in occupancy.
The key assumption used in calculating this is the estimated yields.
All the property, plant and equipment market valuations are considered to have been determined by level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
For poorly performing stores, a vacant possession valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to sell when reviewing for impairment.
15 Investment property millions Cost At 1 February 2015 41 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 17 Disposals 21 At 31 January 2016 37 Depreciation At 1 February 2015 11 Impairment losses 1 At 31 January 2016 12 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 25 Cost At 2 February 2014 60 Transfers to assets held for sale 19 At 31 January 2015 41 Depreciation At 2 February 2014 10 Impairment losses 10 Transfers to assets held for sale 9 At 31 January 2015 11 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2015 30 A property valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually as described in note 14.
Based on this exercise the fair value of investment property is 37m 2014 15: 60m.
All the investment properties held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
110 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 110 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 16 Investments in joint ventures and associates millions At 1 February 2015 28 Share of post-tax results 3 Dividends 5 Exchange differences 3 At 31 January 2016 23 At 2 February 2014 32 Share of post-tax results 5 Dividends 7 Exchange differences 2 At 31 January 2015 28 No goodwill is included in the carrying amount of investments in joint ventures and associates 2014 15: nil.
Details of the significant joint ventures and associates are shown below: Principal place Class of of business % interest held shares owned Main activity Principal joint venture 1 Kota Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. Turkey 50% Ordinary Retailing Principal associate 1 Crealfi S. A. France 49% Ordinary Finance 1 This company prepares its financial statements to 31 December.
Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures and associates: 2015 16 2014 15 Joint Joint millions ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total Non-current assets 20 2 22 22 2 24 Current assets 51 63 114 53 62 115 Current liabilities 40 53 93 42 53 95 Non-current liabilities 20 20 16 16 Share of net assets 11 12 23 17 11 28 Sales 150 11 161 160 12 172 Operating expenses 143 10 153 151 10 161 Operating profit 7 18 9 2 11 Net finance costs 4 4 4 4 Profit before taxation 3 14 5 2 7 Income tax expense 1 1 1 1 2 Share of post-tax results 2 1 3 4 1 5 17 Available-for-sale financial assets millions 2015 16 2014 15 B&Q China investment 62 The Group held a 30% interest in B&Q China, which was held at fair value refer to note 33 for further details.
During the period since classification of the investment as an available-for-sale financial asset, fair value gains of 2m have been recognised in other comprehensive income.
The fair value was based on a consideration of the economic value attributed to the B&Q China business.
The valuation incorporates non-observable inputs that would be classified as level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
com 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Inventories millions 2015 16 2014 15 Finished goods for resale 1,957 2,021 Included within finished goods for resale is a deduction for rebates to reflect inventories that have not been sold at the balance sheet date.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 January 2016 is 5,986m 2014 15: 6,373m.
19 Trade and other receivables millions 2015 16 2014 15 Non-current Prepayments 5 5 Property receivables 1 1 Other receivables 1 1 7 7 Current Trade receivables 65 63 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 7 8 Net trade receivables 58 55 Property receivables 2 2 Prepayments 124 121 Rebates due from suppliers 313 308 Other receivables 71 51 568 537 Trade and other receivables 575 544 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Refer to note 24 for information on the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables.
20 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits millions 2015 16 2014 15 Cash at bank and in hand 220 171 Other cash and cash equivalents 510 390 Cash and cash equivalents 730 561 Other cash and cash equivalents comprise bank deposits and investments in money market funds, fixed for periods of up to three months.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their carrying amounts.
The Group enters into multi-currency net overdraft facilities and cash pooling agreements with its banks.
These agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the counterparties to offset overdraft balances against available cash in the ordinary course of business and or in the event that the counterparty is unable to fulfil its contractual obligations.
millions 2015 16 2014 15 Short-term deposits 70 48 Short-term deposits comprise bank deposits with original maturities of between three and 12 months.
The fair values of short-term deposits approximate to their carrying amounts.
112 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 112 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 21 Trade and other payables 2014 15 restated millions 2015 16 note 2a Current Trade payables 1,339 1,366 Other taxation and social security 244 210 Deferred income 122 119 Contract to purchase own shares 50 50 Deposit received in advance of B&Q China disposal 12 Accruals and other payables 614 580 2,369 2,337 Non-current Accruals and other payables 53 64 Trade and other payables 2,422 2,401 The contract to purchase own shares relates to a liability arising under an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement for the purchase of the Companys own shares see note 28.
Accruals include allowance for customer returns, representing the estimate of future sales returns at the year end.
The fair values of trade and other payables approximate to their carrying amounts.
22 Borrowings millions 2015 16 2014 15 Current Bank overdrafts 76 91 Bank loans 2 2 Fixed term debt 48 Finance leases 12 12 138 105 Non-current Bank loans 8 9 Fixed term debt 137 183 Finance leases 34 40 179 232 Borrowings 317 337 Bank overdrafts and loans Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Current bank loans mature within the next 12 months.
These are arranged at floating rates of interest.
Non-current bank loans have an average maturity of three years 2014 15: three years and are arranged at fixed rates of interest with an effective interest rate of 1.6% 2014 15: 3.1%.
com 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Borrowings continued 2015 16 2014 15 Principal Effective Carrying Carrying millions outstanding Maturity date Coupon interest rate amount amount 1 US Dollar USPP $68m 24 05 16 6.3% 6.3% 48 47 1 US Dollar USPP $179m 24 05 18 6.4% 6.4% 137 136 185 183 1 $247m swapped to floating rate Sterling based on 6 month LIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
The Group values its USPP on an amortised cost basis, adjusted for fair value gains and losses based on observable market inputs attributable to the risk being hedged in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships.
The carrying amounts of the USPP have been impacted both by exchange rate movements and fair value adjustments for interest rate risk.
At 31 January 2016, the cumulative effect of interest rate fair value adjustments is to increase the Groups USPP carrying amounts by 12m 2014 15: 19m increase.
The USPP contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2016.
Finance leases The Group leases certain of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term maturity for buildings is six years 2014 15: seven years and for fixtures and equipment is two years 2014 15: two years.
Certain building leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows: 2015 16 2014 15 Present Present value of Minimum value of Minimum millions payments payments payments payments Less than one year 12 14 12 15 One to five years 21 26 23 32 More than five years 13 17 17 22 Total 46 57 52 69 Less amounts representing finance charges 11 17 Present value of minimum lease payments 46 52 The interest rates inherent in the finance leases are fixed at the contract date for the lease term.
The weighted average effective interest rate on the Groups finance leases is 8.6% 2014 15: 8.7%.
Fair value millions 2015 16 2014 15 Bank overdrafts 76 91 Bank loans 11 12 Fixed term debt 192 190 Finance leases 56 68 Borrowings 335 361 Fair values of borrowings have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates.
This has resulted in level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
114 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 114 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 23 Derivatives The net fair value of derivatives by hedge designation at the balance sheet date is: millions 2015 16 2014 15 Fair value hedges 56 54 Cash flow hedges 27 54 Non-designated hedges 10 4 93 112 Non-current assets 43 52 Current assets 56 70 Current liabilities 6 10 93 112 The Group holds the following derivative financial instruments at fair value: millions 2015 16 2014 15 Cross currency interest rate swaps 56 54 Foreign exchange contracts 43 68 Derivative assets 99 122 millions 2015 16 2014 15 Foreign exchange contracts 6 10 Derivative liabilities 6 10 The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash flows arising from the instruments and adjusted for credit risk.
These fair value measurements are all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and credit risk.
All the derivatives held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, representing significant observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
At 31 January 2016 net derivative assets included in net cash amount to 63m 2014 15: 57m net derivative assets.
Fair value hedges Fair value hedges comprise cross currency interest rate swap contracts that convert US Private Placement fixed rate debt into floating rate liabilities.
At 31 January 2016 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 174m 2014 15: 164m.
The Group also had an option to sell its 30% interest in B&Q China in the future refer to note 33 for further details.
At 31 January 2016 the fair value of the option was judged not to be significant.
The value of the option was based on the value of the investment, which incorporated non-observable inputs that would be classified as level 3 in the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy.
Cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge currency exposures of forecast inventory purchases.
At 31 January 2016 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 504m 2014 15: 603m.
The associated fair value gains and losses will be transferred to inventories when the purchases occur during the next 12 months.
Gains of 50m 2014 15: 5m gains have been transferred to inventories for contracts which matured during the year.
Non-designated hedges The Group has entered into certain derivatives to provide a hedge against fluctuations in the income statement arising from balance sheet positions.
At 31 January 2016 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 504m 2014 15: 704m.
These have not been accounted for as hedges, since the fair value movements of the derivatives in the income statement offset the retranslation of the balance sheet positions.
These include short-term foreign exchange contracts.
The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for embedded derivatives and none of these contracts has any embedded derivatives which are not closely related to the host contract and therefore the Group is not required to account for these separately.
The Group enters into netting agreements with counterparties to manage the credit and settlement risks associated with over-the-counter derivatives.
These netting agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the Group and its counterparties to settle cash flows on a net basis and set-off liabilities against available assets in the event that either party is unable to fulfill its contractual obligations.
com 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Derivatives continued Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities: Net amounts of Gross amounts Gross amounts derivatives of derivatives not Gross amounts offset in the presented in the offset in the of recognised consolidated consolidated consolidated millions derivatives balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet Net amount At 31 January 2016 Derivative assets 99 99 6 93 Derivative liabilities 6 6 6 At 31 January 2015 Derivative assets 122 122 10 112 Derivative liabilities 10 10 10 24 Financial risk management Kingfishers treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage these risks.
Kingfishers treasury function is not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
In the normal course of business the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives.
The main types of financial instruments used are fixed term debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk Borrowings arranged at floating rates of interest expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at fixed rates of interest expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments, principally the fixed term debt.
Currency risk The Groups principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble.
The Euro, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble exposures are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Ireland, Poland and Russia.
In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone, and as such is exposed to the economic uncertainty of its member states.
The Group continues to monitor potential exposures and risks, and consider effective risk management solutions.
It is the Groups policy not to hedge the translation of overseas earnings into Sterling.
In addition, the Group has significant transactional exposure arising on the purchase of inventories denominated in US Dollars, which it hedges using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Under Group policies, the Group companies are required to hedge committed inventory purchases and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 12 months, and this is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Kingfishers policy is to manage the interest rate and currency profile of its debt and cash using derivative contracts.
The effect of these contracts on the Groups net debt cash is as follows: Sterling Euro US Dollar Other millions Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Total At 31 January 2016 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 32 188 23 26 174 461 49 495 Fair value adjustments to net cash 12 12 Financing derivatives 437 259 187 5 49 63 Net cash 32 249 23 285 1 466 98 546 At 31 January 2015 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 36 179 19 11 164 291 51 291 Fair value adjustments to net cash 19 19 Financing derivatives 723 341 185 161 93 57 Net cash 36 544 19 330 2 452 144 329 116 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 116 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Financial instruments principally affected by interest rate and currency risks, being the significant market risks impacting Kingfisher, are borrowings, deposits and derivatives.
The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of net finance costs reflecting the impact on profit and derivative cash flow hedges reflecting the impact on other comprehensive income to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
2015 16 2014 15 Net finance Net finance costs costs Income Income millions costs costs Effect of 1% rise in interest rates on net finance costs Sterling 2 5 Euro 3 3 US Dollar 5 5 Polish Zloty 1 2 Due to the Groups hedging arrangements and offsetting foreign currency assets and liabilities, there is no significant impact on profit from the retranslation of financial instruments.
2015 16 2014 15 Derivative Derivative cash flow cash flow hedges hedges millions Increase Increase Effect of 10% appreciation in foreign exchange rates on derivative cash flow hedges US Dollar against Sterling 33 36 US Dollar against Euro 24 25 US Dollar against Polish Zloty 5 3 The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash flow hedges results from retranslation of forward purchases of US Dollars used to hedge forecast US Dollar purchases of inventories.
The associated fair value gains and losses are deferred in equity until the purchases occur.
See note 23 for further details.
The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying amount of trade and other payables and receivables, due to the low associated sensitivity, and are before the effect of tax.
It has been prepared on the basis that the Groups debt, hedging activities, hedge accounting designations, and foreign currency proportion of debt and derivative contracts remain constant, reflecting the positions at 31 January 2016 and 31 January 2015 respectively.
As a consequence, the analysis relates to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
In preparing the sensitivity analysis it is assumed that all hedges are fully effective.
The effects shown above would be reversed in the event of an equal and opposite change in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
com 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent cash flow forecast for the next five years, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayments of debt at its maturity and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
It excludes trade and other payables and short term foreign exchange contracts due to the low associated liquidity risk.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Less than More than millions 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 January 2016 Bank overdrafts 76 76 Bank loans 3 3 1 2 1 10 Fixed term debt 57 8 130 195 Finance leases 14 9 7 5 5 17 57 Derivatives receipts 57 8 130 195 Derivatives payments 38 1 98 137 At 31 January 2015 Bank overdrafts 91 91 Bank loans 2 3 3 2 2 12 Fixed term debt 10 54 8 123 195 Finance leases 15 12 8 7 5 22 69 Derivatives receipts 10 54 8 123 195 Derivatives payments 1 38 2 98 139 At 31 January 2016 the Group had an undrawn revolving committed facility of 225m which was due to mature in March 2020.
After the balance sheet date an extension has been arranged to March 2021.
The 225m facility contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each annual and semi-annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2016. Credit risk The Group deposits surplus cash with a number of banks with the strongest short-term credit ratings and with money market funds which have AAA credit ratings and offer same day liquidity.
A credit limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value of deposits and the fair value of derivative contracts.
The credit risk is reduced further by spreading the investments and derivative contracts across several counterparties.
At 31 January 2016, the highest total cash investment with a single counterparty was 63m 2014 15: 38m.
The Groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade and other receivables, cash at bank, short-term deposits and the fair value of derivative assets.
No further credit risk provision is required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts as the Group has a low concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables.
Concentration of risk is limited as a result of low individual balances with short maturity spread across a large number of unrelated customers.
At 31 January 2016, trade and other receivables that are past due but not provided against amount to 62m 2014 15: 49m, of which 1m 2014 15: 4m are over 120 days past due.
Refer to note 36 for details on guarantees provided by the Group.
Capital risk Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial Review on page 29.
25 Deferred tax 2014 15 restated millions 2015 16 note 2a Deferred tax assets 11 10 Deferred tax liabilities 333 324 322 314 118 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 118 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
PostAccelerated tax Gains on employment millions depreciation property Provisions Tax losses benefits Other Total At 1 February 2015 144 91 28 4 101 10 314 Charge credit to income statement 6 4 85 2 13 Charge credit to equity 10 17 9 18 Exchange differences 1 3 1 3 At 31 January 2016 151 90 26 9 116 322 At 2 February 2014 restated note 2a 151 114 24 7 5 5 234 Charge credit to income statement 6 8 8 2 1 4 11 Charge to equity 1 92 19 112 Transfers to liabilities held for sale 9 9 Exchange differences 13 6 3 1 3 12 At 31 January 2015 restated note 2a 144 91 28 4 101 10 314 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 103m 2014 15: 259m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 45m 2014 15: 20m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 58m 2014 15: 239m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
As a result of the disposal of B&Q China, 200m of unrecognised losses have now been excluded.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses arising in Portugal of 5m which can be carried forward only in the next one to twelve years.
Other unrecognised losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 3,630m 2014 15: 3,384m relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
This is because the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group and therefore no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
26 Provisions Onerous property millions contracts Restructuring Total At 1 February 2015 26 21 47 Charge to income statement 266 266 Utilised in the year 5 28 33 Reclassification 3 3 Unwinding of discount 1 1 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 January 2016 21 256 277 Current liabilities 2 67 69 Non-current liabilities 19 189 208 21 256 277 Within the onerous property contracts provisions, the Group has provided against future liabilities for properties sublet at a shortfall and longterm idle properties, along with properties acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries at above-market rents.
Such provisions exclude those related to restructuring programmes which are included in the restructuring provisions.
The provisions are based on the present value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges net of sublease income.
Restructuring provisions include the estimated costs of the UK and continental Europe restructuring programmes as detailed further in note 5, the vast majority of which relates to future idle property costs, in addition to some employee redundancy costs.
For the B&Q UK onerous leases, the weighted average remaining lease term to earliest exit, before any surrenders, assignment or mitigation through subleases, is seven years.
The provisions have been discounted to reflect the time value of money and the risks associated with the specific liabilities.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on exiting the property lease contracts and subletting surplus space.
com 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Post-employment benefits The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
The most significant defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are in the UK.
The principal overseas defined benefit schemes are in France, where they are mainly retirement indemnity in nature.
The overseas schemes are not material in relation to the Group as a whole.
Defined contribution schemes Costs for the Groups defined contribution pension schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes rules, are as follows: millions 2015 16 2014 15 Charge to operating profit 25 28 From July 2012 an enhanced defined contribution pension scheme was offered to all UK employees.
Eligible UK employees have been automatically enrolled into the scheme since 31 March 2013.
Defined benefit schemes The Groups principal defined benefit arrangement is its funded, final salary pension scheme in the UK.
This scheme was closed to new entrants from April 2004 and was closed to future benefit accrual from July 2012.
The scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation.
The Trustee Board consists of ten Trustee directors, made up of five employer appointed directors, one independent director and four member nominated directors.
The Trustee Board delegates day-to-day administration of the scheme to the Group Pensions Department of Kingfisher plc.
The main risk to the Group is that additional contributions are required if investment returns and demographic experience are worse than expected.
The scheme therefore exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Trustee Board regularly reviews such risks and mitigating controls, with a risk register being formally approved on an annual basis.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from the Group and the Trustees investment strategy includes a planned medium-term fide-risking of assets, switching from return-seeking to liability-matching assets.
Other fide-risking activities have included the scheme acquiring an interest in a property partnership, as set out further below.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2013.
Following this valuation and in accordance with the schemes Statement of Funding Principles, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed annual employer contributions of 36m from April 2014.
The contribution schedule has been derived with reference to a funding objective that targets a longer-term, low risk funding position in excess of the minimum statutory funding requirements.
This longer-term objective is based on the principle of the scheme reaching a point where it can provide benefits to members with a high level of security, thereby limiting its reliance on the employer for future support.
The Company monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will review with the scheme Trustee at future valuations the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently in place.
The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business the trustees have no rights to unilaterally wind up, or otherwise augment the benefits due to members of, the scheme.
Based on these rights, any net surplus in the UK scheme is recognised in full.
UK scheme interest in property partnership In 2010 11, the Group established a partnership, Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership Kingfisher SLP, as part of an arrangement with the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Trustee.
The partnership interests are held by the Group and by the scheme, the latter resulting from investments of 78m and 106m made by the Trustee in January and June 2011 respectively.
These investments followed Group contributions of the same amounts into the scheme.
In accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits, the investments held by the scheme in Kingfisher SLP do not represent plan assets for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly the reported pension position does not reflect these investments.
UK property assets with market values of 83m and 119m were transferred, in January 2011 and June 2011 respectively, into the partnership and leased back to B&Q plc.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute alternative properties.
The Trustee has a first charge over the properties in the event that Kingfisher plc becomes insolvent.
The schemes partnership interest entitles it to the majority of the income of the partnership over the 20 year period of the arrangement.
The payments to the scheme by Kingfisher SLP over this term are reflected as Group pension contributions on a cash basis.
At the end of this term, Kingfisher plc has the option to acquire the Trustees partnership interest in Kingfisher SLP.
The Group has control over the partnership and therefore it is consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Accordingly, advantage has been taken of the exemptions provided by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements for preparation, delivery and publication of the partnerships accounts.
120 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 120 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Income statement 2015 16 2014 15 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Amounts charged credited to operating profit Current service cost 2 68 2 7 9 Administration costs 4 4 3 3 Curtailment gain 9 9 6 6 12 5 2 3 Amounts charged credited to net finance costs Net interest income expense 6 1 5 1 2 3 Total charged to income statement 77 6 6 In the prior year a curtailment gain of 9m was recognised in relation to the closure of a senior executive scheme in France.
Of the net charge to operating profit, a 9m charge 2014 15: 7m charge and 3m charge 2014 15: 4m credit are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Balance sheet 2015 16 2014 15 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,374 102 2,476 2,606 97 2,703 Fair value of scheme assets 2,620 15 2,635 2,800 15 2,815 Net surplus deficit in schemes 246 87 159 194 82 112 Movements in the surplus or deficit are as follows: 2015 16 2014 15 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Net surplus deficit in schemes at beginning of year 194 82 112 29 71 100 Current service cost 2 6 8 2 7 9 Administration costs 4 4 3 3 Curtailment gain 9 9 Net interest income expense 6 1 5 1 2 3 Net actuarial gains losses 16 3 19 194 19 175 Contributions paid by employer 36 1 37 35 1 36 Exchange differences 2 2 7 7 Net surplus deficit in schemes at end of year 246 87 159 194 82 112 Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2015 16 2014 15 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Present value of defined benefit obligations at beginning 2,606 97 2,703 2,135 92 2,227 of year Current service cost 2 6 8 2 7 9 Curtailment gain 9 9 Interest expense 77 1 78 93 3 96 Actuarial gains losses changes in financial assumptions 200 1 201 471 20 491 Actuarial gains experience adjustments 33 2 35 30 1 31 Benefits paid 78 1 79 65 7 72 Exchange differences 2 2 8 8 Present value of defined benefit obligations at end of year 2,374 102 2,476 2,606 97 2,703 www.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Post-employment benefits continued The present value of UK scheme defined benefit obligation is 62% 2014 15: 62% in respect of deferred members and 38% 2014 15: 38% in respect of current pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the UK scheme obligations at the end of the year is 20 years 2014 15: 21 years.
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2015 16 2014 15 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 2,800 15 2,815 2,106 21 2,127 Administration costs 4 4 3 3 Interest income 83 83 92 1 93 Actuarial losses actual return less interest income 217 217 635 635 Contributions paid by employer 36 1 37 35 1 36 Benefits paid 78 1 79 65 7 72 Exchange differences 1 1 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 2,620 15 2,635 2,800 15 2,815 On 11 December 2015 the scheme entered into a medically underwritten annuity policy with a major insurance company for certain pensioner liabilities, thereby removing the longevity risk associated with these members.
Measured against the long-term funding objective that has been agreed between Kingfisher and the Trustee, entering into the annuity represented a small funding improvement.
As the cost of the annuity of 228m was greater than the IAS 19 accounting value of the corresponding liabilities, a loss of 44m has been recorded in other comprehensive income included as part of actuarial losses in the assets table above.
All UK scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets, except for 331m 2014 15: 165m of property, annuity and other assets.
To reduce volatility risk a liability driven investment LDI strategy forms part of the Trustees management of the UK defined benefit schemes assets, including government bonds, corporate bonds and derivatives.
The government bond assets category in the table above includes gross assets of 2.8bn 2014 15: 2.4bn and associated repurchase agreement liabilities of 1.6bn 2014 15: 1.1bn.
Repurchase agreements are entered into with counterparties to better offset the schemes exposure to interest and inflation rates, whilst remaining invested in assets of a similar risk profile.
Interest rate and inflation rate derivatives are also employed to complement the use of fixed and index-linked bonds in matching the profile of the schemes liabilities.
The estimated amount of total contributions to be paid to the UK and overseas pension schemes by the Group during the next financial year is 36m.
Principal actuarial valuation assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements in the estimated obligations, as illustrated in the sensitivity analysis.
The UK scheme discount rate is derived using a single equivalent discount rate approach, based on the yields available on a portfolio of high-quality sterling corporate bonds with the same duration as that of the scheme liabilities.
122 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 122 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 2015 16 2014 15 Annual % rate UK Overseas UKOverseas Discount rate 3.6 1.8 3.0 1.8 Price inflation 3.1 2.0 2.8 2.0 Rate of pension increases 2.9 2.7 Salary escalation n a 2.4 n a 2.5 For the UK scheme, the mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations have been selected with regard to the characteristics and experience of the membership of the scheme from 2010 to 2013.
The base mortality assumptions have been derived by adjusting standard mortality tables SAPS tables projected forward to 2013 using the CMI 2013 core projection improvement factors, as published by the UK actuarial profession.
In addition, allowance has been made for future increases in life expectancy.
The allowance is in line with CMI 2013 improvements subject to a long-term rate of 1.25% pa for males and 1.0% pa for females.
These improvements take into account trends observed within the scheme over the past decade and general population trends.
The assumptions for life expectancy of UK scheme members are as follows: Years 2015 16 2014 15 Age to which current pensioners are expected to live 60 now Male 86.8 86.7 Female 87.4 87.3 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live 60 in 15 years time Male 87.5 87.4 Female 88.6 88.6 The following sensitivity analysis for the UK scheme shows the estimated impact on the obligation resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 48m Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 41m Rate of pension increases Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 43m Mortality Increase in life expectancy by one year Increase by 86m Due to the asset-liability matching investment strategy, the above impacts on the obligations of changes in discount rate and price inflation would be significantly offset by movements in the fair value of the scheme assets.
28 Share capital Number of ordinary Ordinary shares share capital millions millions At 1 February 2015 2,350 369 New shares issued under share schemes 2 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 56 8 At 31 January 2016 2,296 361 At 2 February 2014 2,376 373 New shares issued under share schemes 3 1 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 29 5 At 31 January 2015 2,350 369 5 Ordinary shares have a par value of 15 7 pence per share.
During the year the Group purchased 56 million 2014 15: 29 million of the Companys own shares for cancellation at a cost of 200m 2014 15: 100m as part of its capital returns programme.
At 31 January 2016 the Group had an additional contractual commitment of 50m 2014 15: 50m to purchase the Companys own shares under an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Other reserves Cash flow Translation hedge  reserve reserve sale reserve Other Total At 1 February 2015 194 41 164 11 Currency translation differences Group 1 1 Joint ventures and associates 3 3 Transferred to income statement 7 7 Cash flow hedges Fair value gains 24 24 Gains transferred to inventories 50 50 Available-for-sale financial assets Fair value gains 2 2 Tax on items that may be reclassified 2 10 8 Other comprehensive income for the year 11 16 2 25 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 8 8 At 31 January 2016 205 25 2 172 6 At 2 February 2014 112 5 159 266 Currency translation differences Group 309 309 Joint ventures and associates 2 2 Cash flow hedges Fair value gains 70 70 Gains transferred to inventories 5 5 Tax on items that may be reclassified 5 19 14 Other comprehensive income for the year 306 46 260 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 5 5 At 31 January 2015 194 41 164 11 The other category of reserve represents the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993, the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty in 1993 and the capital redemption reserve.
30 Share-based payments 2015 16 2014 15 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Options price Options price Number Number Outstanding at beginning of year 26,577,857 1.05 38,123,624 0.61 1 2 Granted during the year 11,760,622 0.91 13,371,999 1.09 Forfeited during the year 4,076,225 0.95 14,117,788 0.27 Exercised during the year 7,729,839 0.61 10,799,978 0.57 Outstanding at end of year 26,532,415 1.13 26,577,857 1.05 Exercisable at end of year 1,600,718 0.57 1,557,515 0.87 1 The charge to the income statement for the years ended 31 January 2016 and 31 January 2015 in respect of share-based payments includes the first years charge of the 2016 Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan KISP Deferred Bonus Award and 2015 Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan KISP Deferred Bonus Award grants respectively, based on the cash bonus for the year.
Since grants under the KISP Deferred Bonus Award are made following the year end to which the first year of charge relates, it is not possible to give the number of options granted until after the year end.
2 The weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year represents a blend of nil price KISS, KISP, Kingfisher Performance Share Plan PSP and discounted Sharesave options see below.
124 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 124 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Information on the share schemes is given in note 15 of the Companys separate financial statements.
Options have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, rather than at the date of exercise, is 3.54 2014 15: 3.49.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices ranging from nil to 3.15 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.2 years 2014 15: 3.6 years.
The Group recognised a total expense of 11m in the year ended 31 January 2016 2014 15: 11m relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of share options and deferred shares is determined by independent valuers using Black-Scholes and stochastic option pricing models.
2 Expected life is disclosed based on the UK schemes.
For the KISP, KISS and PSP schemes in the UK, the expiry date is seven years from the date of grant.
Expiry of overseas KISS schemes is six months from the date of vesting.
Expiry of overseas KISP Long Term Incentive Award schemes is one year from the date of vesting.
3 Expected volatility was determined for each individual award, by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price plus reinvested dividends immediately prior to the grant of the award, over the same period as the vesting period of each award, adjusted by expectations of future volatility.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31 Cash generated by operations millions 2015 16 2014 15 Operating profit 526 652 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 3 5 Depreciation and amortisation 240 262 Impairment losses 55 30 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property, property held for sale and intangible assets 3 20 Profit on disposal of B&Q China 143 Profit on disposal of property and other companies 13 Share-based compensation charge 11 11 Decrease increase in inventories 56 150 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 36 12 Increase in trade and other payables 27 53 Movement in provisions 233 6 Movement in post-employment benefits 25 33 Cash generated by operations 931 806 32 Net cash millions 2015 16 2014 15 Cash and cash equivalents 730 561 Bank overdrafts 76 91 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 654 470 Short-term deposits 70 48 Bank loans 10 11 Fixed term debt 185 183 Financing derivatives 63 57 Finance leases 46 52 Net cash 546 329 millions 2015 16 2014 15 Net cash at beginning of year 329 238 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, including amounts classified as held for sale 127 55 Increase in short-term deposits 22 48 Repayment of bank loans 1 2 Repayment of fixed term debt 73 Payment on financing derivatives 9 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 13 14 Cash flow movement in net cash 163 201 Adjustment for cash classified as held for sale B&Q China 57 57 Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 3 53 Net cash at end of year 546 329 126 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 126 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 33 Disposals On 30 April 2015 Wumei Holdings Inc acquired a controlling 70% stake in the B&Q China business from the Group for a gross cash consideration of 140m, and a 12m deposit received in the prior year was repaid.
As part of the terms of the transaction, Kingfisher had the option from 1 May 2017, or sooner where agreed by both parties, to require Wumei Holdings Inc to acquire the Groups remaining 30% interest for a fixed price of the Sterling equivalent of RMB 582m 62m at 31 January 2016.
This option was exercised on 23 March 2016.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and, if approved, is expected to close later this year.
The profit on disposal of the Groups controlling 70% stake in B&Q China of 143m is analysed as follows: millions Proceeds net of disposal costs paid of 6m 134 Cash disposed 32 Net disposal proceeds received 102 Fair value at date of disposal of 30% interest retained 60 162 Net assets disposed excluding cash see below 32 Non-controlling interests disposed 10 Currency translation gains transferred from translation reserve 3 Exceptional profit on disposal 143 millions Property, plant and equipment 150 Inventories, trade and other receivables payables 108 Provisions 3 Deferred tax liabilities 9 Other net assets 2 Net assets disposed excluding cash 32 The Group did not have the ability to exert significant influence on the B&Q China operations, for example, as part of the terms agreed with Wumei Holdings Inc, the Group did not have the right to appoint directors to the board.
The remaining 30% B&Q China investment has therefore been classified as a financial asset and not as an associate, with no share of B&Q Chinas results being recognised in the income statement after the disposal date.
Included within the profit on disposal is a gain of 44m attributable to measuring this retained 30% investment at fair value.
The B&Q China business had been classified as a disposal group held for sale from 22 December 2014 the date of announcement of the transaction agreement up to the 30 April 2015 disposal date.
Accordingly, depreciation of 4m was not charged with respect to B&Q China during the year.
In April 2015 the Group completed the sale of a property company for proceeds of 18m and a profit of 16m.
At disposal, the freehold properties had a net book value of 6m and 4m of currency translation gains were transferred from the translation reserve.
In January 2016 the Group completed the sale of a UK company for proceeds of nil and a loss of 3m.
At disposal, the company had goodwill of 2m and other intangible assets of 1m.
In the prior year the Group received proceeds of 236m 198m following the sale of its 21% stake in Hornbach in March 2014. www.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 Assets and liabilities held for sale millions 2015 16 2014 15 Assets held for sale 6 274 Liabilities held for sale 195 6 79 At 31 January 2016 assets held for sale comprise 6m of freehold properties in the UK.
In the prior year, assets and liabilities held for sale included a property company and the assets and liabilities of B&Q China.
The property company and a controlling 70% stake in the B&Q China business were disposed in the current year see note 33.
35 Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group is a lessee of various retail stores, offices, warehouses and plant and equipment under lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group is also a lessor and sub-lessor of space with freehold and leasehold properties respectively.
Lease arrangements under which rental payments are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for the Group.
There are no corporate restrictions imposed by lease arrangements such as those concerning dividends, additional debt and further leasing.
Undiscounted total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2015 16 2014 15 Less than one year 416 409 One to five years 1,366 1,406 More than five years 1,726 1,933 3,508 3,748 Undiscounted total future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2015 16 2014 15 Less than one year 13 15 One to five years 38 41 More than five years 39 48 90 104 The total of future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received is 70m 2014 15: 73m.
Capital commitments Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group amount to 46m 2014 15: 57m.
128 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 128 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements 36 Contingent liabilities The Group has arranged for certain guarantees to be provided to third parties in the ordinary course of business.
Of these guarantees, only 1m 2014 15: 1m would crystallise due to possible future events not wholly within the Groups control.
The Group is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
37 Related party transactions During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and on an arms length basis.
The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value are shown below: 2015 16 2014 15 Income Receivable millions Income Receivable expense payable Transactions with Kota Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. in which the Group holds a 50% interest Provision of employee services 0.1 0.1 Commission and other income 1.2 0.1 1.2 0.2 Transactions with Crealfi S. A. in which the Group holds a 49% interest Provision of employee services 0.1 0.1 Commission and other income 5.7 0.3 6.6 1.5 Transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme Provision of administrative services 1.2 0.1 1.3 0.4 Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis.
Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in force with non-related parties.
The remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 8.
Other transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme are detailed in note 27.
38 Post balance sheet events On 23 March 2016 Kingfisher exercised its option to dispose of its 30% interest in the B&Q China business to Wumei Holdings Inc refer to note 33 for further details.
