Financial Statements Payment methods Document viewing Shareholders can elect to receive their dividends in a number of ways: Shareholders will have the opportunity to view certain documentation, as outlined in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, from at least Cheque: Dividends will automatically be paid to shareholders 15 minutes prior to the meeting, until its conclusion.
The rules of the by cheque, which will be sent by post to the shareholders Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan, the proposed Kingfisher Alignment registered address: Shares and Transformation Incentive Plan, the Articles of Association BACS: Dividends can be paid by mandate directly to a UK of the Company and other documentation referred to in this Annual bank or building society account through the BACS system.
Report can be viewed at the registered office during normal This method of payment reduces the risk of your cheque being business hours.
intercepted or lost in the post.
Shareholders wishing to receive their dividends in this way can update their mandate instructions Company Secretary and Registered Office at www.
co. uk or complete a dividend mandate form and return it to the Registrars: Clare Wardle Kingfisher plc Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP : The Company also offers 3 Sheldon Square shareholders a DRIP, whereby their cash dividend can be used Paddington to buy additional shares in the Company.
Shareholders can apply London W2 6PX online at www.
co. uk or complete a mandate form and return it to the address shown above: and Telephone: 44 0 20 7372 8008 Global Payments Service: This service, provided by the Registrar Fax: 44 0 20 7644 1001 enables shareholders to have dividend payments paid directly into www.
com their bank account in their chosen local currency.
To view terms and Registered in England and Wales register, please visit www.
Registered Number 01664812 American Depositary Receipt ADR Forward-looking statements The Company has a Sponsored Level 1 ADR programme in the United All statements in this Annual Report and Accounts, other than States, which trades on the OTCQX Platform.
Each ADR represents historical facts, may be forward-looking statements.
Such statements two Kingfisher ordinary shares.
The Companys ADR Programme is are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties that administered by Citibank, N. A. who were appointed 1 October 2015. could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed ADR Investor Contact: or implied because they relate to future events.
Telephone: 1 877 248 4237 Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of relevant E-mail: citibank@shareholders-online.
com terminology including the words: believes, estimates, anticipates, ADR Broker Contact: expects, intends, plans, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, Telephone: 1 212 723 5435 44 0 20 7500 2030 could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations E-mail: citiadr@citi.
com or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and Accounts and include statements regarding our Electronic communication intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our officers, Shareholders who have not yet elected to receive shareholder directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our documentation in electronic form can sign up by visiting results of operations, financial condition, changes in tax rates, liquidity, www.
co. uk ecomms and registering their details.
prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
When registering for electronic communications, shareholders Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from will be sent an email each time the Company publishes statutory those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, but are not documents, providing a link to the information.
limited to, global economic business conditions, monetary and interest Electing for electronic communications does not mean that rate policies, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and property shareholders cannot obtain hard copy documents.
Should prices, the impact of competition, inflation and deflation, changes to shareholders require a paper copy of any of the Companys regulations, taxes and legislation, changes to consumer saving and shareholder documentation, they should contact the Registrar spending habits: and our success in managing these factors.
at the address stated under the section headed Registrar.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations Corporate website set out in our forward-looking statements.
Reliance should not be Shareholders are encouraged to visit Kingfishers corporate website placed on any forward-looking statement.
Nothing in this Annual www.
The website includes information about the Report and Accounts or the Kingfisher website should be construed Company, its strategy and business performance, latest news and as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of Kingfisher.
press releases and approach to corporate governance.
The Investor The forward-looking statements contained herein speak only as Relations section is a key tool for shareholders, with information about of the date of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no Kingfishers share price, financial results, shareholders meetings and obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether dividends.
This section also contains frequently asked questions and as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than copies of the current and past annual reports.
in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under Kingfisher has an Investor Relations app for the iPad.
The app provides the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of access to the latest share price information, corporate news, financial the Financial Conduct Authority.
reports, presentations, corporate videos and earnings webcasts both online and offline.
It is updated with the latest financial information at the same time as the corporate website.
To discover more, download it free from the App store.
