Financial statements Shareholder information any other shareholder communications.
Instead you will receive an 2017 Financial calendar email advising you when and how to access documents online.
Record date for 2016 final dividend 7 April 2017 Annual General Meeting 4 May 2017 Share dealing service Payment date for 2016 final dividend 18 May 2017 A share dealing service for Ladbrokes Corals shares is available Announcement of half-year results and through The Share Centre Ltd, a member of the London Stock 2017 interim dividend 4 August 2017 Exchange, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Record date for 2017 interim dividend 22 September 2017 Conduct Authority.
For further details, please contact: The Share Payment date for 2017 interim dividend 9 November 2017 Centre, PO Box 2000, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8PB: Telephone: Provisional date.
Dividends American depositary receipts ADRs Ladbrokes Coral has a sponsored level 1 ADR programme for which Currently there is an annual 5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas acts as depositary.
income across an individuals entire share portfolio which replaced The ADRs are traded on the Over the Counter market in the US dividend tax credits in April 2016.
In the 2017 budget, this allowance under the symbol LDCOY, where one ADR is equal to one ordinary was reduced to 2,000 with effect from April 2018.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the depositary amount, individuals will pay tax on their dividend income at a rate makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars to ADR holders.
dependent on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
The Company provides shareholders with confirmation of the UK tax on capital gains dividends paid to them and this should be included with any other Information for UK capital gains tax purposes, which includes details dividend income received when calculating and reporting total of rights and capitalisation issues which haveoccurred since dividend income received.
It is the shareholders responsibility to 31March 1982, is available at www.
include all dividend income when calculating any tax liability.
Shareholders: Details of dividends paid in the past can be found on the Companys For queries regarding your shareholding, please contact website at www.
ourRegistrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC: Direct credit of dividend payments By telephone: 44 0 370 702 0127 Ladbrokes Coral is keen to encourage all its shareholders to have their dividends paid directly into their bank or building society account.
co. uk If you want your dividends to be paid directly into your UK account, Online: www.
co. uk you should apply online at www.
co. uk or contact our In writing: Computershare Investor Services PLC, Registrar for a dividend mandate form.
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ The overseas global dividend service provided by our Registrar ADR holders: enables shareholders living overseas to have their dividend paid Registered ADR holders should contact the Ladbrokes Coral directly into their bank account for a fee.
For further details please ADR shareholder services line: visit www.
co. uk faq and select the Dividends and Payments tab followed by Global Payment Service.
By telephone: 1 866 249 2593 Dividend reinvestment plan Online: www.
com The Company provides a dividend reinvestment plan, which enables shareholders to apply all of their cash dividends to buy additional Be on your guard beware of fraudsters shares in Ladbrokes Coral.
For more information and a mandate to The Company is aware of shareholders receiving unsolicited calls join the plan, visit www.
co. uk or contact our Registrar.
or correspondence concerning investment matters.
Calls are typically from people stating they are brokers based overseas Manage your shareholding online and they offer to buy the individuals shares at inflated prices You can view and manage your shareholding online by registering claiming that there is a secret takeover ormerger.
Shareholders for an online account with our Registrar.
This service allows you to are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to sell view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of your or buy their shares or offers of free company reports.
Operations shares, check your dividend payments, vote online, change your to buy shares at inflated prices or to sell what often turn out to be address, update payment instructions and receive your shareholder worthless, high risk or even non-existent shares are commonly communications electronically.
To register for an account, visit known as boiler room scams.
co. uk and click on the register tab.
To set up an More detailed information on boiler room scams is available account you will need your Shareholder Reference Number which at www.
If you think you can be found on your Proxy Form and postcode.
have been contacted by share fraudsters, you can report Shareholders are encouraged to be notified by email when your thematter to the Financial Conduct Authority by calling communications are available online.
By providing your email 44 0 800 111 6768 or by completing the online form available address you will no longer receive paper copies of annual reports or at www.
