01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 89.
Group Structure JLIF has invested in its current Portfolio and will continue to invest in further infrastructure investments indirectly via a series of holding entities, as follows: The Company invests in equity and profit participation instruments of JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. Luxco 1, a socit responsabilit limite S.. r. l. established in Luxembourg, which in turn invests in equity and debt of a similar entity, JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l. Luxco 2.
Both Luxco 1 and Luxco 2 together the Luxcos are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company direct and indirect respectively, with Luxco 2 being wholly owned by Luxco 1.
Luxco 2 is the sole limited partner in the Partnership, an English limited partnership which has a special purpose vehicle as its general partner, JLIF GP Limited the General Partner.
The General Partner is a wholly owned subsidiary of Luxco 1.
The General Partner, on behalf of the Partnership, has appointed JLCM as Operator of the Partnership.
Luxco 2 primarily invests the contributions it receives from Luxco 1 in capital contributions and partner loans to the Partnership, which acquires and holds infrastructure investments directly or indirectly through intermediate wholly owned companies and or other entities.
The Companys infrastructure investments are registered in the name of the General Partner, the Partnership, subsidiaries of the Partnership or their respective nominees.
Investors Guernsey Investment Advisory John Laing JLIF Limited Listed Company Guernsey Agreement Capital Management Ltd Luxembourg JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l. UK JLIF GP Ltd JLIF Limited Partnership Operator Asset Portfolio Direct Holdings Via Holding Companies Abbotsford Hospital, Canada Greater Manchester Police Stations South East London Police Stations Avon and Somerset Courts Forth Valley Royal Hospital Surrey Street Lighting Bentilee Hub Community Centre Mo D Main Building Peterborough Hospital E18 Road, Finland LUL Connect CityLink Miles Platting Social Housing Glasgow Schools King ston Hospital Barnet Street Lighting Highland Schools, Eneld M6 M74 motorway, Scotland Northampton Mental Health Kromhout Barracks, Netherlands North East Fire and Rescue Authority Bexley Schools Manchester Street Lighting Brockley Social Housing Realise Health LIFT, Colchester QEH, Greenwich Newcastle Hospital Bristol BSF South Lanarkshire Schools Canning Town Social Housing Redcar & Cleveland Street Lighting Sirhowy Way, Wales North Swindon Schools Eneld Street Lighting Vancouver General Hospital M40 Motorway Lambeth Street Lighting Wakeeld Street Lighting Eneld Schools Kelowna & Vernon Hospitals Walsall Street Lighting Camden Social Housing Leeds Combined Secondary Schools Newham Schools North Staffordshire Hospital Cleveland Police Station Peterborough Schools Edinburgh Schools North Birmingham Mental Health Unit Roseberry Park Hospital Barcelona Metro Stations L9T2 Tunbridge Wells Hospital Heritage International Fund Managers Limited is the British Transport Police PPP Met.
Specialist Police Training Centre Oldham Social Housing Administrator and Company Secretary to JLIF Limited.
Islington I Social Housing A55 Holyhead to Llandegai DBFO Islington II Social Housing Barcelona Metro Stations L9T4 All other management functions are fullled by JLCM.
Groningen Tax Ofce Intercity Express Programme Phase 1 Kirklees Social Housing Connecticut Service Stations Intertrust Luxembourg S. r. l. formerly ATC Corporate Services Luxembourg S. A is the Administrator and Company Secretary to the Luxembourg entities.
 LLP, in Luxembourg, is supplying the accounting and tax functions to those companies.
JLIF Limited Partnership has an Operator Agreement with JLCM to provide all necessary management functions.
