Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements The non-trading items have been included within the appropriate 1.
Corporate information classifications in the consolidated income statement.
Further details Ladbrokes Coral Group plc the Company is a public limited are given in note 7. company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Changes in accounting policies address of its registered office and principal place of business is From 1 January 2016 the Group has applied, for the first time, disclosed in the corporate information section of the Annual Report.
certain standards, interpretations and amendments.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended 31 December current period or any prior period and is not likely to affect future periods.
2016 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 27 March 2017.
Summary of significant The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are accounting policies set out in note 5.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 2.
Basis of preparation statements of the Group at 31 December each year.
The underlying The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting Standards IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC policies.
Control is achieved where the Company is exposed, or has pronouncements as adopted for use in the European Union and the rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
and has the ability to affect these returns through its power over The accounting policies set out in this section as detailed have been the investee.
applied consistently year on year.
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are The Group financial statements are prepared under the historical eliminated on consolidation.
cost convention unless otherwise stated.
The statements are also Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the acquisition method of prepared on a going concern basis.
accounting, from the date on which control is transferred to the The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control Sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentational is transferred from the Group.
All values are in millions m rounded to one decimal On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of place except where otherwise indicated.
a subsidiary are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Non-trading items Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the To assist in understanding its underlying performance, the Group separately identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
has defined the following items of pre-tax income and expense Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial which are non-trading as they either reflect items which are statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in exceptional in nature or size or are associated with the amortisation line with those used by the Group.
Items treated as non-trading include: Critical accounting estimates and judgements profits or losses on disposal, closure or impairment of assets or The preparation of financial information requires the use of businesses: assumptions, estimates and judgements about future conditions.
unrealised gains and losses on derivative financial instruments: Use of available information and application of judgement are corporate transaction and restructuring costs: inherent in the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future amortisation of acquired intangibles: may differ from those reported.
In this regard, management changes in the fair value of contingent consideration: and believes that the accounting policies where judgement is necessarily the related tax effect of these items.
applied are those that relate to: the measurement and impairment Any other non-recurring items are considered individually for of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets: the measurement classification as non-trading or exceptional by virtue of their nature and accounting for business combinations: the measurement of or size.
pension and other post-employment benefit obligations: income tax and the valuation of financial guarantee contracts.
The estimates The separate disclosure of these items allows a clearer and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
understanding of the trading performance on a consistent and comparable basis, together with an understanding of the effect of non-recurring or large individual transactions upon the overall profitability of the Group.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 4.
Summary of significant accounting The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other postpolicies continued employment benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
The Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, which the estimate is revised.
mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant Further information about key assumptions concerning the future uncertainty.
Further details are given in note 33. and other key sources of estimation uncertainty are set out below.
Income tax Indefinite life assets and impairment The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions.
The Group determines whether goodwill and other indefinite life assets, including licences, are impaired at least on an annual basis.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash income taxes due to uncertainty of the amount of income tax that generating units to which the goodwill and intangible assets are may be payable, and in respect of determining the level of the allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount requires management future taxable profits of the Group that support the recognition and to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Further details are given in cash generating unit and to discount cash flows at a suitable note 11. discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash Provisions in relation to uncertain tax positions are established on flows.
Further details of the judgements taken and the impairments an individual rather than portfolio basis, considering whether, in recorded in 2016 are given in notes 14 and 15. each circumstance, the Group considers it more likely than not that Useful economic life of Retail licences the uncertainty will crystallise.
During 2016 the Group reassessed the useful economic life of Financial guarantee contracts Retail licences in light of the continued decline in OTC stakes and The valuation of financial guarantee contracts and related regulatory pressures on FOBTs and revised the estimate to 15 years indemnities requires use of assumptions of the risks of default of rather than the indefinite life adopted in 2015.
This change has the guaranteed entities and the credit profiles of the been made prospectively from 1 November 2016.
Further details are given in note 27.
4.3 million of amortisation on licences was charged to the income statement within non-trading items, the charge for 2017 is A summary of other accounting policies is shown below: expected to be 32.3 million.
Investments in joint ventures Business combinations A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a The Group applies judgement in determining whether a transaction long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one is a business combination, which includes consideration as to or more other ventures under a contractual agreement.
whether the Group has acquired a business or a group of assets.
Joint control exists only when decisions about the relevant activities For business combinations, the Group estimates the fair value of require the unanimous consent of the parties that collectively the consideration transferred, which can include assumptions about control the arrangement.
In assessing this joint control no the future business performance of the business acquired and an significant judgements have been necessary.
appropriate discount rate to determine the fair value of any The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the contingent consideration.
Judgement is also applied in determining Group consolidated income statement using the equity method of whether any future payments should be classified as contingent accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Group consideration or as remuneration for future services.
consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in The Group then estimates the fair value of assets acquired and the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment in liabilities assumed in the business combination, including any value.
The carrying value of investments in joint ventures includes separately identifiable intangible assets.
These estimates also acquired goodwill.
require inputs and assumptions including future earnings, customer If the Groups share of losses in the joint venture equals or exceeds attrition rates and discount rates.
The Group engages external its investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise experts to support the valuation process, where appropriate.
further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made The fair value of contingent consideration recognised in business payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Further details are given in combinations is reassessed at each reporting date, using updated note 18. inputs and assumptions based on the latest financial forecasts for the relevant business.
Judgement is applied as to whether changes should be applied at the acquisition date or as post-acquisition changes.
Further details of these judgements are given in notes 27 and 30.
Fair value movements and the unwinding of the discounting is recognised within operating expenses.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued During the year the Group revisited the estimation of the useful 4.
Summary of significant accounting economic lives of intangible assets.
From 1 November it was policies continued determined that Retail licences have a 15 year useful economic life Investments in associates rather than an indefinite life see note 15 with the exception of Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term Italian licences which have a pre-determined life.
This change will interest and is able to exercise significant influence over the affect the current reporting period and future reporting periods.
financial and operational policies but does not have control or joint A summary of the policies applied to the Groups intangible assets is control over those policies.
as follows: The Groups share of results of associates is included in the Groups Customer Domain consolidated income statement using the equity method of Licences Software relationships Brand names accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the Groups Method 9-15 years 2-5 1-15.5 3-15 years 10 used years years or not years consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in straight line straight line depreciated straight line the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment in or revalued value.
The carrying value of investments in associates includes Internally acquired acquired acquired acquired acquired acquired goodwill.
Further details are given in note 19. generated and or acquired internally Goodwill generated Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the Impairment where an useful lives where an Annually where an excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups testing indicator of reviewed at indicator of and where indicator of interest in the net fair value of the separately identifiable assets, recoverable impairment each impairment an impairment amount exists financial exists indicator of exists liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
In testing year end or impairment accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, goodwill is not where an exists amortised but reviewed for impairment at the first reporting period indicator of after acquisition and then annually and as such, is stated at cost impairment exists less any provision for impairment of value.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement and An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, with any gain or loss is not subsequently reversed.
On acquisition, any goodwill acquired arising calculated as the difference between the net disposal is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment proceeds and the carrying amount of the item included in the testing.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and consolidated income statement in the year of disposal.
part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposal is included in the carrying amount of Property, plant and equipment the assets when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Land is stated at cost less any impairment in value.
Buildings, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation Intangible assets and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated using the Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and straight line method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual those acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised value over its useful economic life as follows: separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
The costs relating to internally generated Buildings 50 years or estimated useful life of the building, or lease, intangible assets, principally software costs, are capitalised if the whichever is less, to estimated residual value.
criteria for recognition as assets are met.
Other expenditure is Fixtures, fittings and equipment four to 10 years as considered charged in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Following appropriate to write down cost to estimated residual value.
initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment where an indicator of impairment exists as to whether The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be either there are events or changes in circumstances indicating that the finite or indefinite.
All indefinite lived assets are subject to an carrying values may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists annual impairment review from the year of acquisition.
Where and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives, this expense is amount, the assets or cash generating units are written down to taken to the consolidated income statement through the their recoverable amount.
depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off non-current assets line item.
Useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Cash and cash equivalents 4.
Summary of significant accounting Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, policies continued short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than three Property, plant and equipment continued months and customer balances.
The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater of Financial assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present the contracts that give rise to them.
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to The Group classifies financial assets at inception as loans and the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash available-for-sale financial assets.
generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated income or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
On initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at fair value net of transaction costs.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal, with any gain or loss arising calculated as the difference Trade receivables are generally accounted for at amortised cost.
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the The Group reviews indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis item included in the consolidated income statement in the year of and where such indicators exist, the Group makes an estimate of disposal.
If an asset is impaired, then a charge is recognised within the income statement.
Leases Leases that transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss comprise rewards associated with ownership of the leased item are derivative financial instruments.
Financial assets through profit or capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the loss are measured initially at fair value with transaction costs taken leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease directly to the consolidated income statement.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses are recognised in charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a the consolidated income statement.
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Available for sale financial assets comprise equity investments that Finance charges are charged directly against income.
are neither classified as held for trading nor designated at fair value Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the through profit or loss.
Available for sale financial assets are estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
measured initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the benefits and statement of comprehensive income.
risks of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments, other than contingent rentals, are Financial liabilities recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on Financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables, interest a straight line basis over the lease term.
bearing loans and borrowings, contingent consideration, ante-post bets, guarantees and derivative financial instruments.
On initial Recoverable amount of non-current assets recognition, financial liabilities are measured at fair value net of At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any transaction costs where they are not categorised as financial indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the fair value through profit or loss include contingent consideration, recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset derivative financial instruments, ante-post bets and guarantees.
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable Trade and other payables are held at amortised cost and include amount is the higher of an assets or cash generating units fair amounts due to clients representing customer deposits and value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an winnings, which is matched by an equal and opposite amount individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows within cash and cash equivalents.
that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured of assets.
initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the Inventories consolidated income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
remeasured and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the 4.
Summary of significant accounting expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet policies continued date and are discounted to present value where the effect is Financial liabilities continued material using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market All interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are finance expense.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Foreign currency translation interest rate method.
The presentation and functional currency of Ladbrokes Coral Group The Group has provided financial guarantees to third parties in plc and the functional currencies of its UK subsidiaries are Pounds respect of lease obligations of certain of the Groups former Sterling.
subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
Financial guarantee Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in Pounds contracts are classified as financial liabilities and are measured at Sterling at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the fair value by estimating the probability of the guarantees being transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign called upon and the related cash outflows from the Group.
currencies are retranslated at the foreign currency rate of exchange Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities ruling at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the flows from the assets has expired or when the Group has consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows from the measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated financial assets or has assumed an obligation to pay the received using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction the cash flows in full without material delay to a third party, and either: difference to the prevailing rate is take to other comprehensive substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been income.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign transferred: or currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date when substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained the fair value was determined with the difference to prevailing rules nor transferred but control is not retained.
taken to other comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is The main functional currencies of overseas subsidiaries are the Euro discharged, cancelled or expires.
At the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into Derivative financial instruments Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as cross sheet date and their income statements are translated at the currency swaps, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps, to average exchange rates for the year.
The post-tax exchange hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to other fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred and subsequently at fair value.
The gains or losses on cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular remeasurement are taken to the consolidated income statement.
foreign entity is recognised in the consolidated income statement Derivative financial instruments are classified as assets where their as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
fair value is positive, or as liabilities where their fair value is The following exchange rates were used in 2015 and 2016: negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same 2016 2015 counterparty, a legal right of offset exists and the parties intend to Currency Average Year end Average Year end Euro 1.25 1.17 1.37 1.36 settle the cash flows on a net basis.
Australian Dollar $ 1.86 1.71 2.03 2.03 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Income tax legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be temporary differences at the balance sheet date, between the tax required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for made of the amount of the obligation.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of 4.
Summary of significant accounting sales tax except: policies continued where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services Income tax continued is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the differences: asset or as except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial part of the expense item as applicable: and recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects included.
neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary the consolidated balance sheet.
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Groups defined benefit pension plans, the Ladbrokes Pension Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary Plan and the Gala Coral Pension Plan hold assets separately from differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax the Group.
The pension cost relating to this plan is assessed in losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using available against which the deductible temporary differences and the projected unit credit method.
carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised: Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible arise.
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business Any past service cost is recognised immediately.
The retirement combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and value of scheme assets less the value of the defined benefit in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with obligations.
investments in subsidiaries and associates, deferred tax assets In accounting for the Groups defined benefit pension plans, it is are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the necessary for management to make a number of estimates and deductible temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable assumptions each year.
These include the discount rates, future future and taxable profit will be available against which the changes to salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates and life temporary differences can be utilised.
In making these estimates and assumptions, The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each management considers advice provided by external advisers, such balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer as actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these estimates, probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Refer to note 33 for details of the values of assets and obligations and key assumptions used.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or Although the Group anticipates that plans surpluses will be utilised the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have during the life of the plans to address member benefits, the Group been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
recognises its pension surplus in full on the basis that it does not consider there to be substantive restrictions on the return of Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
residual plans assets in the event of a winding up of the plans after Interest or penalties payable and receivable in relation to income all member obligations have been met.
tax are recognised as an income tax expense or credit in the The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are consolidated income statement.
charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to Income tax relating to items recognised within other which the contributions relate.
comprehensive income and not in the consolidated income Equity instruments statement.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments that are reacquired treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued Finance expense and income 4.
Summary of significant accounting Finance expense and income arising on interest bearing financial policies continued instruments carried at amortised cost are recognised in the ESOP trusts consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate Where the Group holds its own equity shares through ESOP trusts method.
Finance expense includes the amortisation of fees that are these shares are shown as a reduction in equity.
Any consideration an integral part of the effective finance cost of a financial paid or received for the purchase or sale of these shares is shown in instrument, including issue costs, and the amortisation of any other the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and no gain differences between the amount initially recognised and the or loss is recognised within the consolidated income statement or redemption price.
All finance expenses are recognised over the the statement of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, availability period.
issue or cancellation of these shares.
Share-based payment transactions Merger reserve Certain employees including directors of the Group receive A merger reserve is recognised for the difference between fair value remuneration in the form of equity settled share-based payment swhen the following conditions are met: transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for 90% of the nominal value of each share class is acquired: shares or rights over shares equity settled transactions.
The arrangement provides for the allotment of shares in the The cost of equity settled transactions is measured by reference to issuing company: and the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
Further details The consideration for the allotted shares is the issue or transfer of which are given in note 34.
In valuing equity settled transactions, to the issuing company of equity shares in the acquired company no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than or the cancellation of those equity shares in the acquired conditions linked to the price of the shares of Ladbrokes Coral company that the issuing company does not already hold.
Dividends The cost of equity settled transactions is recognised in the Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at consolidated income statement with a corresponding credit in the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative Revenue expense recognised for equity settled transactions at each The Group reports the gains and losses on all betting and gaming reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which activities as revenue, which is measured at the fair value of the the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in consideration received or receivable from customers less free bets, the opinion of the directors of the Group at that date, based on the promotions, bonuses and other fair value adjustments.
Gross win best available estimate of the number of equity instruments, will includes free bets, promotions and bonuses.
For licensed betting offices LBOs, On Course Betting, Core No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, Telephone Betting, Mobile Betting, Digital businesses including except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market sportsbook, betting exchange, casino, games, other number bets, condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or revenue represents gains and losses, being the amounts staked not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other and fees received, less total payouts.
Open betting positions performance conditions are satisfied.
are carried at fair value and gains and losses arising on these The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional positions are recognised in revenue.
Vending income is also share dilution in the computation of earnings per share as shown in included within revenue.
Revenue from the online poker business reflects the net income The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an employee rake earned from poker games completed by the year end.
share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income executives and senior employees.
arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the year, Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as including sales of refreshments, net of VAT.
treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 111 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued This information gives a basis for users of financial statements to 4.
Summary of significant accounting assess the effect that leases have on the financial position, financial policies continued performance and cash flows of the entity.
The standard replaces Future accounting developments IAS 17 Leases and related interpretations.
The standard is effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial adoption is permitted for entities that apply IFRS 15 at or before statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these the date of initial application of IFRS 16.
The Group is assessing the standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
At this stage the effects have not been quantified, but the potential impacts are expected to be material IFRS 9, Financial instruments, which addresses the classification, given the extent of operating leases over property and equipment measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities was see note 35. issued in July 2015.
IFRS 9 retains and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair IFRS 16 is yet to be EU endorsed.
value through Other Comprehensive Income OCI and fair value There are no other IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations that are not yet through the Income Statement.
The basis of the classification effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the depends on the business model and the contractual cash flow Group.
characteristics of the financial asset.
Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through Comparative information profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present The 2015 comparative balance sheet has been represented to changes in fair value in OCI not recycling.
There is now a new disclose inventory as a separate item.
Previously inventory had expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss been included within trade and other receivables 1.2 million.
impairment model used in IAS 39.
For financial liabilities there were Antepost liabilities previously disclosed within other creditors have no changes to classification and measurement except for the also been represented to other financial liabilities 5.3 million.
recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive The 2015 consolidated income statement has been represented to income, for liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
disclose separately cost of sales, gross profit and operating costs.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or Secondly amortisation of acquired intangibles has been presented after 1 January 2018.
The Group is as a non-trading item 5.2 million.
assessing the impact of IFRS 9.
At this stage the impact is expected to be limited.
Finally operating segments have been represented to reflect the new reporting and management structure in the combined Group.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful The above changes have no impact on the reported profit for information to users of financial statements about the nature, the year ended 31 December 2015 or the financial position at amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising that date.
from an entity's contracts with customers.
IFRS 15 will only impact revenue that is it not governed by IAS 39.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and earlier adoption is permitted.
The Group has determined that the impact of IFRS 15 will be limited.
IFRS 16, Leases sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
The objective is to ensure that lessees and lessors provide relevant information in a manner that faithfully represents those transactions.
IFRS 16 now requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use asset for virtually all lease contracts.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 5.
Segment information The Groups operating segments are based on the reports reviewed by the Executive management team who are collectively considered to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to make strategic decisions, and allocate resources.
Following the acquisition of the Coral Group, the reportable segments have been reassessed and measured according to the nature of the services provided.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used by the CODM for assessing performance and allocating resources, and the Groups operating segments are now aggregated into the five reportable segments as detailed below: UK Retail: comprises betting activities in the shop estate in Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
UK divested includes the results of the shops that had to be sold in accordance with the findings of the Competition and Market Authority on the merger.
UK underlying is the results of all other shops: European Retail: comprises all activities connected with the Republic of Ireland, Belgium, Italy and Spain JV shop estates: Digital: comprises betting and gaming activities from online and mobile operations which includes Ladbrokes.
it, Belgium online and Spain JV online: All other segments: comprises activities primarily related to telephones excluding High Rollers, Stadia, Betdaq and on course pitches: and Corporate: includes costs associated with Group functions including Group executive, legal, Group finance, tax and treasury.
During the year the Group discontinued its High Rollers segment reflecting the Groups intention to focus on its recreational customer base going forwards.
The Executive management team continues to assess the performance of operating segments based on a measure of net revenue, EBITDA, operating profit, profit before tax and net finance expenses.
This measurement basis excludes the effect of non-trading items income or expenditure from the operating segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
UK Retail UK Retail UK Retail European Digital All other Corporate Total Group underlying divested Total Retail segments 2016 m m m m m m m m Revenue 901.9 69.7 971.6 123.2 383.5 29.6 1,507.9 Gross profit 657.8 50.2 708.0 78.9 266.2 23.2 1,076.3 Operating costs 511.0 35.3 546.3 58.6 227.3 22.2 23.0 877.4 EBITDA before non-trading items 146.8 14.9 161.7 20.3 38.9 1.0 23.0 198.9 Depreciation and Amortisation 41.6 2.0 43.6 7.5 30.0 1.9 0.8 83.8 Share of joint ventures and associates 4.0 2.2 4.3 6.1 Profit loss before non-trading items 105.2 12.9 118.1 16.8 6.7 3.4 23.8 121.2 Non-trading items 97.3 6.5 103.8 24.5 137.5 7.5 50.3 323.6 Profit loss before tax and net finance expenses 7.9 6.4 14.3 7.7 130.8 4.1 74.1 202.4 Net finance expenses 10.9 Loss before tax 213.3 Income tax 9.0 Loss for the year from continuing operations 204.3 Profit for the year from discontinued operations after tax Loss for the year after discontinued operations 204.3 LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 113 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Segment information continued UK Retail UK Retail UK Retail European Digital All other Corporate Total Group underlying divested Total Retail segments 2015 m m m m m m m m Revenue 786.5 60.6 847.1 93.0 229.5 25.9 1,195.5 Gross profit 581.5 44.9 626.4 66.1 161.3 20.3 874.1 Operating costs 438.7 31.0 469.7 54.1 155.2 20.8 20.3 720.1 EBITDA before non-trading items 142.8 13.9 156.7 12.0 6.1 0.5 20.3 154.0 Depreciation and Amortisation 36.1 2.2 38.3 5.9 25.3 1.9 0.8 72.2 Share of joint ventures and associates 0.9 0.9 4.0 4.0 Profit loss before non-trading items 106.7 11.7 118.4 7.0 20.1 1.6 21.1 85.8 Non-trading items 65.1 65.1 11.9 7.6 1.9 18.0 104.5 Profit loss before tax and net finance expenses 41.6 11.7 53.3 4.9 27.7 0.3 39.1 18.7 Net finance expenses 27.8 Loss before tax 46.5 Income tax 48.5 Profit for the year from continuing operations 2.0 Profit for the year from discontinued operations after tax 3.1 Profit for the year after discontinued operations 5.1 Geographical information Revenue by destination and non-current assets on a geographical basis for the Group, are as follows: 2016 2015 Non-current Non-current 1 1 Revenue assets Revenue assets m m m m United Kingdom 1,213.0 1,122.0 1,030.4 716.7 Rest of the World 294.9 1,812.6 165.1 179.7 Total 1,507.9 2,934.6 1,195.5 896.4 1 Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets.
Discontinued operations The results of discontinued operations comprise the High Roller division which the Group ceased to operate in 2016: 2016 2015 m m Revenue 4.0 Operating expenses 0.7 Operating result profit before taxation 3.3 Income tax 0.2 Result profit from discontinued operations 3.1 Net cash flows of nil 2015: 3.1 million have all arisen from operating activities.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 7.
Non-trading items 2016 2015 m m 1 Impairment loss 194.9 71.4 2 Integration costs 46.8 3 Settlement of fair value adjustment to contingent consideration 42.7 0.2 4 Corporate transaction costs 22.5 17.6 5 Net loss on disposal of divested shops 6.5 6 Legal and onerous contract provisions 4.9 9.8 7 Indirect tax settlement 17.8 3.5 Examinership costs 3.8 8 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 23.1 5.2 Operating non-trading costs 323.6 104.5 9 Non-trading interest 21.6 0.3 Total before tax 302.0 104.2 10 Tax on non-trading items 20.6 13.3 Non-trading items after taxation 281.4 90.9 1 The impairment and write off of 194.9 million comprises 111.6 million arising as part of the annual impairment review, 76.8 million of assets which will no longer be used or not supported by their underlying cash flows, largely as a result of the merger see note 15 for more details and comprises 91.4 million of licences, 44.7 million of software, 24.8 million of customer relationships, brand and domain names, 27.5 million of property, plant and equipment and a 6.5 million write off of other assets.
2 Costs associated with the integration of the Ladbrokes and Coral businesses, including a proportion of redundancy costs expected to arise from the merger.
3 The Group settled contingent consideration with Playtech at an additional cost of 43.4 million versus the liability held at the end of 2015.
The fair value of contingent consideration with Betdaq has been reassessed resulting in a net credit of 0.7 million note 27.
4 The Group incurred 22.5 million of corporate transaction costs in relation to the merger.
5 Following approval of the merger by the Competition and Markets Authority the Group was required to divest 360 shops across the UK Retail estate.
A 6.5 million loss was incurred on the disposal of the 186 Ladbrokes branded shops.
The loss on disposal of Coral branded shops arose pre acquisition note 17.
6 Legal and onerous contract provisions include onerous contracts that have arisen as a result of the closure of shops and other legal provisions outside the ordinary course of business.
7 The Group has agreed a settlement of a historical VAT claim with HMRC.
8 During the current year the Group incurred 23.1 million of amortisation charges in relation to acquired intangible assets primarily arising from the acquisition of Coral note 4.
9 Non-trading interest includes interest income from HMRC on an Indirect tax settlement 27.5 million partly offset by interest incurred on a bridging loan facility 5.9 million required for the merger.
10 The tax effect of non-trading items of 20.6 million only represents 6.8% of the 2016 charge as the impairment charge on certain assets, corporate transaction costs including the Playtech settlement and elements of integration costs are not deductible for tax purposes or have been incurred within loss making subsidiaries.
Operating expenses Profit before tax, net finance expense and non-trading items has been arrived at after charging: 2016 2015 m m Betting tax and Machine Games Duty 293.1 224.7 Revenue based payments 115.2 68.7 Other cost of sales 23.3 28.0 Cost of sales 431.6 321.4 Salaries and payroll-related expenses note 10 351.5 284.3 Property expenses 142.5 129.2 Content and levy expenses 118.9 112.5 Marketing expenses 138.8 91.3 Depreciation and amortisation 83.8 72.2 Other operating expenses 125.7 102.8 Operating expenses 961.2 792.3 Impairment loss 194.9 71.4 1 Integration costs 31.1 Redundancy 15.7 Other 81.9 33.1 Non-trading operating expenses 323.6 104.5 1 Integration costs includes people and contractor costs of 4.5 million.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 115 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Operating expenses continued Fees payable to  LLP were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Audit and audit-related services: Audit of the parent Company and Group financial statements 0.6 0.4 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.2 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.7 Non-audit services: Tax advisory services 0.1 1 Corporate finance services 1.1 1.6 Other non audit services 0.1 0.3 1.2 2.0 Total fees 2.2 2.7 1 Fees for corporate finance services relate to due diligence and public reporting arising from PwCs role as reporting accountants for the Prospectus in 2016 and the circular in 2015 relating to the acquisition of the Coral Group.
Finance expense and income 2016 2015 m m Bank loans and overdrafts 2.5 1.4 Bonds at amortised cost 26.2 23.1 Finance charges payable under finance leases 0.1 0.2 Fee expenses 4.8 3.5 Total finance expense 33.6 28.2 Interest receivable 1.1 0.1 Total finance income 1.1 0.1 Net finance expense before non-trading items 32.5 28.1 Non-trading finance expense note 7 5.9 0.1 Non-trading finance income note 7 27.5 0.4 Net finance expense after non-trading items 10.9 27.8 10.
Staff costs The average weekly number of employees including executive directors was: 2016 2015 Number Number UK Retail 14,281 12,055 European Retail 918 924 Digital 933 672 Central Services 90 100 Other 463 480 16,685 14,231 The number of people employed by the Group at 31 December 2016 was 26,141 2015: 14,340.
Group staff costs were: 2016 2015 m m Wages and salaries 317.3 256.3 1 Redundancy costs 15.7 Social security costs 24.0 20.1 Pension costs note 33 4.4 3.8 Share-based payments note 34 5.8 4.1 367.2 284.3 1 Redundancy costs are included in integration costs within non-trading items.
In addition to salary, employees may qualify for various benefit schemes operated by the Group.
Eligibility for benefits is normally determined according to an employees length of service and level of responsibility.
The amounts of some benefits are proportionate to individual salary.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 10.
Staff costs continued Benefits may include paid leave for holidays, maternity and illness, as well as insured benefits.
The latter can cover private healthcare for the employee and their immediate family, long-term disability, personal accident and death in service cover.
Company cars, including fuel benefits, are provided predominantly to meet job requirements but also to certain executives.
The principal benefit schemes are: i Pensions Ladbrokes Pension Scheme LPS Under the auto-enrolment legislation, employees meeting the statutory eligibility requirements are automatically enrolled in the LPS, a defined contribution scheme.
The contributions paid by the Group and employees meet those statutorily required.
Subject to meeting certain eligibility and employment grade criteria, employees can choose for the Group to match their contributions up to specified limits.
For the majority of employees the maximum match is 6% of base salary.
The maximum match is higher for some employees, depending upon grade and pensionable service.
Ladbrokes Pension Plan LPP This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007 and closed to benefit build up from 31 August 2015, at which date all active members were offered membership of the LPS.
Members contributed on average 6% of pensionable salary per annum executives contributed on average 7% of pensionable salary per annum.
Calculated to 31 August 2015, members and Executive Section members received deferred pension benefits including contingent death benefits under the LPP based on their service, accrual rates and Final Pensionable Salary linked to their pension histories.
Benefits generally accrue to provide a target pension of half for joiners before June 2002: two thirds of final pensionable salary for an employee attaining age 65 with at least 40 years membership.
A spouses pension is payable following death.
See note 33 for further details.
Gala Coral Pension Scheme GCPS Similarly, employees meeting the auto-enrolment statutory eligibility requirements are automatically enrolled in the GCPS, a defined contribution scheme.
Subject to meeting certain eligibility and employment grade criteria, employees can choose for the Group to make contributions up to specified limits.
For the majority of employees the maximum Group contribution is 6% of base salary.
Gala Coral Pension Plan GCPP This was closed to further benefit build up from 28 September 2013, at which date all active members were offered membership of GCPS.
LPP Executive Section Members contribute on average 7% of pensionable salary per annum.
Benefit accrued to provide a target pension from all sources of two thirds of final pensionable salary for an executive attaining age 65 with at least 26.7 years membership for joiners before June 2002, employees attaining age 60 with at least 20 years service.
A spouses and childrens pensions are payable following death.
LPP incorporated an Earnings Cap on Pensionable Salary.
Executive directors and senior executives, for whom this applies, had a choice between: i membership of the Executive Section of the LPP plus a cash supplement of up to 22.5% of base salary in excess of the Earnings Cap: or ii a cash supplement of up to 22.5% of base salary in lieu of membership of the LPP.
ii Share-based payments Details of employee share schemes operated by the Group are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 86 that forms part of the Annual Report 2016.
Details of options granted in 2016 and outstanding at 31 December 2016 are shown in note 34.
Details of directors remuneration can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 86.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Income tax expense Analysis of credit charge for the year: 2016 2015 m m Current income tax: UK 19.8 0.9 overseas 2.7 0.5 adjustments in respect of previous years 1.7 35.6 Deferred tax: relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 19.5 5.5 tax rate reduction adjustments in respect of previous years 10.3 7.0 Income tax credit reported in the income statement 9.0 48.5 Deferred tax charged directly to other comprehensive income 2.5 0.6 A reconciliation of income tax credit applicable to loss before tax at the UK statutory income tax rate to the income tax credit for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Loss before tax 213.3 46.5 Corporation tax credit thereon at 20% 2015: 20.25% 42.7 9.4 Adjusted for the effects of: Lower effective tax rates on overseas earnings 3.7 8.3 Recognition of tax losses 8.1 Non-deductible expenses 3.0 3.7 Impairment loss 19.2 1.7 Amortisation 1.3 Corporate transaction costs 5.4 3.6 Integration costs 4.4 Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration 8.5 Other non-trading items 1.0 1.5 Tax rate reduction 1.9 7.0 Other 1.0 0.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years: Resolution of historical tax matters and utilisation of previously unrecognised losses against profits of previous years 29.3 Adjustment of deferred tax in respect of previous years 3.5 7.0 Overseas current tax adjustments 2.7 4.3 Overseas recognition of losses 4.8 Reassesment of retirement benefit asset surplus 10.2 Recognition of tax losses 12.5 Other prior year movements 1.4 2.0 Income tax credit 9.0 48.5 Reported as: expense credit in consolidated income statement before non-trading items 11.6 35.2 credit in consolidated income statement tax on non-trading items note 7 20.6 13.3 Income tax credit 9.0 48.5 A tax charge of nil 2015:0.2 million was recorded in relation to discontinued operations.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 11.
Income tax expense continued Deferred tax Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated Consolidated balance sheet income statement 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 0.7 0.4 0.1 Licences 29.2 47.4 18.5 13.7 Goodwilll 0.7 Software 1.1 Customer relationships, brand and domain names 182.2 6.6 7.2 2.4 Retirement benefit assets 46.1 13.7 11.6 0.7 Deferred tax liabilities 260.0 68.1 Deferred tax assets Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 24.0 10.2 1.8 6.5 Losses 56.5 3.6 13.8 10.0 Share-based payments 1.4 1.2 0.2 1.2 Other temporary differences 2.3 1.1 0.5 Deferred tax assets 84.2 16.1 Deferred tax credit 29.9 12.5 Amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet: Deferred tax liabilities 184.2 52.7 Deferred tax assets 8.4 0.7 Net deferred tax liability 175.8 52.0 The net deferred tax liability movement of 123.8 million in the year, arises from 152.6 million on acquisition fair value adjustments, 2.5 million charged to other comprehensive income, less credits of 29.9 million and 1.4 million, shown in the consolidated income statement and foreign exchange currency reserve, respectively.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had 57.4 million 2015: 33.6 million of unrecognised deferred tax assets, relating to losses, the utilisation of which is not likely at the current time.
This is because the losses are within loss making holding companies which are not anticipated to make future profits.
There are no significant taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries.
The Group has a number of historical unresolved UK tax matters, in respect of which all amounts are fully provided and all taxes have been paid.
No significant changes are expected to the status of the above matters in the next financial year.
A deferred tax asset of 56.5 million has been recognised in respect of losses where these arise in entities which are expected to generate taxable profits.
In the Budget on 16 March 2016, the Chancellor announced that the standard rate of UK Corporation Tax will be reduced from 1 April 2020 to 17%.
In addition, he announced that the planned reductions in rates would be delayed and amended so that the standard rate of UK Corporation Tax will be reduced from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017, with a further reduction to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date with exception of the liability in respect of retirement benefit assets are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 17%.
Although the reduction to 17% is effective from 1 April 2020, this was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
Deferred tax on retirement benefit assets is provided at 35% 2015 provided at prevailing tax rates, following a reassessment of the rate likely to apply to a refund.
The impact of this change was 13.0 million.
Dividends 2016 2015 Pence per share pence pence Interim dividend paid 1.0 1.0 Final dividend proposed 2.0 2.0 3.0 3.0 A final dividend of 2.0 pence 2015: 2.0 pence per share, amounting to 38.2 million 2015: 20.2 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 was proposed by the directors on 27 March 2017.
The total amount payable in respect of the final dividend is based on the expected number of shares in issue on 27 March 2017.
The 2016 interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share 10.2 million was paid on 10 November 2016.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 119 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the loss for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company of 204.3 million 2015: 5.1 million profit by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 1,167.8 million 2015: 966.4 million.
1 At 31 December 2016, there were 1,914.4 million 28 3 pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 1,946.2 million including 1 3 treasury shares.
At 31 December 2015, there were 1,018.3 million 28 pence ordinary shares were in issue excluding treasury shares 1,050.0 million including treasury shares.
Given the loss for the year, the Group has recognised a basic loss per share rather than a basic earnings per share.
As such, the dilutive effects have not been considered in calculating the basic loss.
At 31 December 2015, 5.8 million shares were deemed dilutive for the purpose of calculating earnings per share.
The calculation of adjusted earnings per share before non-trading items is included as it provides a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Non-trading items are defined in note 2 and disclosed in note 7.
The Group has revised its presentation of trading items as set out in note 4 to exclude the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
The 2015 results and Adjusted EPS have been represented to a consistent basis.
In addition 2015 has been represented for the treatment of High Rollers as Discontinued following the decision to cease this business in 2016.
Basic EPS disclosed in the prior year was 9.4 pence and diluted EPS was 9.3 pence.
Weighted average number of shares ms 2016 2015 Shares for basic earnings per share 1,167.8 966.4 Potentially dilutive share options and contingently issuable shares 12.0 5.8 Shares for diluted earnings per share 1,179.8 972.2 Total earnings per share 2016 2015 Total profit m m Loss profit attributable to shareholders 204.3 5.1 Non-trading items net of tax note 7 281.4 90.9 Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 77.1 96.0 Before non-trading items After non-trading items Earnings per share pence 2016 2015 2016 2015 Basic earnings per share 6.6 9.9 17.5 0.5 Diluted earnings per share 6.5 9.9 17.5 0.5 Earnings per share from continuing operations 2016 2015 Profit from continuing operations m m Loss profit attributable to shareholders 204.3 2.0 Non-trading items net of tax note 7 281.4 90.9 Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 77.1 92.9 Before non-trading items After non-trading items Earnings per share pence from continuing operations 2016 2015 2016 2015 Basic earnings per share 6.6 9.6 17.5 0.2 Diluted earnings per share 6.5 9.6 17.5 0.2 120 ladbrokescoralplc.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 14.
Licences comprises the cost of acquired betting shop licences.
During the current year the useful economic life of licences was reassessed, as described in the accounting policies, and licences are now amortised over 15 years rather than indefinite lived assets.
This change is effective from 1 November 2016 and will affect periods from this date forwards.
Software relates to the cost of acquired software, through purchase or business combination, and the capitalisation of internally generated software.
Customer relationships, brand and domain names relate to the fair value of customer lists, brand and domain names acquired as part of business combinations, primarily relating to the Coral business.
Brand names of 906.7 million 2015: nil are assumed to have an indefinite life.
Refer to notes 7 and 15 for details of the impairment charge.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets An impairment loss is recognised for any amount by which an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Within UK and European Retail, the cash generating units are generally an individual LBO and therefore, impairment is first assessed at this level for licences and property, plant and equipment, with any impairment arising booked first to licences and then to property, plant and equipment.
In 2016 the Group changed its approach and decided no longer to exercise judgement to pair shops operating close together where cash flows were not entirely independent.
Since goodwill has not been historically allocated to individual LBOs, a secondary assessment is then made to compare the carrying value of the segment against the recoverable amount with any additional impairment then taken against goodwill.
For Digital the cash generating unit is the relevant geographical location and any impairments are made firstly to goodwill, next to any capitalised intangible asset and then finally to property, plant and equipment.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Coral Group has been assessed for impairment on a fair value less cost to sell basis by reference to its market value, established by the acquisition on 1 November 2016, and its trading performance post acquisition compared with managements expectations.
The expected cash flows generated by the assets are discounted using appropriate discount rates that reflect the time value of money and risks associated with the group of assets.
For both tangible and intangible assets, the future cash flows are based on the forecasts and budgets of the cash-generating unit or business discounted to reflect time value of money.
The key assumptions within the UK and European Retail budgets are OTC stakes customer visits and spend per visit, the average number of machines per shop, gross win per shop per week, wage increases and the fixed costs of the LBO.
The key assumptions within the budgets for Digital are the number of active customers, net revenue per head, win percentage, revenue shares and operating costs.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections for UK Retail was 10.4% 2015: 10.9%, European Retail 9.6% 2015: 9.4% and Digital 9.9% 2015: 8.5%.
The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances with reference to the WACC expected in the industry in which the Group operates.
The long term growth rate of 1% 2015: 1-2% for each period is representative of the long-term rate of GDP growth in the UK.
The carrying value of goodwill by segment is as follows: 2016 2015 Goodwill m m UK Retail 255.2 39.2 European Retail 123.9 7.8 Digital 635.5 110.2 All other segments 55.8 1,070.4 157.2 The carrying value of licences by LBO is not practical or material to be disclosed.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Coral Group was 912.6 million note 30.
Possible changes in key assumptions that could cause the carrying value of individual licences to further exceed their recoverable amount are: Possible change Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer stakes Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer stakes, machines gross win Failure to respond to technological advances Machines gross win Deterioration in economic conditions Customer stakes, machines gross win Changes in regulation Customer stakes, machines gross win Changes in taxation Gaming machines taxation Impairment recognised during the year Impairments of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are recognised as a non-trading item.
During the year, the Group has revisited its assessment of the useful economic life of Retail licenses as well as the approach to the allocation of certain Retail central costs and assets to individual CGUs.
As a consequence of the long term outlook for UK Retail and the ongoing decline in OTC volumes, it has been deemed appropriate to allocate certain central assets and costs, which have not previously been apportioned, to individual CGUs in order to reflect a fully costed approach to impairment rather than the historic marginal cost approach.
This review has also resulted in the Group amortising licenses prospectively over a period of 15 years rather than adopting an indefinite life as in 2015.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 15.
Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets continued As a result of the above changes in the approach to impairment, the Group has recognised an impairment charge during the year against UK and European Retail of 111.6 million 2015: 53.2 million, of which 89.7 million has been recorded against licences 2015: 51.8 million and 21.9 million against plant, property and equipment 2015: 1.4 million.
During the year the Group also recognised an impairment against software of 43.5 million in relation to assets that will not continue to be used as the Group integrates its operations and systems and recorded additional impairments against licences 1.7 million, software 1.2 million, property, plant and equipment 5.6 million and customer relationships 24.8 million for assets which are no longer used, or where their cash flows do not support their carrying value.
Sensitivity analysis A 50 bps increase in the discount rate across all CGUs with other assumptions remaining constant would result in an additional write down of 7.4 million 2015: 7.5 million.
A 5% decrease in cash flows across all CGUs with other assumptions remaining constant would result in an additional write down of 12.6 million 2015: 7.2 million.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 140.4 450.7 591.1 Exchange adjustment 0.8 3.5 4.3 Additions 3.2 31.1 34.3 Disposals 4.7 13.2 17.9 Reclassifications 3.8 1.8 2.0 At 31 December 2015 141.9 463.3 605.2 Exchange adjustment 2.4 7.4 9.8 Additions 7.4 35.2 42.6 Additions from business combinations note 30 19.5 69.8 89.3 Disposals 0.9 4.5 5.4 Transferred to assets held for sale 12.8 28.8 41.6 Reclassifications 0.2 1.6 1.4 At 31 December 2016 157.7 540.8 698.5 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2015 98.5 305.2 403.7 Exchange adjustment 0.6 2.1 2.7 Depreciation charge 10.2 29.4 39.6 Disposals 2.9 10.0 12.9 Impairment charge 0.1 0.1 0.2 Reclassifications 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2015 105.3 322.0 427.3 Exchange adjustment 1.7 5.8 7.5 Depreciation charge 9.3 34.6 43.9 Disposals 0.9 4.5 5.4 Impairment charge 6.3 21.2 27.5 Transferred to assets held for sale 9.0 21.3 30.3 Reclassifications 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2016 112.7 357.5 470.2 Net book value At 31 December 2015 36.6 141.3 177.9 At 31 December 2016 45.0 183.3 228.3 At 31 December 2016, the Group had not entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of any property, plant and equipment 2015: nil.
Included within fixtures, fittings and equipment are assets in the course of construction, which are not being depreciated, of 33.2 million 2015: 2.4 million.
This relates primarily to integration related spend and shop refurbishments in Italy.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Property, plant and equipment continued Leased assets Fixtures, fittings and equipment includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2016 2015 m m Cost 11.6 12.2 Accumulated depreciation 3.2 1.0 Net book value 8.4 11.2 17.
Assets classified as held for sale The approval of the merger with the Coral Group by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA was subject to the divestment of 360 shops in the combined UK Retail estate.
The agreements for the disposal of these shops were completed at the date of merger 1 November 2016, with legal and beneficial ownership of these shops being transferred over a number of months.
Net disposal proceeds of 51.5 million were received in respect of the 360 shops.
These were initially recorded as deferred income and this is allocated to disposal proceeds as beneficial ownership of shops is transferred.
Consequently, on merger the assets of the shops to be divested were reclassified as held for sale.
On reclassification of the Ladbrokes branded shops within the 360, there was a 4.1 million impairment write down of the assets to net realisable value, which has been recognised in non-trading items along with the costs of disposal.
At the date of acquisition a number of Coral shops met the definition of held for sale assets and were recorded at fair value in the acquisition balance sheet.
As at 31 December 2016 the Group had property, plant and equipment with a net book value of 34.6 million 2015: nil classified as held for sale.
This represents the assets of divested shops that have not yet been transferred and remained under the management of the Group as at the year end.
A total of 111 shops were divested in 2016 with proceeds of 20.5 million.
The transfer of the remaining 249 divested shops has now been completed post year end.
Details of the trading results of the divested shops are set out within the Segment Information in note 5.
Interest in joint venture Share of joint ventures net assets m Cost At 1 January 2015 9.1 Exchange adjustment 0.5 Additions 2.8 Share of profit after tax 0.1 At 31 December 2015 11.5 Exchange adjustment 0.8 Additions 1.2 Share of profit after tax 1.8 At 31 December 2016 15.3 The joint venture represents the Groups investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA, an online and retail gaming business in Spain, in which it holds a 50% equity interest.
Summarised financial information in respect of the joint ventures net assets is set out below: 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 40.6 30.0 Cash and cash equivalents 11.0 7.8 Other current assets 4.2 2.2 Current assets 15.2 10.0 Current liabilities 24.2 16.8 Non-current liabilities 1.0 0.2 Joint ventures net assets 30.6 23.0 Groups share of joint ventures net asset 50% 15.3 11.5 124 ladbrokescoralplc.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 18.
Interest in joint venture continued 2016 2015 Summarised statement of comprehensive income m m Revenue 78.4 54.6 Depreciation and amortisation 5.6 4.2 Other operating expenses 71.8 50.2 Income tax credit 2.6 Profit for the year 3.6 0.2 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 3.6 0.2 Groups share of the total comprehensive income 1.8 0.1 There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint venture.
Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
Interest in associates and other investments Share of associates Other net assets investments Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 17.0 1.0 18.0 Share of profit after tax 3.9 3.9 Share of other comprehensive expense 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2015 20.3 1.0 21.3 Additions 1.0 0.3 1.3 Additions from business combinations 4.1 4.1 Share of profit after tax 4.3 4.3 Dividends received 4.7 4.7 Share of other comprehensive expense 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2016 20.7 5.4 26.1 Associates Summarised financial information in respect of the associates is set out below: 2016 2015 m m Current assets 115.3 103.5 Non-current assets 33.2 53.7 Current liabilities 59.4 66.3 Non-current liabilities 2.4 2.8 Net assets 86.7 88.1 Groups share of associates net assets 20.7 20.3 2016 2015 m m Revenue for the year 225.4 230.9 Profit for the year 18.2 17.8 Other comprehensive income 0.7 2.5 Total comprehensive income 17.5 15.3 Groups share of associates total comprehensive income 4.1 3.3 Further details of the Groups associates are listed in note 36.
The financial year end of Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited SIS, an associate of the Group, is 31 March.
The Group has included the results for SIS for the 12 months ended 31 December 2016.
SIS is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
Other investments Other investments of 5.4 million include the Group's investment in Hui 10, an equity investment measured at an initial fair value of 4.4 million on 31 October 2016.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 m m Trade receivables 6.1 5.2 Other receivables 66.4 10.1 Prepayments 54.0 37.0 126.5 52.3 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms.
Trade receivables are reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis, taking account of the ageing of outstanding amounts and the credit profile of customers.
Impaired receivables, including all trade receivables that are a year old, are provided for in an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Included in other receivables is 45.3 million in respect of an historic indirect tax settlement as disclosed in notes 7 and 9.
At 31 December 2016, trade receivables with an initial fair value of 1.1 million 2015: 1.0 million were provided for in full.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 January 1.0 0.6 Increases in provision 0.4 0.6 Utilised 0.3 0.2 At 31 December 1.1 1.0 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past their due but not impaired is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor 30 30-60 60-90 90 Total impaired days days days days m m m m m m 2016 6.1 3.8 1.3 0.2 0.8 2015 5.2 3.1 0.1 2.0 21.
Cash and cash equivalents 2016 2015 m m Cash and short-term deposits 65.8 28.3 Customer funds 80.4 40.1 Total cash and short-term deposits 146.2 68.4 Bank overdraft 1.7 Total cash and cash equivalents 144.5 68.4 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprises cash at bank with a maturity of three months or less, customer funds and overdrafts.
Trade and other payables 2016 2015 m m Trade payables 105.6 48.4 Other payables 78.1 34.9 Social security and other taxes 128.2 70.3 Accruals 157.3 83.5 Deferred income note 17 34.6 503.8 237.1 126 ladbrokescoralplc.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 23.
Provisions Litigation Vacant and property Restructuring Regulation 1 2 3 provision provision provisions Total m m m m At 1 January 2015 11.0 0.4 11.4 Provided 9.5 1.7 11.2 Utilised 3.6 3.6 Released 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2015 16.9 1.9 18.8 Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.1 0.3 On acquisition 10.6 7.3 17.9 Reclassification 4.2 4.2 Provided 3.3 15.7 8.8 27.8 Utilised 8.0 1.3 0.7 10.0 Released 1.7 3.6 5.3 At 31 December 2016 17.1 14.4 18.0 49.5 1 The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provisions have been based on managements best estimate of the minimum future cash flows to settle the Groups obligations, taking into account the risks associated with each obligation, discounted at a risk free interest rate.
The periods of vacant property commitments range from 1 to 18 years 2015: 1 to 14 years.
2 Restructuring provisions relate to redundancy costs provided in association with the merger.
3 Litigation and regulation provisions include legal, insurance and regulatory provisions associated with certain claims that have largely arisen in the year.
Of the total provisions at 31 December 2016, 36.1 million 2015: 9.2 million is current and 13.4 million 2015: 9.6 million is non-current.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2016 2015 m m Current Bank facilities 174.5 7.625% bonds due 2017 224.9 399.4 Non-current Bank facilities 254.4 7.625% bonds due 2017 224.2 5.125% bonds due 2022 99.0 98.9 5.125% bonds due 2023 396.2 749.6 323.1 The Group had committed bank facilities of 926 million, which are denominated in Pounds Sterling and mature between July 2018 and October 2020.
The maturity of facilities totalling 176.0 million is subject to the exercise of 2 extension options by the Group, which would extend maturity of those facilities from April 2017 to July 2018.
The drawings under the committed facilities at 31 December 2016 total 438.0 million 2015: nil.
Drawings under these facilities had an average interest rate of 2.7% 2015: 2.6%.
774.0 million of committed bank facilities were cancelled in the year and 75.0 million 2015: 3.2 million of committed bank facilities were carved out for letter of credit purposes.
This leaves a total of 851.0 million 2015: 350 million of available committed bank facilities at 31 December 2016.
Bank facilities above are shown net of financing fees of 9.1 million.
During the current year the Group incurred 5.9 million of non-trading charges relating to costs associated with the committed facilities which were taken out to facilitate the merger.
The charge recorded as non-trading relates to commitment fees and the amortisation of arrangement fees which were incurred on the facility prior to the merger.
All costs incurred post-merger have been treated as trading items.
During the year the Group raised 400 million through the issuance of the 5.125% bonds which mature in 2023.
Total bonds including the 2017 and 2022 bonds are stated net of issue costs of 4.8 million.
The Group has total undrawn committed bank facilities of 413.0 million at 31 December 2016 2015: 346.8 million.
All of the Groups borrowings in 2016 and 2015 were denominated in Pounds Sterling.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 127 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Lease liabilities Commitments in relation to finance leases are payable as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 2.6 4.9 Later than one year but not later than five years 2.1 4.8 Minimum lease payments 4.7 9.7 Future finance charges 0.1 0.4 Total lease liabilities 4.6 9.3 The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 2.6 4.9 Later than one year but not later than five years 2.0 4.4 Minimum lease payments 4.6 9.3 26.
Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups treasury function provides a centralised service for the provision of finance and the management and control of liquidity, foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The function operates as a cost centre and manages the Groups treasury exposures to reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, overdrafts, loan notes, bonds, financial guarantee contracts, and cash and short-term deposits, together with certain derivative financial instruments.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables, trade payables and accruals that arise directly from its operations.
At 31 December 2016 and at 31 December 2015 the Group had no significant derivatives.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken other than betting and gaming transactions.
The Groups exposure to ante-post betting and gaming transactions is not significant.
The main financial risks for the Group are interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
The Group also monitors the market price risk arising from all financial instruments.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on certain of its interest bearing loans and borrowings and on cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups policy for the year ended 31 December 2016 was to maintain a minimum of 25% 2015: 25% of total borrowings at fixed interest rates to reduce its sensitivity to movements in variable short-term interest rates.
At 31 December 2016, 720.1 million or 62.7% 2015: 323.1 million or 100% of the Groups net borrowings were at fixed rates.
Interest on financial instruments at floating rates is repriced at intervals of less than six months.
Interest on financial instruments at fixed rates is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities.
Profit before tax Equity 2016 2015 2016 2015 Effect on: m m m m 100 basis points increase 3.4 1.1 200 basis points increase 6.9 2.2 The sensitivity has been estimated by applying the basis points movement to the carrying value of the financial assets and liabilities, subject to interest at floating rates, held by the Group at the year end.
Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not have a material impact on income and equity for the year.
As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 26.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Foreign currency risk Other than the translation of foreign currency subsidiaries, there is no significant foreign currency exposure.
The Group had no other foreign currency borrowings at 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread across a large number of counterparties and customers.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Any changes to credit terms are assessed and authorised by senior management on an individual basis.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and a loan to a joint venture, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Credit risk in respect of cash and cash equivalents is managed by restricting those transactions to banks that have a defined minimum credit rating and by setting an exposure ceiling per bank.
The Group also has exposure to credit risk arising from the financial guarantee contracts provided by the Group.
This risk is partly mitigated by the indemnity received from Hilton Hotels Corporation for any loss incurred in connection with these guarantees.
For further detail of these guarantees refer to note 27.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of borrowings with a range of maturities.
The Groups policy on liquidity is to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet the medium-term funding requirements.
At 31 December 2016, there were undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 413.0 million 2015: 346.8 million.
Total committed facilities had an average maturity of 2.9 years 2015: 3.5 years.
The total gross contractual undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments, fall due as follows.
Cash flows in respect of financial guarantee contracts reflect the probability weighted cash flows.
The maximum exposure is described in note 27.
On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2016 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 447.6 34.3 341.8 543.6 1,367.3 Other financial liabilities 14.6 35.3 1.0 5.3 56.2 Trade and other payables 468.8 468.8 Total 931.0 69.6 342.8 548.9 1,892.3 On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2015 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22.3 238.7 15.4 107.7 384.1 Other financial liabilities 7.4 0.4 47.3 6.3 61.4 Trade and other payables 236.7 236.7 Total 266.4 239.1 62.7 114.0 682.2 Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a credit quality that enables the Group to raise funds at an economic interest rate and to maintain healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, adjusted borrowings, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt to EBITDA ratio before non-trading items.
The proforma ratio at 31 December 2016 was 2.9 times and at 31 December 2015 was 1.9 times 1.9 times adjusted to remove profit from High Rollers.
The Groups funding policy is to raise funds centrally to meet the Groups anticipated requirements.
These are planned so as to mature at different stages in order to reduce refinancing risk.
The Board reviews the Groups capital structure and liquidity periodically.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 129 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures Other financial liabilities 2016 2015 m m Contingent consideration 32.3 Financial guarantee contracts 2.9 3.2 Other financial liabilities 49.4 5.4 52.3 40.9 Of the total other financial liabilities at 31 December 2016 14.1 million 2015: 5.3 million is current and 38.2 million 2015: 35.6 million is non-current.
Other financial liabilities include 35.0 million 2015: nil in relation to the agreed settlement of the Playtech contingent consideration.
The table below analyses the Groups financial instruments into their relevant categories: Assets liabilities Available Loans at at fair value for sale Loans and amortised through financial receivables cost profit loss assets Total 31 December 2016 m m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets and investments 1.6 5.4 7.0 Current: Trade and other receivables 72.5 72.5 Derivatives 0.1 0.1 Cash and short-term deposits including customer funds 146.2 - 146.2 Total 220.3 0.1 5.4 225.8 Liabilities Current: Overdraft 1.7 1.7 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 399.4 399.4 Trade and other payables 468.8 468.8 Other financial liabilities 14.1 14.1 Obligations under finance leases 2.6 2.6 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 749.6 749.6 Other financial liabilities 35.2 2.9 38.1 Obligations under finance leases 2.0 2.0 Total 1,659.3 17.0 1,676.3 Net financial assets liabilities 220.3 1,659.3 16.9 5.4 1,450.5 130 ladbrokescoralplc.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 27.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Assets liabilities Available Loans at at fair value for sale Loans and amortised through financial receivables cost profit loss assets Total 31 December 2015 m m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets and investments 1.4 3.4 4.8 Current: Trade and other receivables 15.3 15.3 Derivatives 0.2 0.2 Cash and short-term deposits including customer funds 68.4 68.4 Total 85.1 0.2 3.4 88.7 Liabilities Current: Trade and other payables 236.7 236.7 Other financial liabilities 4.9 5.3 10.2 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 323.1 323.1 Other financial liabilities 35.5 35.5 Obligations under finance leases 4.4 4.4 Total 569.1 40.8 609.9 Net financial assets liabilities 85.1 569.1 40.6 3.4 521.2 Fair value of financial instruments 2016 2015 Carrying 2016 Carrying 2015 value Fair value value Fair value m m m m 225.0m 7.625% bond 225.0 227.4 225.0 239.7 100.0m 5.125% bond 100.0 101.9 100.0 98.3 400.0m 5.125% bond 400.0 393.7 The fair value of the bonds are classified as a level 1 fair value measurement for disclosure purposes, as the fair value is determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical liabilities.
The carrying values in the table above are stated before the deduction of issue costs.
Fair value hierarchy The following tables illustrate the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value after initial recognition at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015: 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets measured at fair value Derivatives 0.1 0.1 Other financial assets 5.4 5.4 Total 0.1 5.4 5.5 Liabilities measured at fair value Ante-post liabilities 14.1 14.1 Other non-current financial liabilities 2.9 2.9 Total 17.0 17.0 Net liabilities measured at fair value 0.1 11.6 11.5 LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 111 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 131 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets measured at fair value Derivatives 0.2 0.2 Other financial assets 3.4 3.4 Total 0.2 3.4 3.6 Liabilities measured at fair value Ante-post liabilities 5.3 5.3 Other non-current financial liabilities 35.5 35.5 Total 40.8 40.8 Net liabilities measured at fair value 0.2 37.4 37.2 Included within other financial assets is the Group's investment in Hui 10, an equity investment measured at an initial fair value of 4.4 million on 31 October 2016.
There have been no changes in the fair value of the investment at 31 December 2016.
Ante post liabilities are valued using methods and inputs that are not based upon observable market data.
There are no reasonably probable changes to assumptions or inputs that would lead to material changes in the fair value determined, although the final value will be determined by future sporting results.
The principal assumptions relate to anticipated gross win margins on unsettled bets.
Playtech In 2015, 31.6 million was included within other non-current financial liabilities in respect of the contingent consideration due to Playtech under the marketing services agreement.
This was classified as a level 3 financial liability, as its fair value was measured using techniques where significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
During the current year the Group reached a settlement on the outstanding consideration with the Group agreeing to pay 75 million, 40 million in shares all satisfied at the date of merger and 35 million in cash, the latter based on the delivery of certain operational milestones, but in any event, within 42 months of completion of the merger.
This amount is included within non-current financial liabilities and is classified as a loan at amortised cost.
Betdaq Betdaq contingent consideration of nil 2015: 0.7 million is linked to the performance of the business over a four year period.
The fair value of consideration at the year end was estimated using a discounted cash flow.
Post the year end the Group reached an agreement to settle the outstanding amount with no additional payments required in respect of the outstanding consideration.
Other Also included within other non-current financial liabilities are financial guarantee contracts of 2.9 million 2015: 3.2 million, classified as level 3 financial instruments as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
Further information about financial guarantee contracts, including sensitivities, and a reconciliation of changes in fair value in the year, is included below.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Financial guarantee contracts The Group has given guarantees to third parties in respect of lease liabilities of former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
The Group received an indemnity from Hilton Hotels Corporation HHC, at the time of the hotels disposal, in relation to any loss the Group may subsequently incur under these third party guarantees.
The guarantees expire between 2017 and 2042 and the lease liabilities comprise a combination of minimum contractual and turnover based elements.
The undiscounted maximum liability exposure in respect of the guarantees for all years up to 2042 is 539.5 million 2015: 560.8 million, with a maximum indemnity receivable of the same amount.
Included in the maximum liability exposure is 389.2 million 2015: 402.1 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 150.3 million 2015: 158.7 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The maximum liability represents the total of all guaranteed rentals under the non-cancellable agreements into which the Group has entered.
The net present value of the maximum exposure at 31 December 2016 is 214.9 million 2015: 210.3 million.
Included in the net present value of the maximum exposure is 146.3 million 2015: 141.4 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 68.6 million 2015: 68.9 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The Group monitors its exposure under these guarantees on a regular basis and seeks, where appropriate, to novate its obligations.
The financial guarantees liability has been valued using a probability based model to estimate the net present value of the liabilities payable in the event of a default by the hotels covered by the guarantees, and the probability of such a default and new tenants being identified.
At 31 December 2016 the Group has recognised a financial liability of 2.9 million 2015: 3.2 million in respect of these guarantees.
The key assumption in the probability model is the hotels default rate.
The 0.3 million credit has been included within the Groups corporate costs.
The table below provides a breakdown of the movement in the liability since 1 January 2016: Liability m At 1 January 2016 3.2 Reduction due to passage of time, change in discount rate and default rate 0.3 At 31 December 2016 2.9 A 0.5 percentage point increase in the default rate would increase the financial liability by 1.0 million.
A 1.0 percentage point increase in the discount rate would reduce the financial liability by 0.2 million.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 113 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 133 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Net debt The components of the Groups net debt are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Current assets 1 Cash and short-term deposits 65.8 28.3 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 1.7 Current obligations under finance leases 2.6 4.9 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 399.4 Non-current liabilities Non-current obligations under finance leases 2.0 4.4 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 749.6 323.1 Net debt 1,089.5 304.1 1 Cash used to back customer funds of 80.4 million 2015: 40.1 million is not included in the Groups net debt.
Issued share capital Number of 28p Total ordinary shares m Issued and fully paid: At 1 January 2015 954,625,329 270.5 During the year 95,387,740 27.0 At 31 December 2015 1,050,013,069 297.5 1,4 Issued as consideration for the purchase of the Coral Group 866,518,803 245.5 2 Issued during the year 29,174,406 8.3 3 Exercise of share options 503,195 0.1 At 31 December 2016 1,946,209,473 551.4 1 On 1 November 2016, the Group issued 866,518,803 consideration shares at a price of 1.347 as part of the all share merger described in note 30.
2 As at 1 November 2016 29,174,406 shares were issued at a volume weighted average price of 1.371 per share to Playtech plc in order to accelerate the determination of the amounts due under the marketing services agreement with Ladbrokes plc.
3 In addition to the above the following fully paid shares of 28 pence each were issued: 241,442 shares on exercise of options under the 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, 261,753 shares under the OWN Plan.
4 The issue of new shares in the Company in exchange for shares in GC Group Jersey Limited has attracted merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Of the 1,167.2 million fair value of the 866,518,803 shares issued in connection with the acquisition of GC Group Jersey Limited, 245.5 million 28.33 pence per ordinary share has been credited to share capital and the remaining 921.7 million has been credited to the merger reserve within equity.
Number of 28p ordinary shares Shares issued at 31 December 2015 1,050,013,069 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2015 excluding treasury shares 1,018,252,501 Shares issued at 31 December 2016 1,946,209,473 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2016 excluding treasury shares 1,914,448,905 134 ladbrokescoralplc.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 30. Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The identification and valuation of intangible assets arising on business combinations is subject to a degree of judgement.
We engaged independent third parties, including Duff and Phelps Limited to assist with the identification and valuation process.
This was performed in accordance with the Groups policies.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Costs related to the acquisition are expensed as acquired.
Summary of acquisition On 1 November 2016 the Group acquired the entire share capital of GC Group Jersey Limited through an all share merger and issuance of 866,518,803 ordinary shares.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations it has been determined that the Coral Group was acquired.
Details of the purchase consideration, the net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: The fair value of the 866,518,803 shares issued as consideration paid for the Coral Group 1,167.2 million was based on the published share price on 1 November 2016 of 1.347 per share.
The assets and liabilities recognised as a result of the acquisition are as follows: Carrying value Provisional fair value Provisional Fair at acquisition adjustment value m m m Intangible assets 921.4 353.5 1,274.9 Property, plant and equipment 89.3 89.3 Assets held for sale 26.5 26.5 Retirement benefit asset 52.3 52.3 Investments 4.1 4.1 Inventories 0.4 0.4 Trade and other receivables 70.5 70.5 Cash and cash equivalents 90.8 90.8 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 985.0 985.0 Deferred tax asset 15.6 36.4 52.0 Deferred tax liability 171.6 33.0 204.6 Trade and other payables 198.7 198.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 16.8 1.1 17.9 Total 101.2 355.8 254.6 m Net assets acquired 254.6 Goodwill 912.6 Consideration 1,167.2 The main factors leading to the recognition of goodwill is growth by combining business activities, a strong workforce, leveraging existing products and synergy cost savings of the merged operations.
Revenue and profit contribution The acquired business contributed revenues of 182.6 million and net profit of 5.7 million pre the effect of fair value adjustments to the Group for the period from 1 November 2016 to 31 December 2016.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2016, consolidated proforma revenue and net profit for the year ended 31 December 2016 would have been 2,473.0 million and 144.7 million respectively before the effect of fair value adjustments on a debt free basis at an effective tax rate of 20%.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 115 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 135 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Employee share ownership plans The Ladbrokes Coral Share Ownership Trust LCSOT is used in connection with the Groups Deferred Bonus Plan, the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, the Restricted Share Plan, the Performance Share Plan and the 2010 Share Award Plan together the Plans refer to note 34 for further details of the Plans and the various performance conditions.
The LCSOT may also be used in connection with the Groups other share-based plans, including the 1978 and 1983 Share Option Scheme and the International Share Option Scheme.
The trustee of the LCSOT, Computershare Trustees CI Limited, subscribes for the Groups shares or purchases them in the open market, as required, on the basis of regular reviews of the anticipated commitments of the Group, with financing provided by the Group.
The Ladbrokes Coral Share Incentive Plan LCSIP is currently used in connection with the Groups OWN share plan the OWN plan and Freeshare share plan Freeshare refer to note 34 for further details.
The trustee of the LSCIP, Computershare Trustees Limited, purchases the Companys shares in the open market, as required, using: i Deductions made from the salaries of participants in the OWN plan: and ii Dividends paid on the shares held by the LCSIP.
Under the OWN plan, to match those shares acquired using participants salary deductions, one additional share is allotted by the Group to the LCSIP for every one share purchased by the employee.
All expenses of the LCSOT and LCSIP are settled directly by the Group and charged in the financial statements as incurred.
The following table shows the number of shares held in trust that have not yet vested unconditionally and the associated movement in shareholders funds.
Notes to the statement of cash flows Reconciliation of loss before tax and finance expense net cash inflow from operating activities: 2016 2015 m m Loss before tax and net finance expense 202.4 15.4 Adjustments for: Impairment 192.2 58.3 Other non cash non-trading items 36.9 15.9 Loss on disposal 6.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 43.9 39.6 Amortisation of intangible assets includes amortisation on acquired intangibles 63.0 37.8 Share based payments charge 5.8 4.1 Increase in other financial assets 3.8 Decrease in trade and other receivables 41.8 3.4 Increase decrease in other financial liabilities 4.6 3.1 Increase in trade and other payables 33.9 38.6 Decrease in provisions 3.5 1.4 Contributions to retirement benefit scheme 1.9 3.6 Share of results from joint venture 1.8 0.1 Share of results from associates 4.3 3.9 Other items 1.8 1.2 Cash generated by operations 212.9 165.2 Income taxes refunded paid 18.1 2.3 Finance expense paid 36.8 26.7 Net cash generated from operating activities 194.2 136.2 Non-trading cash items total 64.9 million 2015: 25.1 million.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes During the year the Group charged contributions of 6.5 million 2015: 3.8 million to the consolidated income statement in relation to the defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined benefit plans The Group has two significant defined benefit plans, the Ladbrokes Pension Plan and the Gala Coral Pension Plan.
Both are final salary pension plans for UK employees.
These are closed to new employees and future accrual.
At retirement each members pension is related to their final pensionable salary for the Ladbrokes Pension Plan and their career average earnings for the Gala Coral Pension Plan.
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Plan is around 17 years for Ladbrokes Pension Plan and 21 years for the Gala Coral Pension Plan.
The Plans assets are held separately from those of the Group.
The Plans are approved by HMRC for tax purposes, and are managed by an independent set of Trustees.
The Plans are subject to UK regulations, which require the Group and Trustees to agree a funding strategy and contribution schedule at least every three years.
Under the current contribution schedule in place, the Group pays contributions to the Ladbrokes Pension Plan of 0.75 million each year to cover the expenses of running the Plan and will pay 0.1875 million each month to June 2017 and 0.0625 million each month thereafter.
The Group has an agreed deficit funding contribution schedule to the Gala Coral Pension Plan of 2.75 million each year.
There is a risk to the Group that adverse circumstances could lead to a requirement for the Group to make additional contributions to recover any deficit that arises.
As at the date of signing the financial statements no such event has arisen.
The results of the formal actuarial valuation as at 30 June 2013 for the Ladbrokes Pension Plan and 5 April 2014 for the Gala Coral Pension Plan were updated to 31 December 2016 by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits.
The value of the defined benefit obligation and current service cost have been measured using the projected unit credit method, as required by IAS 19 Revised.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately through other comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2016 2016 2016 Coral Ladbrokes Total 2015 m m m m Present value of funded obligations 402.7 346.9 749.6 283.2 Fair value of plan assets 443.5 437.8 881.3 359.5 Net asset 40.8 90.9 131.7 76.3 Disclosed in the balance sheet as: Retirement benefit asset 40.8 90.9 131.7 76.3 The Group has considered the appropriate accounting treatment in respect of the pension plan surplus, taking into account the current agreement with the Trustees and concluded the recognition of the surplus is appropriate.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2016 2016 2016 Coral Ladbrokes Total 2015 m m m m Analysis of amounts charged to staff costs Current service cost excluding employee element 1.6 Administrative expenses 0.9 0.9 1.0 Net interest on net asset 0.2 2.8 3.0 2.6 Total credit recognised in the income statement in staff costs 0.2 1.9 2.1 The actual return on plan assets over the year was an 83.5 million gain 2015: gain of 4.1 million.
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2016 2016 2016 Coral Ladbrokes Total 2015 m m m m Actual return on assets less interest on plan assets 8.2 76.6 68.4 8.6 Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit obligation due to changes in financial assumptions 3.5 67.3 70.8 8.6 Experience adjustments on benefit obligation 1.5 1.5 3.2 Actuarial gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 11.7 10.8 0.9 3.2 LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 137 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2016 2016 2016 Coral Ladbrokes Total 2015 m m m m At 1 January 283.2 283.2 296.3 On acquisition 399.8 399.8 Current service cost excluding employee element 1.6 Employee contributions 0.5 Interest on obligation 1.8 10.3 12.1 10.1 Actuarial gains losses due to changes in financial assumptions 3.5 67.3 70.8 8.6 Experience adjustments on obligations 1.5 1.5 3.2 Benefits paid 2.4 12.4 14.8 13.5 At 31 December 402.7 346.9 749.6 283.2 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2016 2016 2016 Coral Ladbrokes Total 2015 m m m m At 1 January 359.5 359.5 365.8 On acquisition 452.1 452.1 Interest on plan assets 2.0 13.1 15.1 12.7 Administration expenses 0.9 0.9 1.0 Actual return less interest on plan assets 8.2 76.6 68.4 8.6 Contributions by the sponsoring companies 1.9 1.9 3.6 Employee contributions 0.5 Benefits paid 2.4 12.4 14.8 13.5 At 31 December 443.5 437.8 881.3 359.5 The Group expects to contribute 1.5 million to the Ladbrokes Pension Plan and 2.75 million into the Gala Coral Pension Plan in 2017.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2016 2016 Coral Ladbrokes 2015 % % % Equities and Diversified Growth Funds 18 63 65 Liability Driven Investment % 82 19 19 Cash 18 16 100 100 100 The Plan assets are held exclusively within instruments with quoted market prices in an active market with the exception of the holdings in an insurance policy.
At 31 December 2016 these represented c. 0.2% of the Plans total assets.
The Plan does not invest directly in property occupied by the Group or in financial securities issued by the Group.
Although, as the Plan holds pooled investment vehicles, there may at times be indirect employer related investment.
At 31 December 2016 these represented less than 0.1% of the Plans total assets.
The investment strategy is set by the Trustees of the Plans in consultation with the Group.
The current long-term strategy for the Ladbrokes Pension Plan is to invest in a matching portfolio sufficient to meet the next 15 years of cash flows with the remaining assets invested in return seeking funds.
For the Gala Coral Plan the current long-term strategy is to invest in a low-risk matching bond portfolio with a relatively small investment in return seeking funds.
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date expressed as weighted averages where appropriate : 2016 2016 Coral Ladbrokes 2015 % p. a.
Retirement benefit schemes continued For the Ladbrokes Pension Plan post-retirement mortality assumed for most members is based on the standard SAPS mortality table with the CMI 2012 projections, which takes into account future improvements, adjusted to reflect plan specific experience.
The assumption used implies that the expected lifetime of members aged 65 in 2016 is 87.1 2015: 87.0 years for males and 89.3 2015: 89.2 years for females.
For members with large pensions a longer lifetime is assumed 90.2 2015: 90.1 years for males and 91.3 2015: 91.2 years for females.
For the Gala Coral Pension Plan post-retirement mortality assumed for most members is based on the standard SAPS mortality table with the CMI 2013 projections, which takes into account future improvements, adjusted to reflect plan specific experience.
The assumption used implies that the expected lifetime of members aged 65 in 2016 is 87.2 years for males and 88.9 years for females.
Changes to the assumptions will impact the amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated income statement in respect of the Plan.
For the significant assumptions, the following sensitivity analysis provides an indication of the impact on the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 December 2016: 2016 2016 Coral Ladbrokes 2015 % % % 0.5% p. a. decrease in the discount rate 11.1 8.8 8.1 0.5% p. a. increase in price inflation 7.9 5.0 5.0 One year increase in life expectancy 3.1 3.2 2.6 These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation in isolation, and assuming no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
This is unlikely in practice, for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement in the value of the assets held by the Plan.
Share-based payments The Group has the following share-based payment plans, all of which are settled by equity: the Restricted Share Plan: the Deferred Bonus Plan: the Performance Share Plan: the Ladbrokes Growth Plan: the International Share Option Scheme: the 1978 Share Option Scheme: Sharesave: the OWN Plan: and Freeshare.
The plans and the various performance conditions are discussed in more detail below: i Restricted Share Plan Awards made under the Restricted Share Plan will vest after three years and are not subject to performance conditions, other than service conditions.
ii Deferred Bonus Plan For certain senior executives, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after three years.
For other employees, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after two years.
iii Performance Share Plan An award under the Performance Share Plan consists of a conditional allocation of shares that will vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the end of the three year performance period.
The awards have two separate performance conditions: half of the award vests based on TSR and half of the award vests based on EPS growth.
iv Ladbrokes Growth Plan Awards are subject to share price growth performance conditions.
Any share price target must be attained throughout a period of 30 consecutive dealing days and performance is assessed over a five year period.
Up to one third of the award may vest at the end of year three if the performance targets have been achieved at that time.
A further third may vest at the end of year four if the targets have been met at that time.
The remainder of the award may vest at the end of year five, subject to the achievement of the performance targets.
v International Share Option Scheme and the 1978 Share Option Scheme The share options granted are all market value options with a three year vesting period.
Vested options lapse if they have not been exercised within 10 years of the date of grant.
All options have an EPS growth based performance condition.
Options have not been granted since 2009 and there is no present intention to grant options in the future.
vi 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Under Sharesave, options are granted at a 20% discount to market value.
The scheme operates with a savings period of either three or five years, at the end of which the option may be exercised.
LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 119 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 139 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Share-based payments continued vii Plan Under the OWN Plan, employees can contribute up to 75 per month to acquire shares.
For every one share purchased, the Group provides a match of one additional share.
viii Freeshare Under Freeshare, an award of up to 250 in value was made to participating employees on reaching one years service.
Freeshares have not been awarded since 2010 and there is no present intention to make awards in the future.
The following table sets out the number of share awards outstanding at the beginning of the year, the number of shares granted, lapsed and vested during the year together with the outstanding share balances as at the end of the year in respect of the Restricted Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan and Ladbrokes Growth Plan.
Restricted Share Deferred Bonus Performance Plan Plan Share Plan Growth Plan Total Outstanding at 1 January 2016 3,959,243 73,057 14,855,225 186,990 19,074,515 Granted 613,778 528,967 7,732,135 8,874,880 Reinstated 75,000 75,000 Dividend equivalent awards 4,686 4,686 Lapsed 397,998 21,555 4,208,799 4,628,352 Vested Exercised 974,016 73,057 1,047,073 Outstanding at 31 December 2016 3,201,007 507,412 18,453,561 191,676 22,353,656 Share awards granted during the year in respect of the Performance Share Plan: 2016 2015 Number 7,732,135 6,769,395 Weighted average fair value 1.03 0.96 The fair value of share awards was measured by calculating the present value of the dividends receivable between the grant date and the vesting date and valuing the market related performance conditions through the use of a closed-form model, similar to a Monte Carlo simulation.
The total value of these shares is 1.8 million 2015: 4.9 million.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 1.36 2015: 1.11.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 45.1 pence 2015: 25.0 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding at 31 December 2016 is between one and two years 2015: between two and three years.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was 0.91 to 3.50 2015: 0.91 to 3.60.
At 31 December 2016, there were 3,846,753 options outstanding with an exercise price below 1.00, 1,419,917 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.01 and 2.00, 6,752 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00 and 6,600 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.10 and 3.50.
At 31 December 2015, there were 2,743,200 options outstanding with an exercise price below 1.00, 2,368,579 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.10 and 2.00, 6,752 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00, and 1,086,119 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.01 and 3.60.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 34.
Share-based payments continued The key inputs into the valuation models were as follows: 2016 2015 Weighted average share price 1.36 1.11 Weighted average exercise price 0.94 0.92 Expected volatility % 33.0 32.0 Expected life years 1.4 2.2 Risk free rate % 0.4 0.79 Expected dividend yield % 2.2 7.3 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of 5.8 million within trading items 2015: 4.1 million and 0.7 million within non-trading items 2015: nil relating to equity settled share-based payment transactions.
Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has a number of lease agreements that, pursuant to their economic substance, qualify as non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These primarily relate to rents payable on land and buildings.
The terms of the leases vary significantly but can broadly be summarised as follows: Lease terms Shop leases are typically agreed on five year exit cycles either expiry or break, with a maximum term length of 15 years.
Some leases are shorter in duration or with earlier exits.
Determination of rent payments Rent payments are based on the amount specified in the agreement.
Terms of renewal The agreements are not terminated automatically after expiry of the lease term and in the majority of cases, lease extension options have been agreed upon and in many other cases, there will be an opportunity to negotiate lease extensions with the lessor at market rates.
Restrictions There are no restrictions imposed upon the Group concerning dividends, additional debt or further leasing under any of the existing lease arrangements.
Lease payments recognised as an expense for the year: 2016 2015 m m Minimum lease payments 73.8 68.9 Analysis of minimum lease payments by division: 2016 2015 m m UK Retail 64.9 60.1 European Retail 7.3 7.5 Digital 1.4 1.3 Corporate 0.2 Total 73.8 68.9 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 95.9 60.5 After one year but not more than five years 231.9 147.8 After five years 90.4 58.0 Total 418.2 266.3 LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 141 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Commitments and contingencies continued Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has entered into sublease agreements for unutilised space in the UK shop estate.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining lease terms of between one and nine years.
Lease receipts recognised as income for the year: 2016 2015 m m Minimum lease receipts 2.9 2.9 Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 1.3 0.3 After one year but not more than five years 3.2 2.7 After five years 1.7 3.4 6.2 6.4 Contingent liabilities Guarantees have been given in the ordinary course of business in respect of loans and derivative contracts granted to subsidiaries amounting to 1,163 million 2015: 325.0 million.
Bank guarantees have been issued on behalf of subsidiaries with a value of 46.3 million 2015: 5.9 million and the joint venture with a value of 10.6 million 2015: 8.9 million.
The Group has given guarantees to third parties in respect of lease liabilities of former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
See note 27 for full disclosure.
com Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued 36.
Related party disclosures The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc and its subsidiaries.
The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December.
Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom % equity interest Registered address Company 2016 2015 1 5 6 Imperial House Arbiter & Weston Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Imperial Drive Bartletts Limited 100.0 100.0 1 3 5 6 Rayners Lane Birchgree Limited 100.0 100.0 Harrow Chequered Racing Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Middlesex Competition Management Services Co. Limited 97.5 97.5 HA2 7JW 6 E. F. Politt & Son Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Forestal Land, Timber and Railways Company Limited The 100.0 100.0 1 6 Gable House Estates Limited 100.0 100.0 Ganton House Investments Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Greatmark Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Hillford Estates Limited 97.5 97.5 Hindwain Limited 100.0 100.0 6 J.
Ward Hill & Company 100.0 100.0 Jack Brown Bookmaker Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Jerusalem Development Mamilla Co. Limited 100.0 100.0 5 6 Jerusalem Development Corporation Holdings Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Krullind Limited 100.0 100.0 5 Ladbroke & Co. Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Ladbroke Course Limited 100.0 100.0 Ladbroke Rentals Limited 100.0 100.0 3 5 Ladbroke City & County Land Company Limited 100.0 100.0 1 6 Ladbroke Corporate Director Limited 100.0 100.0 1 6 Ladbroke Corporate Secretaries Limited 100.0 100.0 1 3 5 Ladbroke Dormant Holding Company Limited 100.0 100.0 1 3 Ladbroke Entertainments Limited 100.0 100.0 3 5 Ladbroke Group 100.0 100.0 6 Ladbroke Group Homes Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Ladbroke Group International 100.0 100.0 1 5 6 Ladbroke Group Properties Limited 100.0 100.0 1 6 Ladbroke Land Limited 100.0 100.0 3 Ladbroke Leasing South East Limited 100.0 100.0 3 Ladbroke Racing Reading Limited 100.0 100.0 3 Ladbroke Racing South East Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Ladbroke Retail Parks Limited 100.0 100.0 5 Ladbroke US Investments Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Ladbrokes CLJEA Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Ladbrokes CLJHC Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Ladbrokes CLJSW Limited 100.0 100.0 2 4 5 Ladbrokes Betting & Gaming Limited 100.0 100.0 3 Ladbrokes Contact Centre Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Ladbrokes CPCB Limited 100.0 100.0 1 Ladbrokes E-Gaming Limited 100.0 100.0 1 2 Ladbrokes Group Finance plc 100.0 100.0 5 6 Ladbrokes Group Holdings Limited 100.0 100.0 3 5 Ladbrokes Investments Holdings Limited 100.0 100.0 1 Ladbrokes IT & Shared Services Limited 100.0 100.0 1 6 Ladbrokes Life Benefits Trustee Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Ladbrokes PT Limited 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Trustee Company Limited 100.0 100.0 6 London & Leeds Estates Limited 93.5 93.5 3 Maple Court Investments Limited 100.0 100.0 5 Margolis and Ridley Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Minerva Acquisition Red 1 Limited 100.0 6 Minerva Acquisition Red 2 Limited 100.0 1 6 New Angel Court Limited 100.0 100.0 1 6 Paddington Casino Limited 100.0 100.0 LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 143 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Related party disclosures continued Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom continued % equity interest Registered address Company 2016 2015 Imperial House Sabrinet Limited 100.0 100.0 5 Imperial Drive Sponsio Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Rayners Lane Techno Land Improvements Limited 100.0 100.0 1 2 Harrow Town and County Factors Limited 100.0 100.0 5 Middlesex Travel Document Service 100.0 100.0 HA2 7JW Ventmear Limited 100.0 100.0 Vernons Competitions Company 100.0 100.0 6 7 New Castle House Arthur Prince Turf Accountants Limited 100.0 6 7 Castle Boulevard Bloxhams Bookmakers Limited 100.0 7 Nottingham Brickagent Limited 100.0 5 7 Nottinghamshire CE Acquisition 1 Limited 100.0 6 7 NG7 1FT Chas Kendall Turf Accountant Limited 100.0 6 7 Choicebet Limited 100.0 6 7 C L Jennings 1995 Limited 100.0 5 7 Coral Holdings Limited 100.0 6 7 Coral Stoke Limited 100.0 7 Coral Estates Limited 100.0 7 Coral Eurobet Limited 100.0 5 7 Coral Eurobet Holdings Limited 100.0 5 7 Coral Group Limited 100.0 2 5 7 Coral Group Trading Limited 100.0 5 7 Coral Limited 100.0 2 4 5 7 Coral Racing Limited 100.0 4 5 7 Coral Stadia Limited 100.0 6 7 Forsters Bookmakers Limited 100.0 6 7 Gala Coral Nominees Limited 100.0 6 7 Gala Coral Pension Trustee Limited 100.0 6 7 Gala Coral Properties Limited 100.0 6 7 Gala Coral Secretaries Limited 100.0 6 7 J G Leisure Limited 100.0 6 7 Joe Jennings 1995 Limited 100.0 6 7 Joe Jennings Limited 100.0 5 6 7 Lightworld Limited 100.0 6 7 Minerva Acquisition Blue 1 Limited 100.0 6 7 Minerva Acquisition Blue 2 Limited 100.0 6 7 Minerva Acquisition Blue 3 Limited 100.0 6 7 Reg.
Boyle Limited 100.0 5 6 7 Reuben Page Limited 100.0 4 7 Romford Stadium Limited 100.0 6 7 Sports Bookmakers Limited 100.0 6 7 Vegas Betting Limited 100.0 th 6 7 Suite A, 7 Floor Hillside LBO Holdings Limited 100.0 6 7 City Gate East D&W Bruce Limited 100.0 Tollhouse Hill, Nottingham Nottinghamshire NG1 5FS 5 77A Andersonstown Road Ladbrokes Northern Ireland Holdings Limited 100.0 100.0 Belfast Ladbrokes Northern Ireland Limited BT11 9AH 100.0 100.0 4 28 la Porte Precinct North West Bookmakers Limited 100.0 100.0 6 Grangemouth Moffat Lodge Motor Inn Limited 100.0 100.0 FK3 8BG 144 ladbrokescoralplc.
Related party disclosures continued Subsidiaries based overseas % equity interest Registered address Company 2016 2015 5 461-473 Lutwyche Road Gaming Investments Pty Limited 100.0 100.0 2 4 Lutwyche Ladbrokes Digital Australia Pty Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Queensland Ladbrokes Operations Australia Pty Limited 100.0 100.0 1 5 QLD 4030 LB Australia Holdings Pty Limited 100.0 100.0 Australia Panda Gaming Pty Limited 100.0 100.0.
1 5 Chausse fide Wavre 1100 3 Ladbroke Belgium S. A 100.0 100.0 1160 Auderghem Pari Mutuel Management Services S. A.
100.0 100.0 Belmont Chambers Creative Trend Limited 100.0 100.0 5 Road Town CTL Holdings International Limited 100.0 100.0 5 Tortola SRL Holdings International Limited 100.0 100.0 British Virgin Islands Sunrise Resources Limited 100.0 100.0 5 Ugland House Cayman Investments Number 1 100.0 100.0 5 Grand Cayman, KY1-1104 International Finance Investment 100.0 100.0 Cayman Islands 13 F, Gloucester Tower Ladbrokes Lottery Asia Co. Limited 100.0 100.0 The Landmark 15 Queens Road Central Hong Kong China Holbersgade 14, 2tv Ladbrokes ApS 100.0 100.0 DK-1057, Copenhagen K Denmark Klosterstraede 23 3tv Sponsio Denmark A S 100.0 100.0 DK-1157, Copenhagen K Denmark 57 63 Line Wall Road Balltree International Limited 100.0 100.0 Gibraltar Bingo Marketing Limited 100.0 2 4 5 7 Coral Interactive Gibraltar Limited 100.0 5 7 Gala Coral Interactive Gibraltar Limited 100.0 2 4 5 7 Gala Interactive Gibraltar Limited 100.0 2 4 5 Ladbrokes International plc 100.0 100.0 2 4 Ladbrokes Sportsbook Limited Partnership 100.0 100.0 4 Inchalla, Alderney Exchange Platform Solutions Limited 100.0 100.0 GY9 3UL, Guernsey st 1 Floor, Otter House Ace Racing Limited 100.0 100.0 Naas Road Dara Properties Limited 100.0 100.0 Dublin 22 Gossamer Limited 100.0 100.0 Ireland Harney Bookmakers Limited 100.0 100.0 Keenan Sport & Leisure Limited 100.0 100.0 2 4 5 Ladbroke Ireland Limited 100.0 100.0 2 4 Ladbroke Leisure Ireland Limited 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Payments Ireland Limited 100.0 100.0 M D Betting Limited 100.0 100.0 7 Arthur Cox Building Gala Coral Interactive Ireland Limited 100.0 Earlsfort Terrace Dublin 2 Ireland LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 145 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Related party disclosures continued Subsidiaries based overseas continued % equity interest Registered address Company 2016 2015 th 4 Floor, IFSC House Ladbroke Services Ireland Limited 100.0 Custom House Quay Dublin 1, Ireland 7 Menahem Begin 125 Gala Interactive Services Limited 100.0 Tel Aviv, Israel 1 2 5 Hacilazon Street Ladbrokes Israel Limited 100.0 100.0 Ramat Gan, 5252269 Tel Aviv, Israel 2 4 7 Via Alessandro Marchetti No.
105 Brickagent Italia SRL 100.0 5 7 Rome 00148 Eurobet Holding SRL 100.0 7 Italy Eurobet International SPA 100.0 2 4 5 7 Eurobet Italia SRL 100.0 st 1 Floor, Liberation House IHF Jersey Limited 100.0 100.0 4 Castle Street, Ladbroke Channel Islands Limited 100.0 100.0 St. Helier JE1 1GL, Jersey 7 47 Esplanade, GC Group Jersey Limited 100.0 St Helier JE1 0BD, Jersey 13 Castle Street, Maple Court Investments Jersey Limited 100.0 100.0 St Helier JE4 5UT, Jersey 7 Cagayan Economic Zone Sta.
Ana, NCH Customer Support Services, Inc 100.0 Cagayan Philippines th 1 24A 18 Street Ladbrokes SA Pty Limited 60.0 60.0 Menlo Park, Pretoria 0081, South Africa Castello 82 4 IZQ, 28006 Ladbrokes Betting and Gaming Spain, S. A.
100.0 100.0 Madrid, Spain 1 5 2711 Centreville Road, Suite 400, Ladbrokes Holdco, Inc. 100.0 100.0 City of Wilmington County of New Castle 19808, United States 4 608 Lander Street Stadium Technology Group, LLC 79.0 79.0 Reno NV 89509 United States 1 Company that is directly owned by Ladbrokes Coral Group plc.
2 Company that forms part of the Group as at 31 December 2016 and which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the Groups reported results for the year.
3 Company which the Group will exempt from an audit under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 and are fully consolidated in these financial statements.
4 Trading entity engaged in activity associated with betting and gaming.
7 Formed part of the Gala Coral Group prior to the merger with the Company.
Joint ventures % equity interest Country of incorporation Company 2016 2015 Mexico Digital Gaming Mexico S. A. P. I.
35.0 35.0 Panama Sportium Apuestas Panama 40.0 40.0 Spain Cirsa Digital S. A. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apostes Catalunya S. A. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Aragon, S. L. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Asturias S. A. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Canarias S. L. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Castilla La Mancha S. L. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Galicia, S. L. U 50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Levante, S. A. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Melilla S. L. U.
50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Navarra S. A. U 50.0 50.0 Sportium Apuestas Oeste S. A. U.
50.0 50.0 Subsidiary of Sportium Apuestas Deportivas, S. A.
Related party disclosures continued Other associates % equity interest Country of incorporation Company 2016 2015 1 China Asia Gaming Technologies Beijing Co. Ltd 49.0 49.0 1 Asia Gaming Technologies Tianjin Co. Ltd 49.0 49.0 Asia Gaming Technologies Limited 49.0 49.0 United Kingdom 49s Limited 66.6 33.3 Games For Good Causes PLC 36.3 36.3 2 Lucky Choice Limited 66.6 33.3 Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited 23.4 23.4 1 Subsidiary of Asia Gaming Technologies Limited.
2 Ladbrokes and Gala Coral both held a 33.3 % equity interest each in the associate prior to the merger.
Consequently, the Groups % equity interest increased to 66.6% on completion of the merger.
The associate is not consolidated in the Group accounts on the basis that the Group does not exercise management control over the associate.
Other than its associates and joint venture, the related parties of the Group are the executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee of the Group.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture and other related parties are disclosed below.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2016 2015 m m Equity investment 1 Joint venture 1.2 2.8 2 Associates 1.0 Loans Movement in loan balance with joint venture partner 1.0 Movement in loan balance with joint venture 0.1 Dividends received 3 Associates 4.7 Sundry expenditure 4 Associates 60.5 52.1 1 Equity investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA.
2 Equity investment in Asia Gaming Technologies.
3 Dividend received from Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
4 Payments in the normal course of business made to Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
Details of related party outstanding balances 2016 2015 m m Loan balances outstanding Joint venture 1.6 0.6 Other amounts outstanding Associates 2.6 1.6 Joint venture 1.8 1.6 LadbrokesCoral classification: Internal Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 127 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 147 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Related party disclosures continued Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to, and purchases from, related parties are made at market prices and in the ordinary course of business.
Outstanding balances at 31 December 2016 are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group has not raised any provision 2015: nil for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties as the payment history has been good.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group The remuneration of key management personnel is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Key management personnel comprise executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the Executive management team.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, which totalled 2.3 million 2015: 2.1 million, is provided in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 86.
2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 3.1 2.9 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6 Termination benefits 0.2 1.4 Share-based payments 0.6 2.6 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 4.5 7.5 Directors interests in the employee share incentive plan and employee share trust are disclosed within the Directors remuneration report.
Subsequent events There were no material subsequent events that required adjustment or disclosure in the financial statements.
