01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 59.
Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited the Company, or JLIF is a company domiciled and incorporated in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange under a Premium Listing.
The financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2016 have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out below.
The financial statements comprise the Company and its investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. The Company and its subsidiaries invest in PPP infrastructure projects in the UK, Europe and North America.
The Company accounts for its investment in its direct subsidiary JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. at fair value.
The Company, together with its direct subsidiary JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. and all the intermediate holding subsidiaries compose the Group investing in PPP assets the Group.
The net assets of the intermediate holding companies, which at 31 December 2016 principally comprise working capital and outstanding loan balances, are included at fair value in the carrying value of investments.
These financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law 2008 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and therefore the Companys financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
The Company has not adopted during the year any new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards interpretations and amendments.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the Company has not applied the following new and revised IFRS standards that have been issued but are not yet effective and have not yet been adopted by the EU: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS16 Leases IFRS 2 amendments Classication and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IAS 7 amendments Disclosure Initiative IAS 12 amendments Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
The Directors intend to perform a detailed analysis of the potential impact of these standards on the Company and its investments during 2017. b Basis of preparation The Company a Obtains funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing those investor s with investment management services: b Commits to its investor s that its business purpose is to invest funds solely for returns from investment income, capital appreciation, or both: and c Measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
Consequently, the Company does not consolidate its subsidiaries or apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations when it obtains control of another entity as it is considered to be an Investment Entity under IFRS.
Instead, the Company measures its investment in its subsidiary at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company only.
The Company recognises its investment in its direct subsidiary, JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value estimate of JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. includes the fair value of both this company and all of the Companys subsidiaries and PPP investments.
The Company invests solely for capital appreciation, investment income, or both.
Consequently, the Company does not plan to hold its investments indefinitely.
The Company has an exit strategy for the portfolio of investments held indirectly.
JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. is itself an investment entity.
Consequently, the Company need not have an exit strategy for its investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. Similarly, any other subsidiaries that are investment entities themselves do not require an exit strategy to meet the denition of an investment entity.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2016 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED b Basis of preparation continued Each investment indirectly held subordinated debt together with equity has a nite life.
The subordinated debt will mature towards the end of the concession and at the end of the concession the investment will be liquidated.
The exit strategy is that investments will normally be held to liquidation at the end of the concession unless the Company sees an opportunity in the market to dispose of investments.
John Laing Capital Management Limited the Investment Adviser and the JLIF Board regularly consider whether any disposals should be made.
c Going concern The Directors, in their consideration of going concern have reviewed comprehensive cash ow forecasts prepared by the Investment Adviser, which are based on prudent market data and past experience and believe, based on those forecasts and an assessment of the Companys and the Groups committed banking facilities, that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements of the Company on the going concern basis.
In arriving at their conclusion that the Group has adequate financial resources, the Directors were mindful that the Group had unrestricted cash of 32.7 million including 5.5 million for the Company and a five-year banking facility available for investment in new or existing projects and working capital of 180.0 million, which expires in August 2020, and an accordion facility of 150.0 million which expires in June 2019.
As at 31 December 2016, there was the equivalent of 171.4 million drawn under the facility which was used to acquire investments in the year.
All key financial covenants are forecast to continue to be complied with.
On 20 March 2017 the Company announced a proposed share issuance by way of a shareholder tap issue for up to approximately 89.8 million new ordinary shares.
The proceeds of the issue will be used to repay most of the outstanding Sterling borrowings.
The Company, through its intermediate holding companies, holds investments in 62 infrastructure PPP project companies which yield annual interest, dividends and loan repayments.
The cash ow yields from the projects cover the Groups expected cash ow requirements for overheads and targeted dividend distribution policy.
The Company and its intermediate holding companies have sufficient financial resources together with their PPP investments public-sector long-term contracts across a range of infrastructure projects.
As a consequence, the Directors consider that the Company and its intermediate holdings companies are well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Certain risks and uncertainties, as detailed in note 18 have been considered by the Board.
The Board has concluded that these do not represent a significant threat to the Company and the Group as the Groups income is generated from a portfolio of PPP concessions which are supported by government-backed cash ows and are forecast to cover the Groups committed costs.
The Directors, at the time of approving the financial statements, are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these annual financial statements.
d Revenue recognition Operating income Operating income in the income statement represents the combination of the income from and the movement in the fair value of the Companys investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. Refer to note 10 for details.
e Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term highly liquid deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash ow statement.
Deposits held with original maturities of greater than three months are included in other financial assets.
f Foreign currencies The financial statements are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the financial statements, the results and financial position of the Company and the underlying fair valued financial position of JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. are expressed in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the Company, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each Balance Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 61.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED g Taxation Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
Dividend income and interest income received by the Group may be subject to withholding tax imposed in the country of origin of such income.
The underlying project companies in which the Group invests provide for and pay taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate.
h Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys Statement of Financial Position when the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash ows from the instrument expire or the asset is transferred and the transfer qualies for derecognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement.
i Financial assets The Company classies its financial assets in the following categories: fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Company determines the classication of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Investments at fair value through profit or loss Investments at fair value through profit or loss are designated upon initial recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
In these financial statements, investment at fair value through profit or loss is the fair value of the Companys direct subsidiary, JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. which comprises the fair value of JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. all the intermediate holding companies and the PPP investments.
JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. and the intermediate holding companies net assets are mainly composed of cash and working capital and an outstanding loan balance of 171.4 million comprising 59.0 million and 121.0 million and are recognised at fair value which is equivalent to their net assets.
The Companys investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. comprises both equity and a profit Participating Agreement PPA.
Both elements are exposed to the same primary risk, being performance risk.
This performance risk is taken into consideration when determining the discount rate applied to the forecast cash ows.
In determining fair value the Board considered observable market transactions and have measured fair value using assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset including assumptions regarding risk.
The PPA and equity are considered to have the same risk characteristics and as such the PPA and equity form a single class of financial instrument for the purposes of disclosure.
The Company measures its investment as a single class of financial asset at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
b Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that are non-derivative financial assets and that have xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classied as loans and other receivables.
Loans and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
They are included in current assets, except where maturities are greater than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date which are classied as Non-Current Assets.
The Companys loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Financial Position.
ii Financial liabilities and equity Debt and equity instruments are classied as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
a Equity instruments share capital and share premium Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or associated with the establishment of the Company that would otherwise have been avoided are written off against the balance of the Share Premium Account.
b Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classied as other financial liabilities, comprising of: Loans and borrowings which are recognised initially at fair value of the consideration received, less transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loan and borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis: and Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
