Directors, Agents and Advisers DIRECTORS ALL NON-EXECUTIVE REGISTRAR AUDITOR Paul Lester Chairman Capita Registrars Guernsey Limited John Clacy FCA for an on behalf of David MacLellan Deputy Chairman Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants Longue Hougue House & Senior Independent Director and Recognised Auditor St Sampson Helen Green Guernsey GY2 4JN Regency Court Talmai Morgan Channel Islands Glategny Esplanade Christopher Spencer St Peter Port Guido Van Berkel UK TRANSFER AGENT Guernsey GY1 3HW Channel Islands Capita Registrars Limited INVESTMENT ADVISER The Registry AND OPERATOR 34 Beckenham Road PUBLIC RELATIONS John Laing Capital Beckenham RLM Finsbury Management Limited Kent BR3 4TU Tenter House United Kingdom 1 Kingsway 45 Moorelds London WC2B 6AN London EC2Y 9AE United Kingdom CORPORATE BROKER United Kingdom J. P. Morgan Securities Limited ADMINISTRATOR TO COMPANY, 25 Bank Street CORPORATE BANKERS COMPANY SECRETARY Canary Wharf Royal Bank of Scotland International AND REGISTERED OFFICE London E14 5JP PO Box 55 Heritage International Fund United Kingdom 35 High Street Managers Limited St Peter Port P. O.
Box 225, Heritage Hall Guernsey GY1 4BE Le Marchant Street St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 4HY Channel Islands 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 91.
Cautionary statement Pages 4 to 37 of this Annual Report including but not limited to the Chairmans Statement, Risk Committee Report and the Investment Adviser Report, together the Review Section have been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
These should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
The Review Section may include statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identied by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, forecasts, projects, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors and the Investment Adviser concerning, amongst other things, the investment objectives and investment policy, nancing strategies, investment performance, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, opportunities and distribution policy of the Company and the markets in which it invests.
These forward-looking statements reect current expectations regarding future events and performance and speak only as at the date of this Annual Report.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of whether or not the times at or by which such performance or results will be achieved.
The Companys actual investment performance, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, opportunities, distribution policy and the development of its nancing strategies may differ materially from the impression created by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report.
Subject to their legal and regulatory obligations, the Directors and the Investment Adviser expressly disclaim any obligations to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein to reect any change in expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any statement is based.
In addition, the Review Section may include target gures for future financial periods.
Any such gures are targets only and are not forecasts.
This Annual Report has been prepared for the JLIF Group as a whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are significant to John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
JLIF Limited Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from well managed forests in Brazil, Sweden and Germany with FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Printed by Pureprint Group Limited, a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Pureprint Group Limited is FSC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
JLIF Limited Annual Report 2016 John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited Annual Report 2016 P. O.
Box 225, Heritage Hall Le Marchant Street St Peter Port Guernsey, GY1 4HY Channel Islands Registered number: 52256 Tel: 44 0 1481 716000 PARTNERS Fax: 44 0 1481 730617 Actively generating long term GIIN Number: K2UFLF.
831 DELIVER sustainable value ENHANCE INSIGHT Health Education COMMUNITIES Justice & Emergency Services Transport ADAPTABILITY Regeneration & Social Housing Government Buildings OPENNESS Street Lighting Health RESPONSIBILITY Education Justice & Emergency Services DEVELOP Transport Regeneration & Social Housing Government Buildings Street Lighting Health Education Justice & Emergency Services Transport Regeneration & Social Housing Government Buildings Street Lighting Health Education Justice & Emergency Services Transport Regeneration & Social Housing Government Buildings Street Lighting Further copies of this statement are available by visiting the Companys website or at the address above.
