01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 87.
Glossary Adjusted DRU means the natural unwind of the discount rate, adjusted for the timing of acquisitions and distributions in the period.
Adjusted Portfolio Value a the Fair Value of the Investment Portfolio see Portfolio Value : plus b any cash owned by or held to the order of the Company the Group : plus c the aggregate amount of payments made to shareholders by way of dividend in the period ending on the relevant valuation day, less i any borrowings and any other liabilities of the Company: and ii any uninvested cash.
Amended Existing FOA means the first offer agreement between JLIF, the General Partner for and on behalf of the Partnership and John Laing dated 21 January 2014 amending the First Offer Agreement dated 28 October 2010.
Company means John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited.
First Offer Agreements means the first offer agreements between JLIF, the General Partner for and on behalf of the Partnership and John Laing dated 29 October 2010, and 21 January 2014.
Group The group of companies comprised of the Company, its two wholly owned Luxembourg subsidiaries JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. and JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l., the English Limited Partnership JLIF Limited Partnership, the General Partner JLIF GP Limited and the 31 wholly owned subsidiaries of the English Limited Partnership that together held the investments in the 62 assets at 31 December 2016.
HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs Initial Public Offering IPO means JLIFs first sale of stock to the public on 29 November 2010.
Investment Adviser John Laing Capital Management Limited, acting in its capacity as Investment Adviser to John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement.
Investment Advisory Agreement The investment advisory agreement between the Investment Adviser and John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited dated 27 October 2010, as amended on 10 September 2014.
Investment Investment Capital Partnership equity, loans, share capital, trust units, shareholder loans and or debt interests in or to project entities or any other entities or undertakings in which the fund invests or in which it may invest.
John Laing or John Laing Group plc John Laing Group plc and all of its wholly owned subsidiaries, including John Laing Capital Management Limited.
John Laing Capital Management Limited Investment Adviser to the John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited and Operator of JLIF GP Limited.
Net Asset Value NAV Total Assets including Portfolio Value minus liabilities of the Group.
Net Asset Value NAV per share Net Asset Value NAV divided by the total number of Ordinary Shares issued as at 31 December 2016.
New FOA means the new first offer agreement between JLIF, the General Partner for and on behalf of the Partnership and John Laing dated 21 January 2014.
OECD countries means the member countries of The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
Glossary continued Partnership means JLIF Limited Partnership, a limited partnership registered in England registered number LP014109, which will hold and manage JLIFs investments.
PPP Public private partnerships PPPs are arrangements typied by joint working between the public and private sector.
In the broadest sense, PPPs can cover all types of collaboration across the interface between the public and private sectors to deliver policies, services and infrastructure.
Where delivery of public services involves private sector investment in infrastructure, the most common form of PPP is the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
Portfolio The 62 assets in which JLIF had a shareholding as at 31 December 2016.
Portfolio Value The sum of all of the individual assets net present values NPV.
Each assets NPV is calculated by discounting the future cash ows entitled to be received by JLIF, as shareholder, to the 31 December 2016.
Project Entity means a special purpose entity including any company, partnership or trust formed to undertake an infrastructure project or projects or provide infrastructure services.
Prospectus The Prospectus dated September 2013.
The Prospectus can be found at www.
Special Purpose Vehicle SPV A company that is used to facilitate a PPP contract between the public and private sector.
A company is incorporated and shareholders invest equity capital and a subordinated debt into the company.
The company enters into nancing arrangements with senior lenders or bond providers to finance the development of the asset.
The company contracts with the public-sector to design, build, finance and operate an asset.
It enters into subcontracts with contractors and operating companies to carry out the required works and services.
Total Assets of the Group means the Fair Value of the investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. which includes the Portfolio Value and the fair value of the intermediate holding companies the Companys cash the Companys debtors other receivables of the Company.
