OTHER INFORMATION Glossary Ad valorem fees Assets under administration AUA Ongoing management fees earned on assets under Assets administered by Legal & General which are beneficially management, overlay assets and advisory assets as owned by clients and are therefore not reported on the defined below.
Services provided in respect of assets under administration are of an administrative nature, Adjusted earnings per share including safekeeping, collecting investment income, settling Calculated by dividing profit after tax from continuing purchase and sales transactions and record keeping.
operations, attributable to equity holders of the company, excluding recognised gains and losses associated with held Assets under management AUM for sale and completed business disposals, by the weighted The total amount of money investors have trusted to our fund average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, managers to invest across our investment products i. e. these excluding employee scheme treasury shares.
Excluding the are funds which are managed by our fund managers on behalf impact of anticipated and completed disposals provides an of investors.
indication of the earnings per share from ongoing operations.
Backbook acquisition Adjusted return on equity New business transacted with an insurance company which ROE measures the return earned by shareholders on allows the business to continue to utilise solvency II transitional shareholder capital retained within the business.
Adjusted measures associated with the business.
ROE is calculated as IFRS profit after tax divided by average Bundled DC solution IFRS shareholders funds excluding recognised gains and Where investment and administration services are provided to a losses associated with held for sale and completed business scheme by the same service provider.
Excluding the impact of anticipated and completed and administration costs are passed onto the scheme members.
disposals provides an indication of the return on equity from ongoing operations.
Credit rating A measure of the ability of an individual, organisation or country Advisory assets to repay debt.
The highest rating is usually AAA, and the lowest These are assets on which Global Index Advisors GIA provide D. Ratings are usually issued by a credit rating agency e. g. advisory services.
Advisory assets are beneficially owned by Moodys or Standard & Poors or credit bureau.
GIAs clients and all investment decisions pertaining to these assets are also made by the clients.
These are different from Defined benefit pension scheme DB scheme Assets under Management AUM defined below.
A type of pension plan in which an employer sponsor promises a specified monthly benefit on retirement that is predetermined Alternative performance measures APMs by a formula based on the employees earnings history, tenure An alternative performance measure is a financial measure of service and age, rather than depending directly on individual of historic or future financial performance, financial position, investment returns.
or cash flows, other than a financial measure defined under IFRS or the regulations of Solvency II.
The group uses a range Defined contribution pension scheme DC scheme of these metrics to provide a better understanding of the A type of pension plan where the pension benefits at retirement underlying performance of the group.
Where appropriate, are determined by agreed levels of contributions paid into the reconciliations of alternative performance measures to IFRS fund by the member and employer.
They provide benefits based measures are provided in the groups preliminary results which upon the money held in each individuals plan specifically on are available on the group website.
All APMs defined within behalf of each member.
The amount in each plan at retirement this glossary are marked with an asterisk.
will depend upon the investment returns achieved and on the member and employer contributions.
Annuity A regular payment from an insurance company made for an Derivatives agreed period of time usually up to the death of the recipient in Derivatives are not a separate asset class but are contracts return for either a cash lump sum or a series of premiums which usually giving a commitment or right to buy or sell assets on the policyholder has paid to the insurance company during their specified conditions, for example on a set date in the future working lifetime.
The value of a derivative contract can vary.
Derivatives can generally be used with the aim of enhancing the overall investment returns of a fund by taking on an increased risk, or they can be used with the aim of reducing the amount of risk to which a fund is exposed.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 237 OTHER INFORMATION Direct investments Index tracker passive fund Direct investments constitute an agreement with another party Index tracker funds invest in most or all of the same shares, and represent an exposure to untraded and often less liquid and in a similar proportion, as the index they are tracking, for asset classes.
They can include physical assets, bilateral loans example the FTSE 100 index.
Index tracker funds aim to produce and private equity but exclude hedge funds.
a return in line with a particular market or sector, for example, Europe or technology.
They are also sometimes known as Dividend cover tracker funds.
Dividend cover measures how many times over the net cash generated in the year could have paid the full year dividend.
For International financial reporting standards IFRS example, if the dividend cover is 3, this means that the net cash These are accounting guidelines and rules that companies and generation was three times the amount of dividend paid out.
organisations follow when completing financial statements.
They are designed to enable comparable reporting between Earnings per share EPS companies, and they are the standards that all publicly listed EPS is a common financial metric which can be used to groups in the European Union EU are required to use.
measure the profitability and strength of a company over time.
It is the total shareholder profit after tax divided by the number Key performance indicators KPIs of shares outstanding.
EPS uses a weighted average number These are measures by which the development, performance of shares outstanding during the year.
or position of the business can be measured effectively.
The Group Board reviews the KPIs annually and updates them Economic capital surplus and coverage where appropriate.
Economic capital is the capital that an insurer holds internally as a result of its own assessment of risk.
It differs from regulatory LGA capital, which is determined by regulators.
It represents an Legal & General America.
estimate of the amount of economic losses an insurer could LGAS withstand and still remain solvent with a target level of Legal & General Assurance Society.
confidence over a specified time horizon.
Economic capital surplus represents the excess of Eligible Own Funds on an LGC economic basis over the Economic Capital Requirement.
represents the amount of capital available to the company in LGI excess of that required to sustain it in a 1-in-200 year risk event.
Employee engagement index LGIM The Employee engagement index measures the extent to which Legal & General Investment Management.
employees are committed to the goals of Legal & General and are motivated to contribute to the overall success of the LGR company, whilst at the same time working with their manager Legal & General Retirement.
to enhance their own sense of development and well being.
LGR new business Full year dividend Single premiums arising from annuity sales and back-book Full year dividend is the total dividend per share declared for acquisitions including individual annuity and pension risk the year including interim dividend but excluding, where transfer, the volume of lifetime mortgage lending and the appropriate, any special dividend.
notional size of longevity insurance transactions, based on the present value of the fixed leg cash flows discounted at the General insurance combined operating ratio LIBOR curve.
The combined ratio is calculated as the sum of incurred losses and expenses divided by earned premium.
Liability driven investment LDI A form of investing in which the main goal is to gain sufficient Generally accepted accounting principles GAAP assets to meet all liabilities, both current and future.
This form These are a widely accepted collection of guidelines and of investing is most prominent in final salary pension plans, principles, established by accounting standard setters and used whose liabilities can often reach into billions of pounds for the by the accounting community to report financial information.
Gross written premiums GWP Lifetime mortgages GWP is an industry measure of the life insurance premiums An equity release product aimed at people aged 60 years and due and the general insurance premiums underwritten in the over.
It is a mortgage loan secured against the customers reporting period, before any deductions for reinsurance.
Customers do not make any monthly payments and ICAV continue to own and live in their house until they move into long A legal structure for investment funds, based in Ireland and term care or on death.
A no negative equity guarantee exists aimed at European investment funds looking for a simple, such that if the house value on repayment is insufficient to cover tax-efficient investment vehicle.
the outstanding loan, any shortfall is borne by the lender.
238 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GLOSSARY OTHER INFORMATION Longevity Platform Risk associated with increasing life expectancy trends among Online services used by intermediaries and consumers to view policyholders and pensioners.
and administer their investment portfolios.
Platforms usually provide facilities for buying and selling investments including, Mortality rate in the UK products such as Individual Savings Accounts ISAs, Rate of death, influenced by age, gender and health, used in Self-Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs and life insurance pricing and calculating liabilities for future policyholders of life and for viewing an individuals entire portfolio to assess asset and annuity products, which contain mortality risks.
Net release from operations Profit before tax attributable to equity holders PBT Net release from operations is defined as release from Profit attributable to shareholders incorporating actual operations plus new business surplus strain.
Net release from investment returns experienced during the year but before operations was previously referred to as Net Cash and provides the payment of tax.
information on the underlying release of prudent margins from the back book.
Purchased interest in long term business PILTB An estimate of the future profits that will emerge over the New business surplus strain remaining term of life and pensions policies that have been The net impact of writing new business on the IFRS position, acquired via a business combination.
including the benefit cost of acquiring new business and the setting up of reserves, for UK non profit annuities, workplace Release from operations savings, protection and savings, net of tax.
This metric provides The expected release of IFRS surplus from in-force business an understanding of the impact of new contracts on the IFRS for the UK non-profit Insurance and Savings and LGR profit for the year.
businesses, the shareholders share of bonuses on with-profits business, the post-tax operating profit on other UK businesses, Open architecture including the medium term expected investment return on Where a company offers investment products from a range LGC invested assets, and dividends remitted from LGA and of other companies in addition to its own products.
This gives Legal & General Netherlands.
2015 included dividends remitted customers a wider choice of funds to invest in and access from Legal & General France, which was disposed of on to a larger pool of money management professionals.
Release from operations was previously is an open architecture platform.
referred to as operational cash generation.
Operating profit Return on equity ROE Operating profit measures the pre-tax result excluding the ROE measures the return earned by shareholders on impact of investment volatility, economic assumption changes shareholder capital retained within the business.
ROE is and exceptional items.
Operating profit therefore reflects calculated as IFRS profit after tax divided by average IFRS longer-term economic assumptions and changes in insurance shareholders funds.
risks such as mortality and longevity for the groups insurance business and shareholder funds, except for LGA which excludes Risk appetite unrealised investment returns to align with the liability The aggregate level and types of risk a company is willing measurement under US GAAP.
Variances between actual and to assume in its exposures and business activities in order smoothed assumptions are reported below operating profit.
to achieve its business objectives.
Exceptional income and expenses which arise outside the SCR coverage ratio normal course of business in the period, such as merger and The eligible own funds on a regulatory basis divided by the acquisition and start-up costs are excluded from operating profit.
This represents the number Overlay assets of times the SCR is covered by eligible own funds.
Overlay assets are derivative assets that are managed SCR coverage ratio proforma basis alongside the physical assets held by LGIM.
These instruments The proforma basis solvency II coverage incorporates the include interest rate swaps, inflation swaps, equity futures and estimated impacts of a recalculation of the Transitional Measures options.
These are typically used to hedge risks associated with for Technical Provisions recalculated based on end 2016 pension scheme assets during the derisking stage of the economic conditions, changes during 2016 to the Internal pension life cycle.
Model and Matching Adjustment and managements updated Pension risk transfer PRT Solvency I basis.
The proforma basis does not reflect the PRT represents bulk annuities bought by entities that run final regulatory capital position as at 31 December 2016.
This will salary pension schemes to reduce their responsibilities by be made public in May 2017. closing the schemes to new members and passing the assets and obligations to insurance providers.
GLOSSARY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 239 OTHER INFORMATION SCR coverage ratio shareholder view basis In order to represent a shareholder view of group solvency position, the capital requirement in relation to the ring-fenced LGAS With-Profits fund and our defined benefit pension schemes is excluded from both Eligible Own funds and the SCR in the calculation of the coverage ratio.
The shareholder view basis does not reflect the regulatory capital position as at 31 December 2016.
This will be made public in May 2017.
Single premiums Single premiums arise on the sale of new contracts where the terms of the policy do not anticipate more than one premium being paid over its lifetime, such as in individual and bulk annuity deals.
Solvency II Taking effect from 1 January 2016, the Solvency II regulatory regime is a harmonised prudential framework for insurance firms in the EEA.
This single market approach is based on economic principles that measure assets and liabilities to appropriately align insurers risk with the capital they hold to safeguard policyholder.
Solvency II surplus The excess of Eligible Own Funds on a regulatory basis over the Solvency Capital Requirement.
This represents the amount of capital available to the company in excess of that required to sustain it in a 1-in-200 year risk event.
Total shareholder return TSR TSR is a measure used to compare the performance of different companies stocks and shares over time.
It combines the share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder.
With-profits funds Individually identifiable portfolios where policyholders have a contractual right to receive additional benefits based on factors such as the performance of a pool of assets held within the fund, as a supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
An insurer may either have discretion as to the timing of the allocation of those benefits to participating policyholders or may have discretion as to the timing and the amount of the additional benefits.
Yield A measure of the income received from an investment compared to the price paid for the investment.
It is usually expressed as a percentage.
240 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GLOSSARY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 WATCH THE VIDEO Were investing in jobs, homes and urban regeneration, in major UK cities.
com 2016fastread Cardiff Central Square Our investment in the 400 million Cardiff Central Square urban regeneration scheme illustrates our response to the Providing Todays Capital growth driver.
This overall regeneration scheme is creating over 10,000 new jobs.
Registered office: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA T 020 3124 2000 F 020 3124 2500 Legal & General Group Plc is a holding company, subsidiary undertakings of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and or Prudential Regulation Authority, as appropriate.
com Designed and produced byAddison Group addison-group.
net Printed on Amadeus 50% Recycled Silk and Amadeus 100% Recycled Offset papers.
Both papers are independently certified according to the rules of the Forestry Stewardship Council FSC.
Both manufacturing mills hold the ISO14001 environmental certification and the EU Eco-label EMAS.
