OTHER INFORMATION Shareholder information Annual general meeting To register for the Share Portal just visit www.
The 2017 AGM will be held on Thursday, 25 May 2017 at 11am com.
All you need is your Investor Code, which can be found at The Honourable Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, on your share certificate or dividend confirmation.
The AGM provides the Board with the Customer support centre opportunity to meet shareholders.
The Board regards the AGM Alternatively, you can contact Capitas Customer Support Centre as an important opportunity to communicate directly with private which is available to answer any queries you have in relation to investors.
The Notice of Meeting and all other details for the AGM your shareholding: are available at www.
By phone 0371 402 3341 Dividend information By email landgshares@capita.
co. uk Dividend per share By post Capita Asset Services, The Registry, This year the directors are recommending the payment of a final 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU dividend of 10.35 pence per share.
If you add this to your interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share, the total dividend recommended Sign up to electronic communications for 2016 will be 14.35 pence per share 2015: 13.40 pence per Help us save paper and get your shareholder information share.
The key dates for the payment of dividends are set out in quickly and securely by signing up to receive your shareholder the important dates section on page 236. communications by email.
Registering for electronic communications is very straightforward.
All you need is your Internet Investor Code, which can be found on your share certificate or Information about the company, including details of dividend confirmation.
the current share price, is available on the website, www.
Corporate sponsored nominee The corporate sponsored nominee allows you to hold shares Investor relations in the company without the need for a share certificate and Private investors should contact the Registrar with any queries.
enables you to benefit from shorter market settlement periods.
Institutional investors can contact the investor relations team Individual shareholders hold their Legal & General shares in a by email: investor.
nominee holding registered in the name of Capita IRG Trustees Financial reports Nominees Limited.
To join or obtain further information, contact The companys financial reports are available on the website.
You will be sent a booklet outlining the terms and The annual report and accounts are sent to those shareholders conditions under which your shares will be held.
who have elected to receive paper copies.
Alternatively, Dividend payment options shareholders may elect to receive notification by email by Re-invest your dividends registering on www.
If you receive more Capitas Dividend Re-investment Plan offers a convenient way than one copy of our communications, it could be because for shareholders to build up their shareholding by using dividend you have more than one record on the share register.
To avoid money to purchase additional shares.
The plan is provided by duplicate mailings, please contact the Registrar, who can Capita Asset Services, a trading name of Capita IRG Trustees arrange for your accounts to be amalgamated.
Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Registrar Conduct Authority.
Capita Asset Services is the Registrar and they offer many For more information and an application pack, please services to make managing your shareholding easier and call 0371 402 3341.
Alternatively you can email more efficient.
Share Portal It is important to remember that the value of shares and income The Share Portal is a secure online site where you can from them can fall as well as rise and you may not recover the manage your shareholding quickly and easily.
You can: amount of money you invest.
Past performance should not be View your holding and get an indicative valuation seen as indicative of future performance.
This arrangement should be considered as part of a diversified portfolio.
Change your address Arrange to have dividends paid into your bank account Arrange to have your dividends paid direct into your bank account Request to receive shareholder communications by The advantages are: email rather than post Your dividend reaches your bank account on the View your dividend payment history payment date Make dividend payment choices It is more secure cheques can sometimes get lost Buy and sell shares and access a wealth of stock market in the post news and information You dont have the inconvenience of depositing a cheque Register your proxy voting instruction It helps reduce cheque fraud Download a stock transfer form LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 235 OTHER INFORMATION If you have a UK bank account you can sign up for this service Share fraud warning on the Share Portal by clicking on your dividend options and Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure following the on-screen instructions or by contacting the investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out Customer Support Centre.
to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are Choose to receive your next dividend in your local currency promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably If you live outside the UK, Capita has partnered with Deutsche lose your money.
Bank to provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can How to avoid share fraud choose to receive payment directly into your local bank account Have you been: or, alternatively, you can be sent a currency draft.
contacted out of the blue: You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal by clicking promised tempting returns and told the investment is safe: on your dividend options and following the on-screen called repeatedly: or instructions or by contacting the Customer Support Centre.
told the offer is only available for a limited time?
For further information contact Capita If so, you might have been contacted by fraudsters.
Reject cold calls By e-mail ips@capita.
co. uk If y ouve been cold called with an offer to buy or sell shares, Buy and sell shares chances are its a high risk investment or a scam.
You should A simple and competitively priced service to buy and sell treat the call with extreme caution.
The safest thing to do is shares is provided by Capita Asset Services.
There is no need to hang up.
to pre-register and there are no complicated application forms 2.
Check the firm on the FS register at fca.
com you can also access a T he Financial Services Register is a public record of all the wealth of stock market news and information free of charge.
firms and individuals in the financial services industry that For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, are regulated by the FCA.
Get impartial advice This is not a recommendation to buy and sell shares and this T hink about getting impartial financial advice before you hand service may not be suitable for all shareholders.
The price of over any money.
Seek advice from someone unconnected to shares can go down as well as up and you are not guaranteed the firm that has approached you.
to get back the amount you originally invested.
Terms, conditions and risks apply.
If you suspect that you have been approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at Capita Asset Services is a trading name of Capita IRG Trustees fca.
uk scamsmart where you can find out more about Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline Conduct Authority.
This service is only available to private on 0800 111 6768. shareholders resident in the European Economic Area, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
If you have lost money to investment fraud, you should report it to Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online at Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 9am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be England and Wales.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Calls from outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 8am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in Compensation Scheme.
General information Important dates: Capital gains tax: for the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax, the market value on 31 March 1982 of each share was 27 April 2017 Ex-dividend date final dividend 7.996 pence after adjusting for the 1986 capitalisation issue and the 1996 and 1999 sub-divisions, but not reflecting any rights 19 May 2017 Last day for DRIP elections taken up under the 2002 rights issue.
Close company provisions: The company is not a close 25 May 2017 Annual General Meeting company within the terms of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
8 June 2017 Payment of final dividend for 2016 Registered office: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA.
to members registered on 28 April 2017 Registered in England and Wales, No.
Shareholder offer line: For details of shareholder offers on 9 August 2017 Half year results 2017 Legal & General products, call 0800 107 6830.
17 August 2017 Ex-dividend date interim dividend 21 September 2017 Payment of interim dividend for 2017 to members registered on 18 August 2017 236 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
