Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Alternative performance measures As described on page 37, the Group analyses its performance on an underlying basis.
The Group also calculates a number of metrics that are used throughout the banking and insurance industries on an underlying basis as these provide management with a relevant and consistent view of these measures from period to period.
A description of the Groups alternative performance measures and their calculation is set out below.
Asset quality ratio The underlying impairment charge for the period on an annualised basis in respect of loans and advances to customers after releases and write-backs expressed as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers.
Banking net interest margin Banking net interest income on customer and product balances in the banking businesses as a percentage of average banking gross interest-earning assets.
Cost:income ratio Operating costs as a percentage of total income net of insurance claims less operating lease depreciation calculated on an underlying basis.
Gross asset quality ratio The underlying impairment charge for the period on an annualised basis in respect of loans and advances to customers before releases and write-backs expressed as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers.
Impaired loans as a percentage of Impaired loans and advances to customers adjusted to exclude Retail and Consumer Finance loans in recoveries expressed advances as a percentage of closing gross loans and advances to customers.
Loan to deposit ratio The ratio of loans and advances to customers net of allowance for impairment losses and excluding reverse repurchase agreements divided by customer deposits excluding repurchase agreements.
Operating jaws The difference between the period on period percentage change in total income net of insurance claims less operating lease depreciation and the period on period change in operating costs calculated on an underlying basis.
Present value of new business premium The total single premium sales received in the period on an annualised basis plus the discounted value of premiums expected to be received over the term of the new regular premium contracts.
Required equity The amount of shareholders equity and non-controlling interests required to achieve a common equity tier 1 ratio of 12.0 per cent after allowing for regulatory adjustments and deductions.
Return on assets Underlying profit before tax divided by average total assets.
Return on required equity Statutory profit after tax adjusted to reflect the notional earnings on any excess or shortfall in equity less the post-tax profit attributable to other equity holders, divided by the average required equity for the period.
Return on risk-weighted assets Underlying profit before tax divided by average risk-weighted assets.
Return on tangible equity Statutory profit after tax adjusted to add back amortisation of intangible assets, after tax, profit attributable to non-controlling interests and other equity holders divided by average tangible net assets.
Tangible net assets per share Net assets excluding intangible assets such as goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
Underlying profit Statutory profit adjusted for certain items as detailed in the Basis of Preparation.
Underlying return on required equity Underlying profit after tax at the standard UK corporation tax rate adjusted to reflect the banking tax surcharge and the notional earnings on any excess or shortfall in equity less the post-tax profit attributable to other equity holders divided bythe average required equity for the period.
Underlying return on tangible equity Underlying profit after tax at the standard UK corporation tax rate adjusted to add back amortisation of intangible assets, after tax, profit attributable to non-controlling interests and other equity holders, divided by average tangible net assets.
Glossary Arrears A customer is in arrears when they are behind in fulfilling their obligations with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue.
Such a customer is also said to be in a state of delinquency and the entire outstanding balance is delinquent.
Asset quality ratio The impairment charge for the year in respect of loans and advances to customers expressed as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers.
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards.
Basel III The capital reforms and introduction of a global liquidity standard proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in 2010 and due to be phased in, through CRDIV, from 1January2014 onward.
Basis point One hundredth of a per cent 0.01 per cent.
Used in quoting movements in interest rates oryields on securities.
Central counterparty CCP An institution mediating between the buyer and seller in a financial transaction, such as a derivative contract or repurchase agreement.
Where a CCP is used, a single bilateral contract between the buyer and the seller is replaced with two contracts, one between the buyer and the CCP and one between the CCPseller.
Collectively assessed loan impairment A provision established following an impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans, such as provision credit card receivables and personal loans, that are not considered individually significant and for loan losses that have been incurred but not separately identified at the balance sheet date.
Collective unidentified A provision held for loan losses that have been incurred but not separately identified at the impairment provision balance sheet date.
Commercial paper Commercial paper is an unsecured promissory note issued to finance short-term credit needs.
It specifies the face amount paid to investors on the maturity date.
Commercial paper can be issued as an unsecured obligation of the Group or, for example when issued by the Groups conduits, as an asset-backed obligation in such case it is referred to as asset-backed commercial paper.
Commercial paper is usually issued for periods from as little as a week up to nine months.
Commercial Real Estate Includes office buildings, industrial property, medical centres, hotels, malls, retail stores, shopping centres, farm land, multifamily housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial properties.
Common equity tier 1 capital CET1 The highest quality form of regulatory capital under CRD IV that comprises common shares issued and related share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, less specified regulatory adjustments.
Conduits A financial vehicle that holds asset-backed securities which are financed with short-term deposits generally commercial paper that use the asset-backed securities as collateral.
The conduit will often have a liquidity line provided by a bank that it can draw down on in the event that it is unable to issue funding to the market.
Contractual maturities Contractual maturity refers to the final payment date of a loan or other financial instrument, at which point allthe remaining outstanding principal will be repaid and interest is due to be paid.
289 Other information Glossary continued Coverage ratio Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans.
CRD IV On 27 June 2013, the European Commission published, through the Official Journal of the EuropeanUnion, its legislation for a Capital Requirements Directive CRD and Capital Requirements Regulation CRR, which together form the CRD IV package.
Amendments published on 30November 2013 were made to the Regulation.
The package implements the Basel III reforms in addition to the inclusion of new proposals on sanctions for non-compliance with prudential rules, corporate governance and remuneration.
CRDIV rules apply from 1 January 2014 onwards, with certain requirements set to be phased in.
Credit default swap A credit default swap is a type of credit derivative.
It is an arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
The entity selling protection receives premium or interestrelated payments in return for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event.
Credit events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
Credit derivatives A credit derivative is a financial instrument that derives its value from the credit rating of an underlying instrument carrying the credit risk of the issuing entity.
The principal type of credit derivatives are credit default swaps, which are used by the Group as part of its trading activity and to manage its own exposure to credit risk.
Credit valuation adjustments These are adjustments to the fair values of derivative assets to reflect the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Further details are given in note 49.
Debt restructuring This is when the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements are changed.
This is often done in order to improve cash flow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
It can involve altering the repayment schedule as well as reducing the debt or interest charged on the loan.
Debt securities Debt securities are assets held by the Group representing certificates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public bodies orother undertakings, excluding those issued by Central Banks.
Embedded equity An embedded equity conversion feature is a derivative contained within the terms and conditions of a debt instrument that conversion feature enables or requires the instrument to be converted into equity under a particular set of circumstances.
The Groups Enhanced Capital Notes ECNs contain such a feature whereby these notes convert to ordinary shares in the event that the consolidated core tier 1 ratio of the Group falls below5percent.
Encumbered assets Assets recognised on the Groups balance sheet which have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result are assets which are unavailable to the Group to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
Enhanced Capital Notes ECNs The Groups ECNs are subordinated notes issued by the Group that contained an embedded equity conversion feature.
Expected loss This is the amount of loss that can be expected by the Group calculated in accordance with PRA rules.
In broad terms it is calculated by multiplying the Default Frequency by the Loss Given Default by the Exposure atDefault.
Exposure at default An estimate of the amount expected to be owed by a customer at the time of the customers default.
Fair value adjustment Fair value adjustments arise on acquisition when assets and liabilities are acquired at fair values that are different from the carrying values in the acquired company.
In respect of the Groups acquisition of HBOS the principal adjustments were write-downs in respect of loans and advances to customers and debt issued.
Forbearance Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to an obligors .
Full time equivalent A full time employee works a standard five day week.
The hours or days worked by part time employees are measured against this standard and accumulated along with the number of full time employees and counted as full time equivalents.
This is a more consistent measure of the amount of time worked than employee numbers which will fluctuate as the mix of part-time and full-time employees changes.
Funded unfunded exposures Exposures where the notional amount of the transaction is either funded or unfunded.
Funding risk The risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
Impaired loans Impaired loans are loans where the Group does not expect to collect all the contractual cash flows or to collect them when they are contractually due.
Impairment allowances Impairment allowances are a provision held on the balance sheet as a result of the raising of a charge against profit for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
An impairment allowance may either be individual orcollective.
Impairment losses An impairment loss is the reduction in value that arises following an impairment review of an asset that determines that the assets value is lower than its carrying value.
For impaired financial assets measured at amortised cost, impairment losses are the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses can be difficult to assess and the critical accounting estimates and judgements in note3 detail the key assessments made when determining impairment losses.
Individually collectively assessed Impairment is measured individually for assets that are individually significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are available.
Individually assessed loan impairment Impairment loss provisions for individually significant impaired loans are assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into provisions account the financial condition of the counterparty, any guarantor and the realisable value of any collateral held.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk in arises from the different repricing characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions of the Group.
Interest rate risk arises predominantly from the mismatch between interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, but also to the investment term of capital and reserves, and the need to minimise incomevolatility.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment The Groups own assessment, based on Basel II requirements, of the levels of capital that it needs to hold in respect of its Process ICAAP regulatory capital requirements for credit, market and operational risks and for other risks including stress events as they apply on a solo level and on a consolidated level.
Internal Ratings-Based A methodology of estimating the credit risk within a portfolio by utilising internal risk parameters to calculatecredit risk approach IRB regulatory capital requirements.
There are two approaches to IRB: Foundation IRB and Advanced IRB.
Investment grade This refers to the highest range of credit ratings, from AAA to BBB as measured by external credit ratingagencies.
ISDA International Swaps A standardised contract developed by the ISDA which is used as an umbrella contract for bilateral derivativecontracts.
and Derivatives Association master agreement Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR The ratio of the stock of high quality liquid assets to expected net cash outflows over the following 30days.
High quality liquid assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress and ideally, be central bank eligible.
Liquidity risk The risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
2 29 90 0 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Loan-to-value ratio LTV The loan-to-value ratio is a mathematical calculation which expresses the amount of a mortgage balance outstanding as a percentage of the total appraised value of the property.
Loans past due Loans are past due when a counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Loss emergence period The loss emergence period is the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being specifically identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate impairment allowance.
Loss Given Default The estimated loss that will arise if a customer defaults.
It is calculated after taking account of credit risk mitigation and includes the cost of recovery.
Master netting agreement An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
Medium Term Notes Medium term notes are a form of corporate borrowing covering maturity periods ranging from nine months to 30 years.
Details of the notes issued under the Groups medium term notes programmes are given in note31.
Negative equity mortgages Negative equity occurs when the value of the property purchased using the mortgage is below the balance outstanding on the loan.
Negative equity is the value of the asset less the outstanding balance on the loan.
Net asset value per ordinary share Shareholders equity divided by the number of ordinary shares and limited voting ordinary shares in issue, adjusted to exclude shares held under certain employee share ownership plans.
Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over a one year time horizon, assuming a stressed scenario.
The ratio is required to be over 100% with effect from 2018.
Available stable funding would include such items as equity capital, preferred stock with a maturity of over 1 year, or liabilities with a maturity of over 1 year.
Net interest income The difference between interest received on assets and interest paid on liabilities.
Net interest margin Net interest margin is net interest income as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.
Over-the-counter derivatives Over-the-counter derivatives are derivatives for which the terms and conditions can be freely negotiated by the counterparties involved, unlike exchange traded derivatives which have standardised terms.
Pre-positioned and encumbered assets Assets which have been delivered to central banks to facilitate future drawdowns under central bank funding schemes held with central banks and assets which are encumbered under such schemes.
Probability of default The likelihood that a customer will default on their obligation within the next year.
Regulatory capital The amount of capital that the Group holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA for the consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group companies.
Repurchase agreements Short-term funding agreements which allow a borrower to sell a financial asset, such as ABS or Government bonds as or repos collateral for cash.
As part of the agreement the borrower agrees to repurchase the security at some later date, usually less than 30 days, repaying the proceeds of the loan.
Risk appetite The amount and type of risk that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
Risk-weighted assets A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord as implemented by the PRA.
Securitisation Securitisation is a process by which a group of assets, usually loans, are aggregated into a pool, which is used to back the issuance of new securities.
Sovereign exposures Exposures to central governments and central government departments, central banks and entities owned or guaranteed by the aforementioned.
Specialist mortgages Specialist mortgages include those mortgage loans provided to customers who have self-certified their income normally as a consequence of being self-employed or who are otherwise regarded as a sub-prime credit risk.
New mortgage lending of this type has not been offered by the Group since early 2009.
Standardised Approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit Assessment Institutions ECAI ratings of obligors where available and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational risk capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined percentage charge to the gross income of specified business lines.
Stress testing Stress and scenario testing is the term used to describe techniques where plausible events are considered as vulnerabilities to ascertain how this will impact the capital resources which are required to be held.
Structured entities SEs SEs are entities that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in determining who controls the entity, such as when voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
SEs often have specific restrictions around their ongoing activities and are created to accomplish a narrow and well-defined objective.
Sub-investment grade This refers to credit ratings issued by external credit rating agencies that are below BBB grade or itsequivalent.
Subordinated liabilities Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
Details of the Groups subordinated liabilities are set out in note39.
Trading book Positions in financial instruments and commodities held for trading purposes or to hedge other elements of the tradingbook.
Unencumbered assets readily Assets regarded by the Group to be readily realisable in the normal course of business, to secure funding, meet collateral realisable needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, and are not subject to any restrictions on their use for these purposes.
Unencumbered assets other Assets where there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential realisable future funding requirements, but are not readily realisable in the normal course of business in their current form.
Unencumbered assets cannot be used Assets that have not been pledged but which the Group has assessed could not be pledged and therefore could not be used to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
Value-at-Risk Value-at-Risk is an estimate of the potential loss in earnings which might arise from market movements under normal market conditions, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day.
It is measured to specified level of confidence, often 95percent or 99percent.
Write downs The depreciation or lowering of the value of an asset in the books to reflect a decline in their value, or expected cash flows.
291 Other information Glossary continued Disclosures arising from Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF recommendations The 32 recommendations listed below are made in the report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks issued by the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force of the Financial Stability Board on 29 October 2012.
The Groups Pillar 3 Report can be found at www.
com EDTF Recommendations summarised Page General commentary 1 Present all related risk information together or provide an index or an aid to navigation.
115 2 Define the banks risk terminology and risk measures and present key parameter values used.
116-169 3 Describe and discuss top and emerging risks.
28-31, 118 4 Outline plans to meet each new key regulatory ratio.
155, 160 Risk Governance and risk management strategies business model 5 Summarise prominently the banks risk management organisation, processes and key functions.
121-122 6 Describe risk culture and how procedures and strategies are applied to support the culture.
116 7 Describe the key risks that arise from the banks business models and activities, the banks risk appetite in the context 116-117, 123-169 of its business models and how the bank manages such risks.
8 Describe the use of stress testing within the banks risk governance and capital frameworks.
119 Capital adequacy and risk-weighted assets 9 Pillar 1 capital requirements and the application of counter-cyclical and capital conservation buffers or the minimum 159 internal ratio established by management.
10 Main components of capital and a reconciliation of the accounting balance sheet to the regulatory balance sheet.
162, Pillar 3 11 Flow statement of movements since the prior reporting date in regulatory capital, including changes in common equity 163 tier 1, tier 1 and tier 2 capital.
12 Discuss capital planning, including a description of managements view of the required or targeted level of capital and 160-161 how this will be established.
13 Explain how risk-weighted assets RWAs relate to business activities and related risks.
117, 164-165, Pillar 3 14 Present a table showing the capital requirements for each method used for calculating RWAs for each Basel asset class.
Pillar 3 15 Tabulate credit risk for Basel asset classes.
Pillar 3 16 Present a flow statement that reconciles movements in RWAs for the period for each RWA risk type.
164 17 Provide narrative putting Basel Pillar 3 back-testing requirements into context.
Pillar 3 Liquidity 18 Describe how the bank manages its potential liquidity needs.
154-155, 157 Funding 19 Tabulate encumbered and unencumbered assets by balance sheet categories 158 20 Tabulate consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by remaining contractual maturity 156, 270-272 at the balance sheet date.
21 Discuss the banks funding strategy, including key sources and any funding concentrations.
154-156 Market risk 22 Describe linkages between line items in the balance sheet with positions included in the traded 146 and non-traded market risk disclosures.
23 Provide breakdowns of significant trading and non trading market risk factors.
146-151 24 Describe significant market risk measurement model limitations, assumptions and validation procedures.
146-151, Pillar 3 25 Describe the primary risk management techniques employed to measure and assess the risk of loss beyond 146-151, Pillar 3 reported risk measures and parameters, such as VaR, earnings or economic value scenario results.
Credit risk 26 Describe the banks credit risk profile, including any significant credit risk concentrations.
Detailing aggregate credit risk 124-144, Pillar 3 exposures that reconciles to the balance sheet, including detailed tables for both retail and corporate portfolios.
27 Describe the policies for identifying impaired or non-performing loans, defining impaired or non-performing, 124-129, 189-190 restructured and  cured loans as well as explanations of loan forbearance policies.
28 A reconciliation of the opening and closing balances of non-performing or impaired loans in the period and the 130, 211 allowance for loan losses.
29 Provide analysis of the banks counterparty credit risk that arises from its derivatives transactions.
131, 267 30 Discuss credit risk mitigation, including collateral held for all sources of credit risk.
124-126 Other 31 Describe other risk types and discuss how each one is identified, governed, measured and managed.
145, 152-153, 166-169 32 Discuss publicly known risk events related to other risks.
