London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies Investments in subsidiaries shares, loans and other contributions are recognised The Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in at cost.
These are reviewed for impairment when events indicate the carrying accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS amount may not be recoverable and are accounted for in the Companys financial Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European statements at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Recent accounting developments The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the International The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC and have been adopted in these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently financial statements: applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 12, The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as Disclosure of interests in other entities and IAS 28, Associates and joint modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities held at fair value and on the ventures on applying the consolidated exception for investment entities: basis of the Groups accounting policies.
Amendments to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on accounting for acquisitions of interest in joint operations: The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income statement.
This enables the Group to aid the readers understanding of its results Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38, by presenting profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangible Intangible assets, on Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation assets and non-recurring items.
This is the profit measure used to calculate and Amortisation: adjusted earnings per share and is considered to be the most appropriate as it Amendments to IAS 27, Separate financial statements on equity method in best reflects the Groups underlying, recurring cash earnings and is the primary separate financial statements: measure of performance monitored by the Groups Executive Committee.
Profit before acquisition amortisation and non-recurring items is reconciled to profit Proposed amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements before taxation on the face of the income statement.
disclosure initiative: and Annual Improvements 2012-2014.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the The adoption of these standards did not have a material impact on these Company and its subsidiaries with all inter-company balances and transactions consolidated financial statements.
eliminated, together with the Groups attributable share of the results of associates.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the income statement The following standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB and IFRIC, up to, or from, the date that control passes.
Control is achieved when the Group is but have not been adopted either because they were not endorsed by the EU at exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee 31 December 2016 or they are not yet mandatory and the Group has not chosen and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the above future standards, amendments and interpretations is still under review, and where As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys income appropriate, a description of the impact of certain standards and amendments statement has not been included in these financial statements.
is provided below: The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The Effective date International accounting standards and interpretations cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts 1 January 2016 exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Upon completion of Amendment to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows on changes in 1 January 2017 liabilities arising from financing activities the Groups fair value exercise, comparatives are revised up to 12 months after the Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes on recognition of deferred 1 January 2017 acquisition date, for the final fair value adjustments.
Further details are provided in tax assets for unrealised losses Note 31.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based payment on classification 1 January 2018 into line with those of the Group.
and measurement of share-based payment transactions The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests Amendment to IFRS 4, Insurance contracts regarding the 1 January 2018 implementation of IFRS 9, Financial instruments through the economic entity model.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are IFRS 9, Financial instruments on classification and 1 January 2018 recognised in equity.
Where the non-controlling interest has an option to dispose of measurement and amendments regarding general hedge their holding to the Group, then these costs are recognised at the fair value of the accounting option at the balance sheet date.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018 A disposal group qualifies as a discontinued operation if it is a component of an IFRS 16, Leases 1 January 2019 entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers introduces new accounting a represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of principles for revenue recognition for all types of sales of goods or services.
It is operations: effective from 1 January 2018 and as a result the Group will adopt IFRS 15 in both the interim and annual 2018 financial statements.
IFRS 15 provides a single, b is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of principles-based five-step model to be applied to all sales contracts, based on the business or geographic area of operations: or transfer of control of goods and services to customers, and replaces the separate models for goods, services and construction contracts currently included in IAS 11 c is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Construction Contracts and IAS 18 Revenue.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations Based on the provisional assessment, the key areas of judgement expected on and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued initial adoption of IFRS 15 are in relation to: i the timing of revenue recognition operations in the income statement.
Comparatives are also re-presented to for services provided: ii the measurement of variable consideration which reclassify disposed businesses or held for sale businesses as discontinued changes against to factors outside of the Groups control: and iii how operations.
performance obligations are satisfied in contracts providing several services to customers.
The Group will continue to assess the impact during 2017.
118 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 Pension costs and will simplify the classification of financial assets for measurement purposes.
The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The implementation of IFRS 9 is not currently expected to have a significant For the defined benefit schemes the service cost, representing benefits accruing impact on the financial statements: however, the Group will finalise its assessment to employees, is included as an operating expense.
The interest cost and expected of the new standard in 2017. return on plan assets is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset at the start of each annual reporting period.
Actuarial IFRS 16 Leases is effective for the year ended 31 December 2019 not yet gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, changes in actuarial endorsed by the EU and will require all leases to be recognised on the balance assumptions or differences between actual and expected returns on assets are sheet.
Currently, IAS 17 Leases only requires leases categorised as finance leases recognised at each period end net of tax in the statement of comprehensive to be recognised on the balance sheet, with leases categorised as operating leases income.
The net asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the not recognised.
In broad terms, the impact will be to recognise a lease liability and difference between the present value of pension obligations and the fair value of corresponding asset for the operating lease commitments set out in note 32. scheme assets.
For defined contribution schemes, the expense is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Accounting policies Income Statement Share based compensation Revenue The Group operates a number of equity settled share based compensation plans Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for employees.
The charge to the income statement is determined by the fair and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal value of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of grant and recognised course of business, net of discounts, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
over the relevant vesting period.
Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply is provided.
The Foreign currencies sources of revenue are: The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys presentation and functional currency.
a Maintenance contracts, membership and other fees revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which the fee relates: Foreign currency transactions are converted into the functional currency using the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains or losses b Admission fees revenue is recognised at the time of admission to trading: resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation c Clearing fee income and rebates, together with other fee income and net at year-end rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign settlement fees, are recognised on a transaction by transaction basis in currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences on accordance with the Groups fee scales: non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of their fair value gain or loss.
Exceptions to this are where the d Royalties revenue is recognised at the date at which they are earned or non-monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation or are measurable with certainty: designated as hedges of a net investment, or as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange e IT products where there is no significant service obligation the revenue is differences are initially recognised in equity.
recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the software or hardware by the The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional customer, in other circumstances revenue is recognised on provision of currency different from the presentation currency are converted into the contracted services: presentation currency as follows: f IT solutions where software is sold requiring significant modification, a assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible assets and fair integration or customisation, the consideration is allocated between the value adjustments are converted at the closing balance sheet rate: different elements on a fair value basis.
Revenue is recognised using a percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is determined by b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income statement reference to the costs incurred to date as a proportion of the total estimated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transaction: and costs or the services performed to date as a percentage of total services to be c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component performed.
Provision is made for all foreseeable future losses in the period in of equity.
which they are identified: On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net g Software and Licence fees revenue is recognised when the performance investment in foreign operations, and of borrowing and other currency under the contract has occurred and the revenue has been earned: and instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders h Other all other revenue is recognised in the month in which the service is equity.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange provided.
The Borsa Italiana Group defers some of the income received from differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement cash trading and FTSE MIB futures trading and clearing.
This deferral results in as part of the gain or loss on sale.
revenues being recognised at the average price of transactions forecast for the full year, as pricing levels reduce during the year when incremental volume Finance income and expense targets are achieved.
Finance income and expense comprises interest earned on cash deposited with financial counterparties and interest paid on borrowings which reflect the agreed The main source of revenue is through fees.
market-based or contractual rate for each transaction undertaken during the Cost of sales financial period, and calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Cost of sales comprises data and licence fees, data feed costs, expenses incurred Recurring fees and charges levied on committed bank facilities and the payments in respect of revenue share arrangements and costs incurred in the MillenniumIT and cash management transactions and services provided by the Groups banks business that are directly attributable to the construction and delivery of are charged to the income statement as accrued.
Credit facility arrangement fees customers goods or services, and any other costs linked and directly incurred to are capitalised and then amortised back to the income statement over the term of generate revenues and provide services to customers.
the facility subject to projected utilisation.
Fees and charges are included within other finance costs.
Nonrecurring items Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments include the movement in the non-recurring are classified as non-recurring items on the face of the income market valuations of derivative instruments held as fair value hedges.
statement within their relevant category.
The separate reporting of these items together with amortisation of purchased intangible assets helps give an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
119 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued Balance Sheet Third party software costs for the development and implementation of systems Property, plant and equipment which enhance the services provided by the Group are capitalised and amortised Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements at cost over their estimated useful economic lives of three to five years.
less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs can be Freehold buildings, fixed plant and plant and equipment are stated at cost and reliably measured, the product or process is technically and commercially are depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis over the estimated useful feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient economic lives of the assets which are as follows: resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset.
The assets are a Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years: recorded at cost including labour, directly attributable costs and any third party expenses, and amortised over their useful economic lives of three to five years.
b Fixed plant 3 to 20 years: and c Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years.
Intangible assets are assessed for any indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Where indicators of impairment for a particular intangible asset are Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and depreciated to identified, a full impairment assessment is performed, with any diminution in residual value over the shorter of the period of the lease or the useful economic life value recognised in the income statement.
When performing any impairment of the asset.
assessment, in addition to considering matters particular to the relevant Group business area, management evaluates the overall value of the asset from the Leases perspective of a market participant.
Accordingly, any reduction in value recorded Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are represents the Groups view of the market fair value of the intangible asset.
retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Current and noncurrent classification Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease.
Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or intended for trade or The Group leases certain plant and equipment where the Group has substantially consumption in, the course of the Groups operating cycle.
All other assets are all the risks and rewards of ownership.
These are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities lease payments.
expected to be settled in the course of the Groups operating cycle and those liabilities due within one year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are Each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge and the liability classified as non-current liabilities.
so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
Plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the Current and deferred taxation useful life of the asset and the lease term.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Intangible assets Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary differences interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation is determined using tax rates that the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has are substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and when the asset is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable against future taxable profits.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain Financial assets and liabilities is recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets excluding clearing business The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets and through profit or loss, available-for-sale and loans and receivables.
These may include brand names, customer relationships, of the Groups financial assets depends on the purpose for which the financial assets licences and software intellectual property, all of which are recorded as intangible were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at assets and held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
These assets are initial recognition.
amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives which are as follows: a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held a C ustomer and supplier relationships two to 25 years material assets are for liquidity purposes, they are initially recognised at fair value and any amortised over a life exceeding 15 years : subsequent changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income b B rands 10 to 25 years material assets are amortised over a life of 25 years : statement.
These assets are financial instruments not designated as hedges.
and b Available-for-sale financial assets c S oftware licenses and intellectual property two to 25 years the majority of Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint ventures, material assets are amortised over a life not exceeding 5 years.
associates and subsidiaries are designated as available-for-sale and are recorded on trade date at fair value plus transaction costs with changes in fair The useful economic lives are based on managements best estimates such as value recognised in equity.
Cumulative fair value gains or losses on an asset attrition rates on customer relationships, product upgrade cycles for software and are recycled through the income statement when the asset is disposed or technology assets, market participant perspective for brands and pace of change impaired.
Where the fair value is not reliably measurable, the investment of regulation for business.
is held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Assets such as shares in clearing and payment transmission operations and long-term equity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are usually classified as available-for-sale.
120 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements c Loans and receivables Accounting treatments of CCP financial assets and liabilities include the following: Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or a Derivatives, trading assets and liabilities determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are These transactions are initially recorded at fair value, and are subsequently included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than re-measured on the basis of the market price of each derivative instrument 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current at the period end.
Since the asset and liability positions of the CCP clearer are assets.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash matched, the same amount is recorded for both the assets and liabilities and and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
no net fair value gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash-flows from the b Receivables for and liabilities under repurchase transactions assets has expired, or has been transferred, and the Group has transferred These represent repurchase transactions repos by clearing members using substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
the Groups clearing and guarantee service.
They represent the value of transactions already settled spot and not yet settled at term.
These Financial liabilities transactions are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition as either financial liabilities measured at amortised cost, by allocating the yield on the repo pro-rated at fair value through profit or loss or financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Financial over the duration of the contract the coupon accrued in the period and the liabilities at fair value through profit and loss include CCP financial liabilities see difference between the spot and forward prices.
Since the asset and liability below and other non-current liabilities.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost positions for repos are matched, the same amount is recorded for both assets include trade and other payables, borrowings and provisions.
and liabilities and no gain or loss is recorded in the income statement.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at amortised cost are c Other receivables from and payables to clearing members and default funds measured using the effective interest rate method, with gains and losses These comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving from the activities recognised in finance income and expenses respectively.
Financial liabilities of clearing members in derivatives, equities and bond transactions.
They are derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled mainly represent amounts to be received or paid in relation to initial and or expires.
variation margins, option premiums, securities as collateral and default fund contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
They are generally settled Financial assets and liabilities of the central counterparty CCP business on the next day and, accordingly, are not discounted back to current value.
Assets and liabilities of the CCP clearing service relate to subsidiaries that perform Default funds absorb any losses incurred by the Group in the event of clearing the CCP clearing business.
The activities include clearing of financial derivatives, members default where margin collateral is insufficient to cover the equities and bond transactions on regulated markets.
The Group enters into a management and close out of the positions of the defaulting members.
contractual arrangement in respect of each side of the transaction, bears the d Financial assets and liabilities at fair value risk associated with counterparties failing to honour their obligations and, in the These represent quoted equity and bond securities which have already event of a failure to deliver by any counterparty, is required itself to complete the withdrawn from the settlement system but have not yet delivered to the delivery.
Accordingly, the Group must record an asset and a liability on its balance intermediaries who have bought them and securities traded but not yet sheet in respect of each of the sale and purchase sides of each transaction.
settled as part of the CCP function.
These are initially recognised at fair value However, except in respect of failed transactions the Group as a CCP clearer and subsequently re-measured at fair value, based on the market price of each does not bear any price risk and the value of the sale and purchase side of each security.
The difference between the settlement price of each security at trade transaction are the same: consequently, the principal CCP asset and liability date and the market price of that security at the period end is recognised as amounts largely match each other.
The Group has adopted the settlement date a fair value gain or loss in the income statement.
as the reference date for recognising financial assets.
e Held to maturity Income recognised through the CCP clearing business includes net treasury income These are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments earned on margin and default funds, held as part of our risk management process, and fixed maturities which the Group has the intention and ability to hold to and is shown separately from the Group revenues.
Net treasury income is the result maturity.
After initial measurement held to maturity financial investments are of interest earned on cash assets lodged with the clearing house, less interest paid to subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate less the members on their initial margin and default fund contributions.
The amortisation of any premium or discount is included in income has been shown separately on the face of the income statement to interest income.
distinguish this income stream from revenues arising from the Groups other f Cash and cash equivalents restricted activities and provides the reader with a greater understanding of the operating These include amounts received from clearing members to cover initial and activities of the Group.
Where negative interest rates apply, the Group recognises variation margins and default fund contributions as collateral against default interest paid on cash assets as a net treasury expense and interest received on or insolvency and are deposited with banks.
Such amounts are initially clearing members margin as net treasury income.
recognised at fair value and are subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
121 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Cash and cash equivalents Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, short-term deposits and entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance investments in money market funds and other instruments and structures that sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so risk of changes in value.
the nature of the item being hedged.
Assets and liabilities held for sale The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest rate risk Assets and liabilities are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying on borrowings.
Any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement within amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is finance expenses.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency derivatives and hedges of interest rate movements associated with highly probable forecast Borrowings transactions.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective Borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts received, net of direct portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at amortised cost, and interest is charged to the The Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in its Italian companies by income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest designating Euro borrowings as a net investment hedge.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees are charged to the income statement over the period of the In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet strict criteria as borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
regards documentation, effectiveness, probability of occurrence and reliability of measurement.
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the Preference shares relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its Preference shares or components of preference shares are classified on initial risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging recognition as a financial liability or equity based on the terms of the contract.
Effectiveness testing is conducted at each reporting date and at the They are classified as a financial liability if the terms impose a contractual commencement and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that the hedge obligation to deliver cash.
continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge accounting to be maintained.
The ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
Provisions A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether legal or Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate transaction that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or can be made of the amount of the obligation.
is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is The amount recognised as a provision shall be the present value of the best recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the of the reporting period, i. e. the present value of the amount that the Group would cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or to transfer it to to the income statement.
Put options written on noncontrolling interests Property provisions are made in the financial statements at the lower of the Commitments to purchase minority interests and put options granted to minority cost of fulfilling lease commitments for property space surplus to business shareholders are recognised at fair value as a financial liability.
When the financial requirements after taking into account income from sub-letting, and any liability is recognised initially, the redemption amount is reclassified from equity.
compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil the lease commitments.
The changes in the measurement of the financial liability are recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the measurement of that financial liability do not All provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
change the relative interests in the subsidiary that are held by the parent and the  shareholder and therefore are not equity transactions.
Equity and related items Share capital Trade receivables The Companys own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are deducted Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their fair value, which from equity until they vest unconditionally for employees and are held at cost.
is usually the original invoiced amount less provision for impairment.
A provision Consideration paid in respect of these treasury shares is deducted from equity for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability Dividend distributions that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or will be subject to a financial reorganisation Dividend distributions to the Companys equity holders are recognised as or default on, or be delinquent on, its payment obligations are considered a liability in the Group financial statements in the period in which the dividends indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is are approved by the Companys shareholders.
the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the portion deemed recoverable.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the income statement.
122 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 2.
Financial Risk Management The Group seeks to protect its financial performance and the value of its business from exposure to capital, credit, concentration, country, liquidity and market including foreign exchange, fair value, cash flow and interest rate risks.
The Groups financial risk management approach is not speculative.
It is performed both at a Group level, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks from a Group perspective and also locally, where operating units manage their regulatory and operational risks.
This includes clearing operations at the Groups CCPs at LCH Group and CC&G that adhere to local regulation and operate under locally approved risk and investment policies.
The Group Chief Risk Officers team provides assurance that the Groups risk management, governance and internal control processes are operating effectively.
The Financial Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Executive Committee and chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets monthly to oversee the consolidated financial risks of the Group.
In addition, the Treasury Committee, a sub-committee of the Financial Risk Committee which is also chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets regularly to monitor the management of and controls around foreign exchange, interest rates, credit and concentration risks and the investment of excess liquidity in addition to its oversight of the Groups funding arrangements.
Both committees provide the Groups senior management with assurance that the treasury and risk operations are performed in accordance with Group Board approved policies and procedures.
Regular updates, on a range of key criteria as well as new developments, are provided through the Enterprise Risk Management Framework to the Group Risk Committee.
See Risk Management Oversight, pages 44 46, for further detail on the Groups risk framework.
On 23 June 2016 the UK voted to exit the EU.
The UK companies within the Group, as members of the EU or European Economic Area EEA, rely on a number of rights that are available to them to conduct business with other EU or EEA members.
This includes, without limitation, the right for UK CCPs to offer clearing services to EU regulated firms under EMIR, and the right for UK trading venues to offer services to members in the EU or EEA.
The Group companies have analysed the potential impacts and considered contingency plans that they may choose to execute should these rights not be replaced by rights that persist outside EU membership.
Capital risk Risk description Risk management approach The Group is profitable and strongly cash generative The Group focuses upon its overall cost of capital as it seeks, within the scope of its risk appetite, to provide and its capital base comprises equity and debt capital.
superior returns to its shareholders, fulfil its obligations to the relevant regulatory authorities and other stakeholders and ensure that it is not overly dependent upon short and medium term debt that might not be However, the Group recognises the risk that its entities available at renewal.
Maintaining the flexibility to invest for growth is a key capital management consideration.
may not maintain sufficient capital to meet their obligations or they may make investments that fail The Group can manage its capital structure and react to changes in economic conditions by varying returns to generate a positive or value enhancing return.
to shareholders, issuing new shares or increasing or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy The Group comprises regulated and unregulated entities.
and funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
It considers that: A summary of the Groups capital structure is presented below: increases in the capital requirements of its regulated 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 companies, or negative yields on its investments of cash, or Book value of capital m m a scarcity of debt or equity driven by its own Group consolidated equity before non-controlling interests 3,105.9 2,743.9 performance or financial market conditions Group consolidated debt 1,165.9 1,608.9 either separately or in combination are the principal risks to managing its capital.
Whilst the Company is unregulated, the regulated entities within the Group continuously monitor compliance with the capital requirements set by their respective competent authorities and the terms of reference of the Financial Risk Committee includes oversight of the Groups Capital Management Policy.
The Capital Management Policy seeks to ensure that compliance with local regulations is maintained and that there is a robust evaluation, undertaken by the Groups Investment Committee, of the impact of new investments, across the Group, on its capital position.
Regulated entities within the Group have to date predominantly issued equity and held cash to satisfy their local regulatory capital requirements.
We believe that capital held by Group companies is sufficient to comfortably support current regulatory frameworks.
The level of amounts set aside by the Group for these purposes remains subject to on-going review with regulators, particularly in Europe.
A summary of the Groups regulatory and operational capital is shown below: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Regulatory and operational capital m m Total regulatory and operational capital 942.6 952.8 Amount included in cash and cash equivalents 847.6 719.1 The total capital amounts have remained relatively stable through the year and include: cash and cash equivalents: certain liquid investments classified as financial assets held at fair value: the LCH Groups regulated cash and cash equivalents: and the 200.0 million generally set aside by other Group operations.
To maintain the financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost and sustain an investment grade credit rating, the Group monitors its net leverage ratio which is operating net debt i. e. net debt after excluding cash and cash equivalents set aside for regulatory and operational purposes to adjusted EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, depreciation and amortisation, foreign exchange gains or losses and non-recurring items, proformad for acquisitions or disposals undertaken in the period against a target range of 1-2 times.
The Group is also mindful of potential impacts on the key metrics employed by the credit rating agencies in considering increases to its borrowings.
As at 31 December 2016, net leverage had reduced back to 1.1 times 2015: 1.7 times, and is within the Groups target range.
The Group is comfortably in compliance with its bank facility ratio covenants net leverage and interest cover and these measures do not inhibit the Groups operations or its financing plans.
123 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued Credit and concentration risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups credit risk relates to its customers and Group counterparties being unable to meet their obligations Credit risk is controlled through policies developed at a Group level.
to the Group either in part or in full, including: customer receivables Group companies make a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the customers financial repayment of invested cash and cash equivalents position, the recurring nature of billing and collection arrangements and, historically, a low incidence of default.
settlement of derivative financial instruments Furthermore, the Group is exposed to a large number of customers and so concentration risk on its receivables is deemed by management as low.
In their roles as central counterparty CCP clearers to financial market participants, the Groups CCPs Non-CCP entities guarantee final settlement of transactions acting as Credit risk of cash and cash equivalents is managed by limiting exposure to counterparties with credit rating levels buyer towards each seller and as seller towards each below policy minimum thresholds, potentially overlaid by a default probability assessment.
They manage substantial credit risks as part of approval is arranged to increase this limit for certain counterparties, a maximum of 50.0 million may be invested their operations including unmatched risk positions for up to 12 months with counterparties rated long term AAA or equivalent, through to a maximum 25 million that might arise from the default of a party to a cleared overnight with counterparties rated short term A-2 or equivalent.
Derivative transactions and other treasury transaction.
For more information see Principal Risk receivable structures are undertaken or agreed with well capitalised counterparties and are authorised by policy, and Uncertainties, pages 47 53. to limit the credit risk underlying these transactions.
Notwithstanding regulations that require CCPs to invest CCPs predominantly in secured instruments or structures To address the market participant and latent market risk, the Groups CCPs have established financial safeguards such as government bonds and reverse repos, CC&G against single or multiple defaults.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, technical and and the LCH Group CCPs continue to be able to maintain organisational criteria.
Each member must pay margins, computed and collected at least daily, to cover the up to 5% of their total deposits at commercial banks on exposures and theoretical costs which the CCP might incur in order to close out open positions in the event of the an unsecured basis.
Through this potential for its CCPs to members default.
Margins are calculated using established and internationally acknowledged risk models and are invest on an unsecured basis as well as by certain other debited from participants accounts through central bank accounts and via commercial bank payment systems.
regulated and unregulated operations observing agreed Minimum levels of cash collateral are required and non-cash collateral is re-valued daily.
investment policy limits, the Group will continue to face the risk of direct loss from a deterioration or failure of one 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 or more of its unsecured investment counterparties.
bn bn Concentration risk may arise through Group entities Clearing members margin liability 138.8 85.7 having large individual or connected exposures to groups Cash 72.2 45.6 of counterparties whose likelihood of default is driven Collateral security Non-cash 66.6 40.1 by common underlying factors.
This is a particular focus of the investment approach at the Groups CCPs.
Maximum aggregate margin liability 145.2 99.6 for the year Clearing members also contribute to default funds managed by the CCPs to guarantee the integrity of the markets in the event of multiple defaults in extreme market circumstances.
Amounts are determined on the basis of the results of periodic stress testing examined by the risk committees of the respective CCPs.
Furthermore, each of the Groups CCPs reinforces its capital position to meet the most stringent relevant regulatory requirements applicable to it, including holding a minimum amount of dedicated own resources to further underpin the protective credit risk framework in the event of a significant market stress event or participant failure.
An analysis of the aggregate clearing member contributions to default funds across the CCPs is shown below: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Clearing member contributions to default funds bn bn Aggregate at year 12.0 9.4 Maximum during the year 12.1 10.6 Investment counterparty risk for CCP margin and default funds is managed by investing the cash element in instruments or structures deemed secure by the relevant regulatory bodies including through direct investments in highly rated, regulatory qualifying sovereign bonds and supra-national debt, investments in tri-party and bi-lateral reverse repos receiving high quality government securities as collateral and, in certain jurisdictions, deposits with the central bank.
The small proportion of cash that is invested unsecured is placed for short durations with highly rated counterparties where strict limits are applied with respect to credit quality, concentration and tenor.
31 December 2016 31 December 2015 bn bn Total investment portfolio 85.6 54.3 Maximum portfolio size during the year 88.9 61.1 Additional portfolio information: Weighted average invested securely 98.9% 99.0% Overall maturity days 62 90 Associated liquidity risks are considered in the investment mix and discussed further below.
To address concentration risk, the Group maintains a diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid investments and uses a broad range of custodians, payment and settlement banks and agents.
The largest concentration of treasury exposures as at 31 December 2016 was 21.7% of the total investment portfolio to the French Government 2015: 24.8% to the French Government.
124 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Country risk Risk description Risk management approach Distress can result from the risk that certain Specific risk frameworks manage country risk for both fixed income clearing and margin collateral and all clearing governments may be unable or find it difficult to service members are monitored regularly against a suite of sovereign stress scenarios.
Investment limits and counterparty their debts.
This could have adverse effects, particularly and clearing membership monitoring are sensitive to changes in ratings and other financial market indicators, to on the Groups CCPs, potentially impacting cleared ensure the Groups CCPs are able to measure, monitor and mitigate exposures to sovereign risk and respond quickly products, margin collateral, investments, the clearing to anticipated changes.
Risk Committees maintain an on-going watch over these risks and the associated policy membership and the financial industry as a whole.
frameworks to protect the Group against potentially severe volatility in the sovereign debt markets.
The Groups sovereign exposures of 1 billion or more at the end of either of the financial reporting periods shown below are: Group Aggregate Sovereign Treasury Exposures 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Country bn bn France 18.5 13.4 Italy 11.7 5.6 USA 13.9 4.0 Netherlands 5.7 UK 4.4 2.6 Spain 2.1 1.9 Switzerland 1.0 Belgium 1.5 Liquidity, settlement and custodial risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups operations are exposed to liquidity risk to The combined Group businesses are profitable, generate strong free cash flow and operations are not significantly the extent that they are unable to meet their daily impacted by seasonal variations.
The Group maintains sufficient liquid resources to meet its financial obligations payment obligations.
as they fall due and to invest in capital expenditure, make dividend payments, support acquisitions or repay borrowings.
With the exception of regulatory constraints impacting certain entities, funds can generally be lent In addition, the Groups CCPs and certain other subsidiary across the Group or remitted through dividend payments.
This is an important component of the Group Treasury companies are required to maintain a level of liquidity cash management policy and approach.
consistent with regulatory requirements to ensure the smooth operation of their respective markets and to Management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash flow and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts to reflect maintain operations in the event of a single or multiple assumptions about more difficult market conditions or stress events.
market stress event or member failure.
This includes the potential requirement to liquidate the position of Treasury policy requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a diversified lending group a clearing member under a default scenario including to cover its expected funding requirements and ensure a minimum level of headroom for at least the next 24 covering the associated losses and the settlement months.
The financial strength of lenders to the Group is monitored regularly.
During the year ended 31 December obligations of the defaulting member.
2016, the July 2016 250 million bond was repaid utilising the Groups committed credit facilities.
At 31 December 2016, 732.6 million 2015: 518.3 million of the Groups facilities were unutilised.
The Group is exposed to the risk that a payment or settlement bank could fail or that its systems The Groups CCPs maintain sufficient cash and cash equivalents and, in certain jurisdictions, have access to central encounter operational issues, creating liquidity bank refinancing or commercial bank liquidity support credit lines to meet the cash requirements of the clearing pressures and the risk of possible defaults on and settlement cycle.
Revised regulations require CCPs to ensure that appropriate levels of back up liquidity are in payment or receivable obligations.
place to underpin the dynamics of a largely secured cash investment requirement, ensuring that the maximum potential outflow under extreme market conditions is covered see Credit and concentration risk section above.
The Group uses third party custodians to hold securities The Groups CCPs monitor their liquidity needs daily under stressed and unstressed assumptions.
and is therefore exposed to the custodians insolvency, its negligence, a misuse of assets or poor administration.
Where possible, the Group employs guaranteed delivery versus payment settlement techniques and manages CCP margin and default fund flows through central bank or long-established, bespoke commercial bank settlement mechanisms.
Monies due from clearing members remain the clearing members liability if the payment agent is unable to effect the appropriate transfer.
In addition, certain Group companies, including the CCPs, maintain operational facilities with commercial banks to manage intraday and overnight liquidity.
Custodians are subject to minimum eligibility requirements, ongoing credit assessment, robust contractual arrangements and are required to have appropriate back-up contingency arrangements in place.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table reflect the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
The borrowings line includes interest on debt that is not yet accrued for.
At 31 December 2016 Less than 1 year Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years Over 5 years Total m m m m m Borrowings 653.7 37.1 638.4 14.3 1,343.5 Trade and other payables 601.1 601.1 CCP liabilities 558,478.3 558,478.3 Derivative liabilities 19.3 19.3 Other non-current liabilities 46.2 12.2 7.1 65.5 559,733.1 83.3 669.9 21.4 560,507.7 125 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued At 31 December 2015 Less than 1 year Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years Over 5 years Total m m m m m Borrowings 973.8 178.3 338.4 314.3 1,804.8 Trade and other payables 452.4 452.4 CCP liabilities 456,663.3 456,663.3 Other non-current payables 40.7 2.8 43.5 Other non-current liabilities 14.7 47.8 2.8 65.3 458,089.5 193.0 426.9 319.9 459,029.3 Market risk Foreign Exchange Risk description Risk management approach The Group operates primarily in the UK, Europe and The Group seeks to match the currency of its debt liabilities to the currency of its earnings and cash flows which North America, but also has growing and strategically to an extent balances the currency of its assets with its liabilities.
In order to mitigate the impact of unfavourable important businesses in Asia, and other alliances and currency exchange movements on earnings and net assets, non-Sterling cash earnings are centralised and investments across the globe.
Its principal currencies applied to matching currency debt and interest payments, and where relevant, interest payments on Sterling of operation are Sterling, Euro and US Dollars.
debt re-denominated through the use of cross-currency swaps.
With the exception of MillenniumIT a Sri Lankan Rupee A proportion of the Groups debt is held in or swapped into Euro and a proportion is held in US Dollars.
reporting entity, which invoices a material proportion of its revenues in US Dollars, and LCH.
Clearnet Limited 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 a Euro reporting entity, which incurs a majority of its Currency of debt m m costs in Sterling, Group companies generally invoice revenues, incur expenses and purchase assets in their Euro denominated drawn debt 352.0 132.2 respective local currencies.
As a result, foreign exchange Euro denominated cross-currency interest rate swaps 255.8 368.5 risk arises mainly from the translation of the Groups USD denominated drawn debt 100.5 591.6 foreign currency earnings, assets and liabilities into its reporting currency, Sterling, and from occasional, high value intragroup transactions.
The cross currency interest rate swaps are directly linked to Sterling fixed debt.
The Euro and USD denominated debt, including the cross-currency swaps, provides a hedge against the Groups net investment in Euro and USD Intragroup dividends may create short term transactional denominated entities.
FX exposures but play their part in controlling the level of translational FX exposures the Group faces.
The Groups designated hedges in its net investments were fully effective.
The Group may be exposed from time to time to FX risk Whilst transactional foreign exchange exposure is limited, the Group hedges material transactions in accordance associated with strategic investments in or divestments with Group Treasury policy which requires that cash flows of more than 1 million or equivalent per annum should from operations denominated in currencies other be hedged with appropriate derivative instruments or by settling currency payables or receivables within a short than Sterling.
Where appropriate, hedge accounting for derivatives is considered in order to mitigate material levels of income statement volatility.
In addition to projecting and analysing its earnings and debt profile by currency, the Group reviews sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
The Group has considered movements in the Euro and the US Dollar over the year ended 31 December 2016 and year ended 31 December 2015, and has concluded that a 10% movement in rates is a reasonable level to measure the risk to the Group.
The impact on post tax profit and equity for the years ended 31 December is set out in the table below: 2016 2015 Post tax profit Equity Post tax profit Equity m m m m Euro Sterling weaken 3.8 37.6 3.5 17.7 Sterling strengthen 3.5 34.2 3.1 16.0 US Dollar Sterling weaken 2.3 5.2 3.8 51.2 Sterling strengthen 2.1 4.7 3.4 46.4 This reflects foreign exchange gains or losses on translation of Euro and US Dollar denominated trade receivables, trade payables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss including Euro and US Dollar denominated cash and borrowings.
The impact on the Groups operating profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, of a 10 Euro cent and 10 US Dollar cent movement in the Sterling-Euro and Sterling-US Dollar rates respectively, can be seen below: 2016 2015 m m Euro Sterling weaken 26.9 24.5 Sterling strengthen 22.8 21.2 US Dollar Sterling weaken 16.9 5.5 Sterling strengthen 14.6 6.3 126 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Market risk Cash Flow and Fair Value Interest Rate Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups interest rate risk arises through the impact Group interest rate management policy focusses on protecting the Groups credit rating and maintaining of changes in market rates on cash flows associated with compliance with bank covenant requirements.
To support this objective, a minimum coverage of interest cash and cash equivalents, investments in financial expense by EBITDA of 7 times, and a maximum floating rate component of 50% of total debt are targeted.
assets and borrowings held at floating rates.
This approach reflects: The Groups CCPs face interest rate exposure through i a focus on the Groups cost of gross debt rather than its net debt given the material cash and cash equivalents the impact of changes in the reference rates used to set aside for regulatory purposes: calculate member liabilities versus the yields achieved through their investment activities.
ii the short duration allowed for investments of cash and cash equivalents held for regulatory purposes which, by their nature, generate low investment yields: iii a view that already low market yields are unlikely to move materially lower: and iv the broad natural hedge of floating rate borrowings provided by the significant balances of cash and cash equivalents held effectively at floating rates of interest.. As at 31 December 2016, consolidated net interest expense cover by EBITDA was measured over the 12 month period at 13.0 times 2015: 11.7 times and the floating rate component of total debt was 40% 2015: 42%.
In the Groups CCPs, interest bearing assets are generally invested for a longer term than interest bearing liabilities, whose interest rate is reset daily.
This makes investment revenue vulnerable to volatility in overnight rates and shifts in spreads between overnight and term rates.
Interest rate exposures and the risk to CCP capital are managed within defined risk appetite parameters against which sensitivities are monitored daily.
In its review of the sensitivities to potential movements in interest rates, the Group has considered interest rate volatility over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a 1 percentage point upward movement with a limited prospect of material downward movement reflects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 December 2016, at the Group level, if interest rates on Sterling-denominated, Eurodenominated and US Dollar-denominated cash and borrowings had been 1 percentage point higher with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would actually have been 4.6 million higher 2015: 2.8 million higher mainly as a result of higher interest income on floating rate cash and cash equivalents partially offset by higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2016, at the CCP level in aggregate, if interest rates on the common interest bearing member liability benchmarks of Eonia, Fed Funds and Sonia, for Euro, US Dollar and Sterling liabilities respectively, had been 1 percentage point higher, with all other variables held constant, the daily impact on post-tax profit for the Group would have been 1.7 million lower 2015: 1.0 million lower.
This deficit would be recovered as investment yields increase as the portfolio matures and is re-invested.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
For the year ended 31 December 2016 the following areas require the use of estimates: Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination valued on acquisition using appropriate methodologies and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
These valuations and lives are based on managements best estimates of future performance and periods over which value from the intangible assets are realised.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are provided in note 15: Impairment of purchased intangible assets, goodwill and investment in subsidiaries tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by investors to determine an appropriate discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 15: Defined benefit pension asset or liability determined based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 19: and Corporation taxes estimates are required in determining the provision for corporation taxes.
The Group recognises liabilities for the estimated tax charge at the period end and where the final tax liability is different from that estimate: such differences are reflected in the period in which such determination is made.
Income tax provisions are recognised on the basis that the relevant tax authorities are fully aware of any situations giving rise to uncertainty.
Details are provided in note 9 and 18.
The judgements applied by management for the year ended 31 December 2016 are as follows: Assets held for sale and discontinued operations are assessed against the conditions prevailing at the reporting date as to whether the carrying amount of assets and liabilities will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
As at 31 December 2016, no potential business disposal or asset sale met the criteria set out in IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations and as such the Group classified no assets or disposal groups as held for sale.
Details are provided in note 10.
127 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Segmental Information The Group is organised into operating units based on its service lines and has six reportable segments: Capital Markets, Post Trade Services CC&G and Monte Titoli, Post Trade Services LCH, Information Services, Technology Services and Other.
These segments generate revenue in the following areas: Capital Markets Admission fees from initial listing and further capital raises, annual fees charged for securities traded securities on the Groups markets, and fees from our secondary market services: Post Trade Services CC&G and Monte Titoli Clearing fees based on trades and contracts cleared, net interest earned on cash, securities held for margin and default funds, and fees from settlement and custody services: Post Trade Services LCH Fees based on Central Counterparty CCP services provided, non-cash collateral management and net interest earned on cash held for margin and default funds: Information Services subscription and licence fees for data and index services provided: Technology Services capital markets software licences and related IT infrastructure, network connection and server hosting services: and Other includes events and media services.
The Executive Committee monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Sales between segments are carried out at arms length and are eliminated on consolidation.
Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2016 are as follows: Post Trade Services Capital CC&G and Post Trade Information Technology Markets Monte Titoli Services LCH Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 368.3 103.7 356.5 594.7 88.3 4.1 1,515.6 Inter-segmental revenue 0.6 15.9 16.5 Revenue 368.3 104.3 356.5 594.7 104.2 4.1 16.5 1,515.6 Net treasury income through CCP business 42.6 82.2 124.8 Other income 8.4 8.3 16.7 Total income 368.3 146.9 447.1 594.7 104.2 12.4 16.5 1,657.1 Cost of sales 22.5 12.6 55.8 54.4 27.8 1.7 174.8 Gross profit 345.8 134.3 391.3 540.3 76.4 10.7 16.5 1,482.3 Share of loss after tax of associates 4.9 4.9 Operating profit loss before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 176.8 52.4 123.5 335.8 12.8 3.9 11.6 685.8 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 156.6 Non-recurring items 102.4 Operating profit 426.8 Net finance expense 62.7 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 364.1 Other income statement items Depreciation, software amortisation and impairment 11.1 18.2 35.8 12.8 5.7 2.9 1.5 85.0 128 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Revenue from external customers principally comprises fees for services rendered amounting to 1,423.2 million 2015: 1,239.6 million and Technology Services amounting to 88.3 million 2015: 80.6 million.
Net treasury income through CCP business of 124.8 million 2015: 85.7 million comprises gross interest income of 469.9 million 2015: 261.7 million less gross interest expense of 345.1 million 2015: 176.0 million.
Interest from investment in securities amounts to 8.8 million 2015: 4.1 million.
Other income includes a 1.6 million fair value loss 2015: 2.2 million gain in gross interest income relating to the revaluation of CCP clearing business assets.
Presented within revenue are net settlement expenses from the CCP business of 5.2 million 2015: 3.2 million expense which comprise gross settlement income of 15.6 million 2015: 13.3 million less gross settlement expense of 20.8 million 2015: 16.5 million.
Comparative segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2015 are as follows: Post Trade Services Capital CC&G and Post Trade Information Technology Markets Monte Titoli Services LCH Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 330.3 89.8 302.1 517.4 80.6 4.5 1,324.7 Inter-segmental revenue 0.9 12.9 13.8 Revenue 330.3 90.7 302.1 517.4 93.5 4.5 13.8 1,324.7 Net treasury income through CCP business 29.3 56.4 85.7 Other income 2.2 6.0 8.2 Total income 330.3 120.0 360.7 517.4 93.5 10.5 13.8 1,418.6 Cost of sales 15.1 6.7 28.3 45.4 28.3 1.7 125.5 Gross profit 315.2 113.3 332.4 472.0 65.2 8.8 13.8 1,293.1 Operating profit loss before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 170.9 51.8 90.9 270.6 6.4 2.1 3.8 584.7 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 149.6 Non-recurring items 30.7 Operating profit 404.4 Net finance expense 68.3 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 336.1 Other income statement items: Depreciation, software amortisation and impairment 10.5 6.7 28.5 11.6 5.4 0.2 4.0 58.9 Geographical disclosure Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Revenue UK 866.0 749.3 Italy 306.1 264.7 France 92.1 83.7 USA 177.6 156.7 Other 73.8 70.3 Total 1,515.6 1,324.7 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Total assets UK 159,995.6 123,166.8 Italy 176,525.9 148,558.9 France 226,089.4 188,662.5 USA 1,977.0 2,581.6 Other 207.6 281.4 Total 564,795.5 463,251.2 129 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Expenses by nature Expenses comprise the following: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes m m Employee costs 6 428.8 405.5 Depreciation, non-acquisition software amortisation and impairment 85.0 58.9 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 7 259.0 180.3 IT costs 117.6 107.4 Other costs 160.2 136.6 Total 1,050.6 888.7 6.
Employee costs Employee costs comprise the following: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Note m m Salaries and other short term benefits 328.8 322.4 Social security costs 51.3 42.5 Pension costs 19 21.5 18.1 Share-based compensation 27.2 22.5 Total 428.8 405.5 The average number of employees in the Group from total operations was: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 UK 1,352 1,731 Italy 568 565 France 172 242 Sri Lanka 946 926 USA 258 1,296 Other 452 791 Total 3,748 5,551 Average is calculated from date of acquisition of a subsidiary company by the Group.
The Company had no employees in the year 2015: nil.
130 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 7.
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Note m m Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 15 156.6 149.6 Transaction costs 85.4 1.0 Transaction credit 1.1 Restructuring costs 13.8 9.9 Integration costs 3.2 21.4 Profit on disposal of assets held for sale 0.5 Total affecting operating profit 259.0 180.3 Tax effect on items affecting profit before tax Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 41.3 56.2 Current tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 1.3 1.8 Tax effect on other items affecting profit before tax 3.8 18.0 Total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax 38.8 76.0 Total charge to income statement 220.2 104.3 Transaction costs comprise charges incurred for ongoing services related to potential or completed merger and acquisitions transactions.
Restructuring and integration costs principally relate to the restructuring of LCH Group and the restructuring and integration of Frank Russell Company.
The transaction credit in the prior year relates to the release of a contingent consideration liability in respect of a past acquisition of a Group subsidiary.
The contractual terms under which the consideration was payable expired and the financial liability was derecognised.
The 0.5 million profit on disposal of assets held for sale in the prior year relates to the sale of a freehold property and related equipment held by a subsidiary.
The carrying value of the assets at the date of disposal was 5.3 million.
Net finance expense Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Notes m m Finance income Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 19 1.0 0.6 Bank deposit and other interest income 1.0 0.9 Other finance income 5.1 1.4 7.1 2.9 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 64.7 66.0 Defined benefit pension scheme interest cost 19 1.6 1.2 Other finance expenses 3.5 4.0 69.8 71.2 Net finance expense 62.7 68.3 Net finance expense includes amounts where the Group earns negative interest on its cash deposits.
131 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Taxation The standard UK corporation tax rate was 20% 20.25% for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Year ended Year ended Taxation charged to the income statement 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Note m m Current tax: UK corporation tax for the year 46.3 49.8 Overseas tax for the year 88.6 51.6 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2.7 4.2 132.2 97.2 Deferred tax: 18 Deferred tax for the year 6.5 0.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 4.2 2.0 Deferred tax liability on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 41.3 50.9 Taxation charge 101.6 48.1 The adjustments in respect of previous years corporation tax are mainly in respect of tax returns submitted to relevant tax authorities.
Taxation on items not credited charged to income statement Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Current tax credit: Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 10.6 5.8 Deferred tax credit charge : Tax on defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement 14.7 2.8 Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 6.2 0.1 Tax on movement in value of available for sale financial assets 1.4 17.7 2.9 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The income statement tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2015: 20.25% as explained below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Profit before taxation from continuing operations 364.1 336.1 Profit before taxation from discontinued operations 104.2 97.6 468.3 433.7 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 93.7 87.8 Expenses not deductible 17.9 3.5 Adjustment arising from change in tax rate 2.6 4.6 Overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 166.8 16.6 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.5 2.2 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 0.2 Adjustment arising from changes in tax rates on amortisation of intangible assets 6.0 17.0 Deferred tax previously not recognised 1.1 7.3 Income tax from continuing operations 101.6 48.1 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 173.8 28.5 The UK Finance Bill 2015 was enacted in November 2015 reducing the standard rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and the UK Finance Bill 2016 was enacted in September 2016 reducing the standard rate of corporation tax further to 17% effective from 1 April 2020.
Accordingly, the UK deferred tax balances at December 2016 have been stated at 19% or 18% dependent on when the timing differences are expected to reverse.
The deferred tax balances in other countries are recognised at the substantially enacted rates at the balance sheet date.
Judgements and estimates An amount of 4.5 million has been provided for uncertain tax positions.
This reflects ongoing discussions with the tax authorities regarding the tax effect of certain changes in accounting policy for intangible assets and uncertainty arising from the introduction of UK Diverted Profits Tax.
132 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 10.
Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale On 8 October 2015, the Group announced that it had agreed the sale of the Russell Investment Management business to TA Associates.
As a result, the Russell Investment Management business was classified as a disposal group held for sale and as a discontinued operation.
On 31 May 2016, the Group completed the sale of the Russell Investment Management business to TA Associates and Reverence Capital Partners in exchange for US$1,150 million 794.4 million total consideration.
Further details are provided in Note 11.
The results of the Russell Investment Management business for the five month period to 31 May 2016 and the prior year comparatives are included as discontinued operations in the Groups consolidated income statement.
The Investment Management segment was not presented within the income statement analysis in the Segmental Information note Note 4 in the current year or in the prior year.
In October 2015, the Group completed the disposal of Proquote Ltd for cash consideration of 22.0 million.
The carrying value of net assets on disposal amounted to 1.9 million and after transaction costs of 0.2 million, a non-recurring profit on disposal of 19.9 million was recognised in the income statement from discontinued operations.
The results of the Proquote Ltd business were included as discontinued operations for the period of Groups ownership in the prior year.
The results of discontinued operations are presented below: 2016 2015 Note m m Revenue 389.5 960.7 Other income 1.3 2.2 Total income 390.8 962.9 Cost of sales 200.3 494.9 Gross profit 190.5 468.0 Share of profit after tax of associate 0.5 Expenses Expenses before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 162.7 343.6 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 7.1 Non-recurring items 75.4 22.3 Operating profit 103.2 95.5 Net finance income 1.0 2.1 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 104.2 97.6 Taxation on profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 10.2 36.2 Taxation on amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 163.6 7.7 Taxation 9 173.8 28.5 Loss profit after tax from discontinued operations 69.6 69.1 Attributable to: Equity holders 70.7 68.7 Non-controlling interests 1.1 0.4 69.6 69.1 Discontinued revenue for the year ended 31 December 2016 relates to Russell Investment Management of 389.5 million 2015: 953.1 million and Proquote of nil 2015: 7.6 million.
The non-recurring item in the current year of 75.4 million relates to the profit on disposal of the Russell Investment Management business.
During the year, the Group recognised 12.0 million 2015: 28.4 million of costs in relation to the disposal of the Russell Investment Management business.
As the Russell Investment Management business was sold prior to 31 December 2016, the assets and liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2015 are no longer included on the Groups balance sheet.
The net cash flows incurred by discontinued operations during the year are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Cash inflow from operating activities 59.1 51.5 Cash outflow inflow from investing activities 8.3 2.9 Cash inflow outflow from financing activities 20.0 5.8 Net cash inflow 70.8 48.6 133 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Disposal of business On 31 May 2016, the Group sold the entire issued share capital it owned in the Russell Investment Management business, a subsidiary of the Group, to TA Associates and Reverence Capital Partners the Acquirers in exchange for US$1,150 million 794.4 million total consideration, before working capital and other adjustments, and foreign exchange movements aggregating to US$139.5 million 96.5 million as of 31 May 2016.
Of the total consideration, US$150 million 103.6 million is deferred and will be paid annually in four equal cash instalments starting from 31 December 2017.
After the adjustments to the consideration and the deferred consideration, the sale resulted in net cash proceeds of US$860.5 million 594.3 million.
The deferred consideration has been discounted, resulting in a balance of US$130.8 million 90.3 million.
Net proceeds will be confirmed following the finalisation of discussions between the Group and the Acquirers on the completion statement, including the finalisation of the working capital and other adjustments.
The disposal accounting will be finalised on completion of the relevant tax returns.
On the date of disposal, the net assets of the Russell Investment Management business, the consideration and the profit on disposal were as follows: Assets m Property, plant and equipment 33.4 Intangible assets 704.8 Investment in associates 5.4 Trade and other receivables 189.3 Cash and cash equivalents 185.2 Other assets 44.4 1,162.5 Liabilities Borrowings 3.7 Trade and other payables 225.7 Current tax 2.9 Deferred tax liabilities 218.7 Provisions 1.0 Other liabilities 38.6 490.6 Total carrying value of net assets disposed 671.9 Attributable to non-controlling interests 38.2 Group's share of net assets disposed 633.7 Amounts accumulated in Other Comprehensive Income: Foreign exchange translation reserves reclassified to profit or loss 36.5 Reserve of disposal group 36.5 Group's share of net assets and reserves disposed 597.2 Consideration Cash consideration after adjustments to consideration 594.3 Deferred consideration discounted 90.3 Total consideration 684.6 Profit on disposal before disposal costs and tax 87.4 Cost of disposal 12.0 Profit on disposal before tax 75.4 Taxation: Deferred tax arising on the disposal of subsidiary 29.6 Current tax arising on the disposal of subsidiary 134.0 Total tax on disposal 163.6 Loss on disposal after tax 88.2 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Initial consideration 690.8 Adjustments to consideration 96.5 Net cash inflow 594.3 The profit on disposal is included as a non-recurring item within discontinued operations and is disclosed in note 10.
134 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 12.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is presented on four bases: basic earnings per share: diluted earnings per share: adjusted basic earnings per share: and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of share options and share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude amortisation of purchased intangible assets, non-recurring items and unrealised gains and losses to enable a better comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total Basic earnings per share 63.8p 20.3p 43.5p 74.8p 19.8p 94.6p Diluted earnings per share 62.5p 19.9p 42.6p 73.7p 19.5p 93.2p Adjusted basic earnings per share 124.7p 5.0p 129.7p 103.4p 26.0p 129.4p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 122.3p 4.9p 127.2p 101.9p 25.7p 127.6p Profit and adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to the Companys equity holders of the parent: Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total m m m m m m Profit for the financial year attributable to the Companys equity holders 222.6 70.7 151.9 259.6 68.7 328.3 Adjustments: Amortisation of purchased intangibles and non recurring items: Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 156.6 156.6 149.6 7.1 156.7 Transaction costs 85.4 85.4 1.0 1.0 Transaction credit 1.1 1.1 Restructuring costs 13.8 13.8 9.9 42.2 52.1 Integration costs 3.2 3.2 21.4 21.4 Profit on disposal of assets and liabilities held for sale 75.4 75.4 0.5 19.9 20.4 Other adjusting items: Tax effect of amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 38.8 163.6 124.8 76.0 7.7 83.7 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets, non-recurring items and taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 7.7 7.7 5.2 5.2 Adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to the Company's equity holders 435.1 17.5 452.6 358.7 90.4 449.1 Weighted average number of shares million 348.9 347.0 Effect of dilutive share options and awards million 7.0 5.1 Diluted weighted average number of shares million 355.9 352.1 The weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Interim dividend for 31 December 2014 paid 5 January 2015: 9.7p per Ordinary share 33.6 Final dividend for 31 December 2014 paid 2 June 2015: 12.8p per Ordinary share 44.4 Interim dividend for 31 December 2015 paid 22 September 2015: 10.8p per Ordinary share 37.5 Final dividend for 31 December 2015 paid 1 June 2016: 25.2p per Ordinary share 87.7 Interim dividend for 31 December 2016 paid 20 September 2016: 12.0p per Ordinary share 42.0 129.7 115.5 The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 of 31.2 pence per share, which is estimated to amount to 109.3 million, to be paid in May 2017.
In addition, a separate special dividend of 58.2 pence per share, which is estimated to amount to 203.9 million, is payable to LSEG shareholders contingent on completion of the Merger.
These are not reflected in the financial statements.
135 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Transfers during the year relate to re-classification of property, plant and equipment to other asset classes and re-allocations between property, plant and equipment types.
The Company has no property, plant and equipment 2015: nil.
136 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 15.
The remaining amortisation periods of the Groups purchased intangible assets range between: 1 and 16 years for the Italian Group: 1 and 21 years for the LCH Group and the FTSE Group: and 1 and 23 years for the Frank Russell Group.
During the year, Group acquired an initial 50% equity shareholding in SwapMatch Limited SwapMatch for a cash consideration of 1.0 million.
The Group recognised 1.0 million in goodwill.
Further details are provided in Note 31.
The goodwill arising on consolidation represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Italian Group, LCH Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT, the Frank Russell Group, Turquoise and Exactpro.
The Company has no intangible assets 2015: none.
Following a review of software assets across the Group, an impairment charge of 8.2 million was recognised in the year 2015: 1.0 million.
During the year, additions relating to internally generated software amounted to 112.7 million 2015: 96.5 million.
The carrying value of licenses held under finance leases at 31 December 2016 was 0.2 million 2015: 0.8 million.
137 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to 10 cash generating units CGUs.
The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted cash flow projections prepared by management covering the 5 year period ending 31 December 2021.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
T he goodwill within the Italian Group has been corrected to reflect the expected synergies at acquisition.
There has been no change to the overall goodwill recognised in the Group and no change to the resulting impairment testing performed for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the year ended 31 December 2015.
Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions are based on the 2017 budget and the Groups approved business plan.
The assumptions are derived from an assessment of current trends, anticipated market and regulatory developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience.
These factors are considered in conjunction with the Groups long-term strategic objectives to determine appropriate short and medium growth assumptions.
Long-term growth rates assumed to be 1.7% for each of the Italian CGUs 2015: 1.8%, 10.1% for MillenniumIT 2015: 12.7%, 4.1% for Frank Russell Group 2015: 3.0% and 3.7% for the other CGUs 2015: 3.0% represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDP and inflation for the 6 year period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2021, and do not exceed the long term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGUs operate.
Pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, France, Sri Lanka, USA, Russia and the UK as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect the inherent risks of each of the CGUs.
Based on the results of the impairment tests performed, management believes there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in any CGU.
Value in use calculations for each CGU are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
Management believes goodwill allocated to each CGUs is unlikely to be materially impaired under reasonable changes to key assumptions.
The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 December 2016.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a 5% change in revenues or costs for each of the five years in the value in use calculations.
138 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 16.
Investment in associates Group Company m m 1 January 2015 12.1 Share of profit 0.5 Liquidation of associate 5.8 Reclassification to assets held for sale 5.3 Foreign exchange 1.2 31 December 2015 0.3 Acquisition of associates 7.8 7.8 Share of loss after tax 4.9 Foreign exchange 0.1 31 December 2016 3.3 7.8 During the year, the Group and the Company acquired a 25.996% equity interest in Curve Global Limited Curve Global, an interest rate derivatives joint venture with major dealer banks and the Chicago Board Options Exchange.
The Groups investment in Curve Global is accounted for using the equity method.
In the prior year, Ping AN Russell Investment Management Shanghai Co Limited, the Groups principal associate, was liquidated and the invested capital was returned to the Group.
139 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings Shares Other Total Company m m m 1 January 2015 3,891.8 997.3 4,889.1 Movements during the year 7.7 7.7 31 December 2015 3,891.8 1,005.0 4,896.8 Capital contribution to LSEGH Luxembourg Ltd 470.0 470.0 Other movements 1.6 1.6 31 December 2016 4,361.8 1,003.4 5,365.2 Country of Country of principal % equity and Principal subsidiaries: Principal activity incorporation operations votes held Held directly by the Company: England England London Stock Exchange plc Recognised investment exchange and Wales and Wales 100 Held indirectly by the Company: BIt Market Services S. p. A.
Retail information services and market technology Italy Italy 99.99 Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.99 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCP clearing services Italy Italy 99.99 Elite S. p. A.
Business support programme Italy Italy 99.99 Exactpro LLC Quality assurance provider Russian Russian 100 Federation Federation Frank Russell Company Market indices provider USA USA 100 England England FTSE International Ltd Market indices provider and Wales and Wales 100 England England LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited CCP clearing services and Wales and Wales 57.80 Monte Titoli S. p. A. Pre-settlement, settlement and centralised custody Italy Italy 98.86 Millennium Information Technologies Software Ltd IT solutions provider Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 MTS S. p. A.
Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 60.36 Turquoise Global Holdings Ltd Multi-lateral trading facility England England 51.36 and Wales and Wales Under Regulation 7 of The Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008, the Group elected not to prepare partnership accounts for its indirect partnership interest in London Stock Exchange Connectivity Solutions LP, as its results are contained in the consolidated group accounts.
A full list of subsidiaries is provided in note 36.
Clearnet Group Limited is the only subsidiary that has material non-controlling interests within the Group.
Financial information relating to this subsidiary is provided below: 2016 2015 m m Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interests 400.0 339.0 Profit for the year attributable to material non-controlling interests 28.8 20.1 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests 10.1 Total comprehensive income attributable to material non-controlling interests 71.1 9.7 Accumulated balances included goodwill, purchased intangible assets and associated amortisation and impairments attributable to non-controlling interests.
The summarised financial information of LCH Group is provided below.
This information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations and excludes goodwill, purchased intangible assets and associated amortisation and impairments attributable to non-controlling interests.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Total income 447.1 360.6 Profit for the year 68.3 57.0 Total comprehensive income 58.2 69.3 Attributable to non-controlling interests 24.6 29.2 140 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Summarised statement of financial position m m Non-current assets 283.6 239.4 Current assets 391,384.6 312,360.9 Current liabilities 390,828.0 311,764.8 Non-current liabilities 15.4 152.6 Total equity 824.8 682.9 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 476.7 394.7 Non-controlling interests 348.1 288.2 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 173.3 14.3 LCH Group was acquired on 1 May 2013.
Their results have been incorporated from that date.
Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Acquisition Provisions and Accelerated deferred tax other tax and temporary depreciation amortisation differences Total Group m m m m 31 December 2014 5.6 847.6 57.2 784.8 Transfer between categories 3.1 3.1 Tax credited to the income statement 1.2 56.2 0.6 56.8 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement loss 2.8 2.8 foreign exchange 19.2 19.2 Allowance on share options awards to equity 0.1 0.1 Reclassification to assets held for sale 1.6 199.8 42.3 159.1 31 December 2015 8.4 613.9 14.5 591.0 Reclassification from assets held for sale 9.8 9.8 Transfer to current tax 5.6 5.6 Tax credited charged to the income statement 41.3 10.7 30.6 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement loss 14.7 14.7 movement in value of available for sale financial assets 1.4 1.4 foreign exchange 98.8 98.8 Allowance on share options awards to equity 6.2 6.2 31 December 2016 8.4 671.4 26.3 636.7 Assets at 31 December 2016 8.4 59.6 68.0 Liabilities at 31 December 2016 671.4 33.3 704.7 Net assets liabilities at 31 December 2016 8.4 671.4 26.3 636.7 Assets at 31 December 2015 8.4 26.2 34.6 Liabilities at 31 December 2015 613.9 11.7 625.6 Net assets liabilities at 31 December 2015 8.4 613.9 14.5 591.0 The deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of 26.3 million 2015: 14.5 million in respect of provisions and other temporary differences mainly relates to share based payments of 7.2 million 2015: 7.5 million, retirement benefits liability of 9.6 million 2015: 3.1 million, trading losses of 24.3 million 2015: 6.1 million and other provisions and temporary differences of 14.8 million 2015: 4.0 million.
The purchased intangible assets of the acquired subsidiaries create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
This liability is amortised at the same rate as the purchased intangible assets.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 21.1 million 2015: 20.5 million within certain Group subsidiaries.
The assets would be recognised in the future only if suitable taxable income were to arise within the Group.
There was no deferred tax in the Company 2015: nil.
141 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates separate defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the Group in funds administered by trustees.
The funds are primarily managed by Schroder Investment Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited, PIMCO Europe Limited and a buy in insurance asset with Pension Insurance Corporation.
On 5 September 2016, the London Stock Exchange Retirement Plan and the LCH Pension Scheme in the UK underwent a sectionalised merger into a new London Stock Exchange Group Pension Scheme LSEGPS.
The scheme maintains separate LCH and LSE sections.
The assets of the LSEGPS are held by the trustees who are responsible for the schemes governance.
The schemes are invested in a wide range of assets in the UK and overseas, which seek to balance risk and investment return, through investment managers appointed by the schemes trustees.
The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The Other plans relate to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR operated by the Italian group in accordance with Italian law, the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT and the pension commitments of LCH Group.
All schemes are governed by the local regulatory framework and employment laws in the country in which they operate.
The Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
The only schemes operated by FTSE International and Frank Russell Company are defined contribution schemes.
Defined benefit schemes Prior to the sectionalised merger described above, the London Stock Exchange Retirement Plan was a non-contributory defined benefit scheme and closed to new members in 1999.
With effect from 31 March 2012, the scheme also closed to accrual of future benefits for active members and it has been agreed that the benefits for affected members will remain linked to their salary with the Group.
The defined benefit section of the pension scheme operated by LCH Group in the UK was closed to new members from 30 September 2009.
It was closed to further employee contributions and accrual of future benefits from 31 March 2013 with the defined contribution section remaining open until the benefits were transferred to LSEGPS.
Pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualified actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
The obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme and are reflected in the Group balance sheet.
LCH Group also operates a retirement indemnity and long-service award schemes in Paris, for which the scheme obligations are calculated by a qualified independent actuary.
They also operate an independent defined benefit scheme in Porto, assumed in 2006.
An updated valuation of these funds are carried out by a qualified independent actuary.
The TFR operated by the Italian group is classified as an unfunded defined benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007.
The service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91% of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
The scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75% of national life price index 1.5% by an independent qualified actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a defined contribution scheme.
The employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT is classified as a defined benefit plan.
The net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Once an employee is continuously employed for more than five years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIT.
Defined contribution schemes The Groups defined contribution schemes are now the only schemes open to new employees in the Group.
For the new employees in the UK, a core contribution of eight per cent of pensionable pay is provided and the Group will match employee contributions up to a maximum of 4% to 6% of pensionable pay.
Some LCH employees are in a legacy arrangement where three different levels of contributions are payable by the Group.
A consultation to harmonise the UK pension arrangements started on 14 December 2016.
142 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Amounts recognised in the income statement from continuing operations are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total Notes m m m m m m m m Defined contribution schemes 3.2 5.4 5.4 14.0 2.7 5.4 6.4 14.5 Defined benefit scheme current service cost and expenses 1.5 0.8 5.2 7.5 1.0 1.1 1.5 3.6 Total pension charge included in employee costs 6 4.7 6.2 10.6 21.5 3.7 6.5 7.9 18.1 Net finance expense income 8 1.1 1.0 0.5 0.6 1.0 0.6 0.2 0.6 Total recognised in the income statement 5.8 5.2 11.1 22.1 4.7 5.9 8.1 18.7 Defined benefit assets obligations for pension schemes 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of assets: Equities quoted 104.2 104.2 6.7 93.6 100.3 Bonds quoted 152.9 148.3 0.3 301.5 116.9 102.5 0.4 219.8 Property 4.1 4.1 2.1 2.1 Cash 1.1 2.3 0.1 3.5 2.3 2.9 5.2 Pensioner buy in policy 192.2 192.2 167.0 167.0 Total fair value of assets 350.3 254.8 0.4 605.5 295.0 199.0 0.4 494.4 Present value of funded obligations 410.3 253.0 15.5 678.8 323.5 173.8 12.5 509.8 Deficit surplus 60.0 1.8 15.1 73.3 28.5 25.2 12.1 15.4 UK pension plan actuarial assumptions are set out below: Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015 LSEG UK LCH UK LSEG UK LCH UK Inflation rate RPI 3.3% 3.3% 3.1% 3.1% Inflation rate CPI 2.3% 2.3% 2.1% 2.1% Rate of increase in salaries 3.3% n a 3.1% n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.6% 2.3% 3.4% 2.1% Discount rate 2.7% 2.7% 3.9% 4.0% Life expectancy from age 60 years Non-retired male member 28.8 29.7 28.7 30.5 Non-retired female member 30.5 32.2 30.6 32.9 Retired male member 27.4 28.1 27.2 28.3 Retired female member 29.3 30.4 29.3 30.5 The mortality assumptions are based on the standard tables S1NA published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS mortality survey, which was published in 2008.
We have used an allowance for CMI 2013 projections and applied a 1.25% 1.00% for male female long term trend rate in respect of future mortality improvements.
143 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Sensitivities The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the LSEG UK and LCH scheme obligations are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations 2016 Impact on scheme obligations 2015 LSEG UK LCH UK LSEG UK LCH UK Inflation rate CPI Increase by 0.5% Increase by 9.2m Increase by 12.1m Increase by 4.2m Increase by 8.5m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase by 0.5% Increase by 31.7m Increase by 19.6m Increase by 21.5m Increase by 10.1m Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Reduce by 36.7m Reduce by 38.6m Reduce by 24.1m Reduce by 20.8m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 16.5m Increase by 8.1m Increase by 10.1m Increase by 3.8m The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations during the year Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation as at beginning of year 323.5 173.8 12.5 509.8 331.9 185.8 13.1 530.8 Pension expense: Current service cost 4.6 4.6 1.8 1.8 Interest cost 12.4 6.6 0.5 19.5 12.1 6.8 0.2 19.1 Subtotal included in the income statement 12.4 6.6 5.1 24.1 12.1 6.8 2.0 20.9 Re-measurement losses gains : Actuarial losses gains financial assumptions 91.0 77.1 0.4 167.7 10.6 15.6 1.1 27.3 Actuarial losses gains demographic assumptions 1.7 2.7 0.3 0.7 Actuarial gains losses experience 5.4 0.1 5.5 0.7 0.1 0.6 Other actuarial movements through the income statement 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Subtotal included in other comprehensive income 87.3 74.4 161.7 9.9 15.6 1.3 26.8 Benefits paid 12.9 4.7 4.1 21.7 10.6 2.8 0.6 14.0 Foreign exchange 2.9 2.0 4.9 0.4 0.7 1.1 Benefit obligation as at end of year 410.3 253.0 15.5 678.8 323.5 173.8 12.5 509.8 Movement in fair value of scheme assets during the year Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets as at beginning of year 295.0 199.0 0.4 494.4 304.8 201.8 0.4 507.0 Pension income: Interest income 11.3 7.6 18.9 11.1 7.4 18.5 Subtotal included in the income statement 11.3 7.6 18.9 11.1 7.4 18.5 Re-measurement gains: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 54.7 49.0 103.7 11.9 7.1 19.0 Subtotal included in other comprehensive income 54.7 49.0 103.7 11.9 7.1 19.0 Contributions by employer 3.7 2.4 6.1 2.6 0.1 2.7 Expenses 1.5 1.5 1.0 1.0 Benefits paid 12.9 4.7 17.6 10.6 2.8 13.4 Foreign exchange 1.5 1.5 0.4 0.4 Fair value of scheme assets as at end of year 350.3 254.8 0.4 605.5 295.0 199.0 0.4 494.4 The actual gain on plan assets was 122.6 million 2015: loss 0.5 million.
144 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised The experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: Year ended 31 December 2016 Year ended 31 December 2015 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans m m m m m m Recognised up to beginning year 35.3 15.7 0.2 33.3 7.2 1.5 Net actuarial loss gain recognised in the year 32.6 25.4 0.2 2.0 8.5 1.3 Cumulative amount recognised at end of year 67.9 9.7 35.3 15.7 0.2 The last actuarial valuation of the LSEG UK defined benefit scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2015 by an independent qualified actuary.
According to the schedule of contributions of this valuation the Group expects to fund its defined benefit scheme deficit with payments of 2m in 2015, 3m in 2016, 3m in 2017 and 2m p. a. in years 2018 to 2022.
The last actuarial valuation of the LCH UK defined benefit scheme was carried out as at 30 June 2013 by an independent qualified actuary.
LCH UK section is currently in discussion on the results of the valuation as at 31 December 2016, which may result in an adjustment to contributions to the plan following completion during 2017.
The weighted average duration of the LSEG UK and LCH UK defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is estimated to be 18.8 years and 25.0 years, respectively.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 Notes m m m m Trade receivables 268.3 178.6 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 13.2 6.7 Trade receivables net 255.1 171.9 Amounts due from Group undertakings 34 436.2 547.9 Amounts due from associates 34 15.0 0.2 3.4 Group relief receivable 24.4 Other receivables 200.1 46.2 4.5 0.9 Prepayments and accrued income 166.4 113.0 5.0 1.4 636.6 331.3 473.5 550.2 The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of fair values.
Trade receivables that are not past due are not considered to be impaired as at 31 December 2016: these balances are spread across a number of high quality counterparties.
The ageing of past due debtors for the Group is as follows: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 1 Impaired Not impaired Impaired Not impaired m m m m 0 to 3 months past due 0.5 60.7 0.6 25.6 Greater than 3 months past due 12.7 59.5 6.1 29.0 13.2 120.2 6.7 54.6 1.
The ageing of past due debtors not impaired has been restated to reflect balances previously not included.
The carrying amount of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Sterling 167.4 126.7 Euro 199.4 79.6 US Dollar 236.0 108.3 Other Currencies 33.8 16.7 636.6 331.3 145 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m 1 January 6.7 5.0 Provision for impairment of receivables 6.8 3.0 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 1.0 1.1 Foreign exchange 0.7 0.2 31 December 13.2 6.7 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments by category The financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: Group Company Financial Financial Available for instruments at instruments at Held-tosale at fair fair value fair value Loans and maturity value through through profit Loans and through profit receivables assets OCI or loss Total receivables or loss Total 31 December 2016 m m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 320,528.9 320,528.9 Receivables for repurchase transactions 149,831.8 149,831.8 Other receivables from clearing members 9,077.2 9,077.2 Financial assets 15,975.2 9,419.3 25,394.5 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 53,553.2 53,553.2 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 212,462.2 15,975.2 329,948.2 558,385.6 Assets held at fair value 0.3 0.3 Total financial assets for CCP clearing business 212,462.2 15,975.2 329,948.5 558,385.9 Other non-current assets 88.2 88.2 12.5 12.5 Trade and other receivables 636.6 636.6 473.5 473.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1,150.7 1,150.7 1.2 1.2 Assets held at fair value 74.4 74.4 Available for sale financial assets 27.9 27.9 Total 214,337.7 16,077.5 329,948.5 560,363.7 487.2 487.2 There were no transfers between categories during the year.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group reclassified a 1.5 million loss 2015: 0.3 million gain from other comprehensive income to the income statement on disposal of available for sale financial assets.
146 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Group Company Financial Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities value through liabilities at value through at amortised cost profit and loss Total amortised cost profit and loss Total 31 December 2016 m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 320,528.9 320,528.9 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 149,831.8 149,831.8 Other payables to clearing members 88,117.6 88,117.6 Financial liabilities held at fair value Total financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 237,949.4 320,528.9 558,478.3 Trade and other payables 601.1 601.1 203.5 203.5 Borrowings 1,165.9 1,165.9 821.6 821.6 Provisions 10.4 10.4 Other non-current liabilities 17.0 48.5 65.5 Net investment hedges: Cross currency interest rate swaps 19.3 19.3 19.3 19.3 Total 239,743.8 320,596.7 560,340.5 1,025.1 19.3 1,044.4 There were no transfers between categories during the year.
The financial instruments of the Group and Company at the previous years balance sheet date were as follows: Group Company Financial Financial Available for instruments at instruments at Held-tosale at fair fair value fair value Loans and maturity value through through profit Loans and through profit receivables assets OCI or loss Total receivables or loss Total 31 December 2015 m m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 273,531.5 273,531.5 Receivables for repurchase transactions 127,603.0 127,603.0 Other receivables from clearing members 7,119.5 7,119.5 Financial assets 102.4 10,038.3 9,849.6 19,990.3 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 28,444.2 28,444.2 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 163,166.7 102.4 10,038.3 283,381.1 456,688.5 Assets held at fair value 1.4 1.4 Total financial assets for CCP clearing business 163,166.7 102.4 10,038.3 283,382.5 456,689.9 Other non-current assets 46.0 46.0 Trade and other receivables 331.3 331.3 550.2 550.2 Cash and cash equivalents 923.9 923.9 0.9 0.9 Assets held at fair value 8.5 8.5 Available for sale financial assets 61.0 61.0 Derivatives not designated as hedges Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.4 0.4 Derivatives used for hedging Net investment hedges: Cross currency interest rate swaps 47.5 47.5 47.5 47.5 Total 164,467.9 102.4 10,107.8 283,430.4 458,108.5 551.1 47.5 598.6 There were no transfers between categories during the prior year.
147 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Group Company Financial Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities value through liabilities at value through at amortised cost profit and loss Total amortised cost profit and loss Total 31 December 2015 m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 273,531.5 273,531.5 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 127,603.1 127,603.1 Other payables to clearing members 55,528.4 55,528.4 Financial liabilities held at fair value 0.3 0.3 Total financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 183,131.5 273,531.8 456,663.3 Trade and other payables 452.4 452.4 201.9 201.9 Borrowings 1,608.9 1,608.9 885.1 885.1 Provisions 10.8 10.8 Other non-current liabilities 33.8 31.5 65.3 Other non-current payables 43.5 43.5 Total 185,280.9 273,563.3 458,844.2 1,087.0 1,087.0 There were no transfers between categories during the prior year.
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2016: Group Quoted prices in active Significant observable Significant markets inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value: CCP trading assets Derivative instruments: Futures 3,892.9 3,892.9 Options 1,914.0 1,914.0 Commodities derivatives 79.8 79.8 Non-derivative instruments: CCP transactions 2.1 314,640.1 314,642.2 Financial assets: Equities and bonds 18,439.0 18,439.0 Securities 6,955.8 6,955.8 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 31,283.6 314,640.1 345,923.7 Assets held at fair value: Government bonds 74.4 74.4 Available for sale financial assets: Investment in unquoted equity Euroclear 7.3 7.3 Government bonds 20.6 20.6 At 31 December 2016, the Company had no derivative assets 2015: 47.5 million.
All derivatives in the Company in the previous year were cross currency interest rate swaps and classified as Level 2.
148 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Group Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: CCP trading liabilities Derivative instruments: Futures 3,892.9 3,892.9 Options 1,914.0 1,914.0 Commodities derivatives 79.8 79.8 Non-derivative instruments: CCP transactions 314,640.1 314,640.1 Financial liabilities held at fair value: Equities and bonds 2.1 2.1 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 5,888.8 314,640.1 320,528.9 Other non-current liabilities: Canadian dollar denominated Put Option 30.0 30.0 Euro denominated Put Option 9.3 9.3 GBP denominated Put Option 9.2 9.2 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross currency interest rate swaps 19.3 19.3 At 31 December 2016, the Company had derivative liabilities of 19.3 million 31 December 2015: nil.
All derivatives in the Company are cross currency interest rate swaps and classified as Level 2.
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2015: Group Quoted prices in active Significant observable Significant markets inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value: CCP trading assets Derivative instruments: Futures 6,546.1 6,546.1 Options 1,355.0 1,355.0 Commodities derivatives 42.8 42.8 Non-derivative instruments: CCP transactions 5.0 265,582.6 265,587.6 Financial assets: Equities and bonds 9,851.0 9,851.0 Securities 6,605.4 6,605.4 Government backed, bank issue certificates of deposits 3,432.9 3,432.9 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 27,838.2 265,582.6 293,420.8 Assets held at fair value: Government bonds 8.5 8.5 Available for sale financial assets: Investment in unquoted equity Euroclear 4.8 4.8 Government bonds 56.2 56.2 Derivatives not used for hedging: Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.4 0.4 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross currency interest rate swaps 47.5 47.5 Government bonds totalling 64.7 million as at 31 December 2015 have been re-classified from Level 2 to Level 1.
149 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Group Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: CCP trading liabilities Derivative instruments: Futures 6,546.1 6,546.1 Options 1,355.0 1,355.0 Commodities derivatives 42.8 42.8 Non-derivative instruments: CCP transactions 4.9 265,582.7 265,587.6 Financial liabilities held at fair value: Equities and bonds 0.3 0.3 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 7,949.1 265,582.7 273,531.8 Other non-current liabilities: Canadian dollar denominated Put Option 24.0 24.0 Euro denominated Put Option 7.5 7.5 The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 1, the fair value is based on market price quotations at the reporting date.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 2, the fair value is calculated using one or more valuation techniques e. g. the market approach or the income approach with market observable inputs.
The selection of the appropriate valuation techniques may be affected by the availability of the relevant inputs as well as the reliability of the inputs.
The inputs may include currency rates, interest rate and forward rate curves and net asset values.
The results of the application of the various techniques may not be equally representative of fair value, due to factors such as assumptions made in the valuation.
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year or in the prior year.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had no assets or liabilities classified as Level 3 2015: nil.
With the exception of Group borrowings, management has assessed that the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities categorised as Loans and receivables, Held to Maturity and Financial liabilities at amortised cost approximate their carrying values.
The fair value of the Groups borrowings is disclosed in Note 25.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities held at fair value consist largely of securities restricted in use for the operations of the Groups CCPs as managers of their respective clearing and guarantee systems.
The nature and composition of the CCP clearing business assets and liabilities are explained in the accounting policies section in Note 1.
As at 31 December 2016, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the CCP financial assets 2015: nil and none of these assets were past due 2015: nil.
Other non-current assets include deferred consideration receivable of 83.4 million 2015: nil, amounts due from associates of 3.0 million 2015: nil, tax and insurances of nil 2015: 42.5 million, rental deposits of 0.9 million 2015: 0.8 million, finance lease receivable of 0.6 million 2015: 1.9 million and other financial assets are 0.3 million 2015: 0.8 million.
Other non-current liabilities include deferred consideration of 2.6 million 2015: 17.1 million, non-current compensations of 2.2 million 2015: nil, put options of 48.5 million 2015: 31.5 million, rental deposits of 2.8 million 2015: 2.8 million, financial liabilities related to the clearing business of 8.1 million 2015: 13.9 million and other non-current liabilities of 1.3 million.
Other non-current payables included incentive compensation liabilities of nil 2015: 40.7 million, tax liabilities of nil 2015: 2.7 million and long term liabilities including tenant improvements and rentals of nil 2015: 0.1 million.
150 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Hedging activities and derivatives Derivative financial liabilities of 19.3 million represents the fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps amounting to 6 contracts totalling 300.0 million notional.
These instruments effectively exchange some of the obligations and coupons of the 2019 250.0 million bond from Sterling into Euros in order to more closely match the currency of borrowings to the Groups currency of net assets and earnings.
This also results in a reduction in balance sheet translation exposure on Euro denominated net assets and the protection of Sterling cash flows.
These swaps have been designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in the Italian group and qualify for effective hedge accounting.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised a net 54.2 million loss on mark to market valuation and settlement of these derivatives in reserves 2015: 24.8 million.
This amount includes a 12.6 million gain on the settlement of 200 million of cross currency interest rate swap contracts which matured in July 2016.
Foreign exchange forward contracts were arranged during the year to hedge the fair value of Euro and USD denominated exposures.
These hedges forward buy and sell payables and receivables denominated in Euro and USD, with the mark to market adjustments offsetting the hedged item revaluation in the income statement.
This also offers more predictable cash flows to the Group at maturity.
At 31 December 2016, payables of nil 2015: 17 million and US$12.9 million 2015: US$28.5 million and receivables of nil 2015: JPY4.2 billion were hedged forward into the next financial year.
The market value of the derivatives was nil 2015: 0.4 million in aggregate.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2016.
Gross Amount Net amount as amounts offset reported 31 December 2016 m m m Derivative financial assets 2,124,455.5 2,122,089.2 2,366.3 Reverse repurchase agreements 501,749.0 189,475.6 312,273.4 Total assets 2,626,204.5 2,311,564.8 314,639.7 Derivative financial liabilities 2,125,460.9 2,123,094.6 2,366.3 Reverse repurchase agreements 501,749.0 189,475.6 312,273.4 Total liabilities 2,627,209.9 2,312,570.2 314,639.7 151 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued The impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 is as follows: Gross Amount Net amount as amounts offset reported 31 December 2015 m m m Derivative financial assets 1,619,842.3 1,617,730.3 2,112.0 Reverse repurchase agreements 434,753.9 171,278.6 263,475.3 Total assets 2,054,596.2 1,789,008.9 265,587.3 Derivative financial liabilities 1,614,067.0 1,611,955.0 2,112.0 Reverse repurchase agreements 434,753.9 171,278.6 263,475.3 Total liabilities 2,048,820.9 1,783,233.6 265,587.3 All offset amounts are held in the CCP trading assets and CCP trading liabilities within the Groups financial instruments.
As CCPs, the Groups operating companies sit in the middle of members transactions and hold default funds and margin amounts as a contingency against the default of a member.
As such, further amounts are available to offset in the event of a default reducing the asset and liability of 314,639.7 million 2015: 265,587.3 million to nil.
Default funds for derivatives of 7,447.8 million 2015: 3,860.0 million, repurchase agreements of 1,991.1 million 2015: 1,481.9 million and other transactions of 97.2 million 2015: 197.5 million are held by the Group.
In addition, the Group holds margin of 91,265.6 million 2015: 52,437.7 million for derivatives, 27,937.3 million 2015: 21,683.1 million for repurchase agreements and 2,631.6 million 2015: 2,269.7 million for other transactions, as well as additional variation margin amounts which are not allocated by business line.
Included within member assets and liabilities are 279.3 million 2015: 277.5 million and 187.8 million 2015: 83.1 million respectively in relation to contracts where changes in net present value have settled to market available for members to opt in with effect from December 2015.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Cash at bank 595.6 359.0 1.2 0.9 Short-term deposits 555.1 564.9 1,150.7 923.9 1.2 0.9 Cash and cash equivalents are held with authorised counterparties of a high credit standing, in secured investments at LCH Group companies and at CC&G and unsecured interest bearing current and call accounts, short-term deposits and AAA rated money market funds elsewhere in the Group.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no material differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include amounts held by certain subsidiaries on behalf of their clearing members, the use of which is restricted to the operation of the clearers as managers of the clearing and guarantee system see note 21.
At 31 December 2016, cash and cash equivalents shown above include 847.6 million 2015: 719.1 million of amounts held by regulated entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
Total amounts set aside for regulatory and operational purposes include current assets held at fair value of 74.4 million 2015: 8.5 million, non-current assets held at fair value of 20.6 million 2015: 56.2 million.
All amounts are subject to regular reviews with regulators in the UK, France and Italy.
152 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 24.
Borrowings Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Current Bank borrowings and trade finance loans 465.4 680.0 274.4 88.4 Preferred securities 153.3 Bonds 250.2 250.2 618.7 930.2 274.4 338.6 Non-current Bonds 547.2 546.5 547.2 546.5 Preferred securities 132.2 547.2 678.7 547.2 546.5 The Group has the following committed bank facilities and unsecured notes: Interest rate Carrying value at percentage at 31 December 31 December Notes Facility 2016 2016 Type Expiry Date m m % Drawn value of Facilities Multi-currency revolving credit facility Jun 2017 600.0 0.6 LIBOR 0.6 Multi-currency revolving credit facility Nov 2021 600.0 466.0 LIBOR 0.45 Total Bank Facilities 1,200.0 465.4 Bonds due October 2019 Oct 2019 250.0 249.0 9.125 Bonds due November 2021 Nov 2021 300.0 298.2 4.75 LCH.
Clearnet Preferred Securities May 2017 170.5 153.3 6.576 Total Bonds and Preferred Securities 720.5 700.5 Total Committed Facilities 1,920.5 1,165.9 The carrying value of bank drawn facilities and bonds at 31 December 2015 was 680.0 million and 928.9 million, respectively.
Current borrowings The Groups total committed bank facilities of 1,200 million split into two facilities of 600 million remained in place during the financial year.
One facility will expire in June 2017 and the other was extended for another year to November 2021.
These facilities were partially utilised at 31 December 2016 with 465.4 million 2015: 680.0 million drawn which includes 2.0 million of deferred arrangement fees 2015: 1.7 million.
In July 2016, the Company repaid the 250 million unsecured bond at maturity using the Groups committed facilities.
Interest on these bonds was paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.679 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond was dependent on movements in the Companys credit rating with Moodys which remained at Baa1 during the financial year.
The bond coupon rate remained at 5.875% per annum until maturity.
Clearnet Group Limited issued through Freshwater Finance plc 200 million of Perpetual Preferred Securities to underpin its capital structure.
20 million of these Securities were subsequently repurchased in the market by LCH.
The coupon on these Securities is currently a fixed rate of 6.576% per annum and interest is paid annually.
In May 2017, this coupon will be replaced by a rate of 3 month Euribor plus 2.1% per annum, and is the trigger point for a first call of the Securities.
153 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued In addition, a number of Group entities have access to uncommitted operational, money market and overdraft facilities which support post trade activities and day to day liquidity requirements across its operations.
The aggregate drawings against these facilities as at 31 December 2016 was nil 2015: nil.
CC&G has direct intra-day access to refinancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements in the event of a market stress or participant failure.
In addition, it has arranged back-up credit lines with a number of commercial banks, which totaled 420 million at 31 December 2016 2015: 420 million, for overnight and longer durations to broaden its liquidity resources consistent with requirements under the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR.
LCH SA has a French banking licence and is able to access refinancing at the European Central Bank to support its liquidity position.
LCH Limited is deemed to have sufficient fungible liquid assets to maintain an appropriate liquidity position, and has direct access to certain central bank facilities to support its liquidity risk management in accordance with the requirements under the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR.
In accordance with the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures CPMI and International Organization of Securities Commissions IOSCO Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures PFMIs many Central Banks now provide for CCPs to apply for access to certain Central Bank facilities.
Non-current borrowings In June 2009, the Company issued a 250 million bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in October 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on the Companys credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors, both maintaining their respective Baa1 and BBB ratings.
The bond coupon remained at 9.125% per annum throughout the financial year.
In November 2012, the Company issued a 300 million bond under its Euro medium term notes programme launched at the same time which is unsecured and is due for repayment in November 2021.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in May and November each year.
The issue price of the bond was 100 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is fixed at 4.75% per annum.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Group m m m m Borrowings within one year 618.7 626.2 930.2 935.7 after more than one year 547.2 642.8 678.7 772.6 1,165.9 1,269.0 1,608.9 1,708.3 The fair values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Company m m m m Borrowings within one year 274.4 274.4 338.5 344.0 after more than one year 547.2 642.8 546.6 637.4 821.6 917.2 885.1 981.4 Borrowings are classified as Level 2 in the Groups hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments.
The fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a rate based on borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over LIBOR.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 713.4 255.8 457.6 885.1 368.5 516.6 Euro 352.0 255.8 607.8 132.2 368.5 500.7 USD 100.5 100.5 591.6 591.6 Total 1,165.9 1,165.9 1,608.9 1,608.9 The carrying amounts of the Companys borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 713.4 255.8 457.6 885.1 368.5 516.6 Euro 75.0 255.8 330.8 368.5 368.5 USD 33.2 33.2 Total 821.6 821.6 885.1 885.1 154 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 26.
Analysis of net debt Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Due within one year Cash and cash equivalents 1,150.7 923.9 1.2 0.9 Bank borrowings 465.4 680.0 274.4 88.4 Bonds 250.2 250.2 Preferred securities 153.3 Derivative financial assets 25.5 25.0 532.0 19.2 273.2 312.7 Due after one year Bonds 547.2 546.5 547.2 546.5 Preferred securities 132.2 Derivative financial assets 22.4 22.4 Derivative financial liabilities 19.3 19.3 Total net debt 34.5 637.1 839.7 836.8 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Group Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Decrease increase in cash in the year 213.5 90.2 0.3 0.7 Bond repayment 250.0 250.0 Bank loan repayments less new drawings 297.0 143.5 169.7 38.7 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 333.5 233.7 80.6 39.4 Foreign exchange movements 151.7 67.0 16.6 0.1 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 67.2 24.8 66.7 24.7 Bond valuation adjustment 0.9 0.5 Movement in deferred arrangement fees 0.3 0.3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 252.5 Cash disposed of as part of discontinued operations 185.2 Net debt at the start of the year 637.1 576.1 836.8 900.8 Net debt at the end of the year 34.5 637.1 839.7 836.8 27.
Provisions Group Property Other Total m m m 1 January 2016 10.2 0.6 10.8 Utilised during the year 1.1 1.1 Unwinding of discount on provision 1.2 1.2 Provisions no longer required 0.6 0.6 Additional charge in the year 0.3 0.3 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.2 31 December 2016 10.4 10.4 Current 0.6 0.6 Non-current 9.8 9.8 31 December 2016 10.4 10.4 The property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
The leases have between 1 and 12 years to expiry.
Other provisions primarily included legal provisions in relation to ongoing disputes with third parties and other claims against the Group.
The Company has no provisions 2015: nil.
155 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Share capital and share premium 1 Number of shares Ordinary shares Share premium Total Ordinary shares issued and fully paid millions m m m At 1 January 2015 346.9 23.9 957.7 981.6 Issue of shares 1.0 0.1 0.1 Issue of shares to the Employee Benefit Trust 0.4 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2015 348.3 24.0 960.0 984.0 Issue of shares to the Employee Benefit Trust 2.0 0.2 1.3 1.5 At 31 December 2016 350.3 24.2 961.3 985.5 79 86 1.
Ordinary Shares of 6 pence 79 86 79 86 The Board approved the allotment and issue of 180,308 ordinary shares of par value 6 pence at 755.34 pence 2015: 419,602 ordinary shares of par value 6 pence at 564.663 pence, to settle employee Save As You Earn share plans.
This generated a premium of 1.3 million 2015: 2.3 million.
79 86 In addition, the Group issued 1,750,000 ordinary shares 2015: 1,000,000 ordinary shares at par value 6 pence to the Employee Benefit Trust in relation to the Groups employee share option schemes.
Net cash flow generated from operations Group Company Year ended 31 Year ended 31 Year ended 31 Year ended 31 1 December 2016 December 2015 December 2016 December 2015 Notes m m m m Profit before taxation 468.3 433.7 516.7 46.5 Depreciation and amortisation 14,15 233.4 217.4 Disposal of work in progress 1.1 Profit on disposal of investment in a subsidiary 11 75.3 19.9 Net finance expense 8, 10 61.7 66.2 36.7 34.0 Dividend income 705.2 125.2 Share of loss from associates 16 4.9 Decrease in inventories 0.9 2.7 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 214.6 104.2 37.3 153.2 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 75.8 19.2 39.6 34.4 Gain on available for sale investments 1.1 Impairment of software 15 8.2 1.0 Research and development tax credit 0.6 Increase in CCP financial assets 30,384.9 31,702.3 Decrease in CCP clearing business liabilities 30,506.4 31,649.4 Increase decrease in assets held at fair value 2.8 2.7 Defined benefit pension obligation - contributions in excess of expenses charged 4.2 2.8 Net provisions movement during the year 6.3 4.6 Share scheme expense 37.4 32.1 Unrealised loss on revaluation on financial assets 1.6 Foreign exchange loss gains on operating activities 56.4 4.6 84.5 24.7 Purchase of investment funds 19.2 21.1 Investments in available for sale financial assets 9.8 63.7 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and assets held for sale 0.8 Cash generated from operations 598.3 670.4 65.0 118.2 Comprising: Ongoing operating activities 782.0 740.0 25.4 159.9 Non-recurring items 183.7 69.6 39.6 41.7 598.3 670.4 65.0 118.2 1 Investments in available for sale financial assets have been reclassified from cash flow from financing activities to net cash flow generated from operations.
156 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 30.
Commitments and contingencies Connected with the disposal of Russell Investment Management on 31 May 2016, the Group entered into an indemnity arrangement with the acquirer relating to certain ongoing litigation between the disposed business and third parties.
The provisions of the indemnity limit the Groups exposure to 50 per cent of any liability arising from this litigation up to a maximum of US$25 million.
No provision has been made in the financial statements of the Group relating to these matters, at this time, on the basis that it is not currently considered to be probable that any amount will be paid under the arrangement.
The Group had commitments of 54.0 million for professional fees relating to the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse.
The amounts are payable on the successful completion of the merger.
Contracted capital commitments and other contracted commitments not provided for in the financial statements of the Group were 0.3 million 2015: 0.9 million and 20.7 million 2015: 27.4 million, respectively.
In the normal course of business, the Group and the Company receive legal claims in respect of commercial, employment and other matters.
Where a claim is more likely than not to result in an economic outflow of benefits from the Group or the Company, a provision is made representing the expected cost of settling such claims.
31. Business combinations Acquisitions in the year to 31 December 2016 The Group made 1 acquisition in the year ended 31 December 2016.
Turquoise SwapMatch Limited On 11 July 2016, the Group acquired a 50% equity shareholding in SwapMatch Limited SwapMatch for a cash consideration of 1.0 million.
Immediately following the acquisition, the Group made a 0.5 million cash investment in exchange for an additional 10% equity in SwapMatch.
The investment was made to assist the business capital requirement and technology development.
The non-controlling interest did not participate in the share purchase, and as a result the Groups equity interest in SwapMatch increased to 60%.
The non-controlling interest has an option to sell the remaining 40% interest to the Group after a year, subject to mutual acceptance conditions, and as a result, a financial liability has been recorded in the Group balance sheet representing the fair value of the initial exercise price and associated earn out payments attached to the option.
The main activity of SwapMatch is to provide a neutral platform allowing prime brokers to match and net off synthetic equity positions with other brokers.
The provisional fair value of net assets acquired was nil and the Group recognised 1.0 million in goodwill: these fair values will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The goodwill represents the growth of future expected income streams from SwapMatchs customer base.
The goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2016, the estimated Group revenue for the year from continuing operations would have been 1,516.1 million, with operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items of 685.9 million.
These amounts have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies and based on available information.
Acquisitions in the year to 31 December 2015 The Group made 2 acquisitions during the year ended 31 December 2015.
Exactpro Systems Limited On 29 May 2015, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Exactpro Systems Limited Exactpro for a total consideration of US$6.8 million 4.3 million, comprising 2.2 million cash consideration and 2.1 million deferred consideration.
The main activity of Exactpro is to provide quality assurance to exchanges, investment banks, brokers and other financial sector organisations worldwide.
The fair value of net assets acquired was 1.4 million and the Group recognised 2.9 million in goodwill.
The valuation on the acquisition of Exactpro was finalised during the current year and resulted in no change to the fair values attributed on acquisition.
XTF Inc. On 21 December 2015, the Group acquired the trade and assets from XTF Inc. XTF for consideration of US$1.5 million 1.0 million.
Cash consideration amounting to 0.7 million was paid to the seller in the year ended 31 December 2015 and 0.3 million was paid on completion of the purchase price exercise.
XTF is a U. S. based provider of high-quality ETF data, analytics and ratings.
The Group recognised goodwill of 1.0 million and the fair value of net assets acquired was nil.
The valuation on the acquisition of XTF was finalised during the current year and resulted in no change to the fair values attributed on acquisition.
157 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Leases Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group leases various office properties and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: Property Equipment 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than one year 30.3 27.7 0.1 More than one year but less than five years 108.5 91.8 More than five years 76.8 82.6 215.6 202.0 0.1 Operating lease payments of 29.5 million 2015: 29.2 million were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property and 0.1 million 2015: 0.6 million in the year in relation to equipment.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases for property where the Group is lessor are due as follows: Property 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Leases expiring in: m m Less than one year 6.6 6.6 More than one year but less than five years 21.4 25.0 More than five years 4.7 7.8 32.7 39.4 Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has finance lease contracts for certain property rentals and software licenses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Minimum Present value of Minimum Present value of payments payments payments payments Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than one year 0.2 0.2 More than one year but less than five years Total minimum lease payments 0.2 0.2 Less amounts representing finance charges Present value of minimum lease payments 0.2 0.2 The Company has no lease commitments 2015: none.
Finance lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has finance lease contracts for certain property rentals and software licenses.
Future minimum lease payments receivable under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than one year 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.6 More than one year but less than five years 0.7 0.7 1.5 1.4 More than five years Total minimum lease payments 1.5 1.4 2.2 2.0 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.1 0.2 Present value of minimum lease payments 1.4 1.4 2.0 2.0 The Company has no lease commitments 2015: none.
158 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 33.
Share Schemes The London Stock Exchange Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2016 AGM, has two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares the latter element is not applicable to executive directors.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 95.
Awards are granted at nil cost to employees.
The SAYE scheme and International Sharesave Plan provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value during the year.
The Group has an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end, 376,456 2015: 462,378 shares were held by the trust, funded in part by an interest free loan from the Group and in part by the issue of 1.9 million shares 2015: 1.4 million shares.
The Company has no employees but, in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual contractual Number life Number life outstanding Years outstanding Years Share options Less than 7 100 4,750 Between 7 and 8 20,140 Between 8 and 9 3,347 11,452 SAYE Less than 10 190,956 Between 10 and 20 436,403 0.2 490,956 0.3 More than 20 456,439 1.0 238,905 0.4 LTIP Nil 5,557,663 1.4 6,253,668 1.0 Total 6,453,952 1.4 7,210,827 1.4 159 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued The fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the valuation were as follows: Share Save Performance Shares Matching Shares Restricted Share Award Plan 17 March 23 June 14 October 18 March 23 June 14 October 17 March 23 June 14 October 5 May 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Grant date share price 28.90 27.35 28.43 28.92 27.35 28.43 28.90 27.35 28.43 26.14 Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 0.8 years 0.5 years to 0.38 years 3.16 years to 3 years 2.7 years to 3.54 years Exercise price n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a.
The approach adopted by the Group in determining the fair value for the Performance and Matching Shares granted during the year was based on a Total Shareholder Return pricing model which incorporates TSR and EPS performance conditions and references the vesting schedules of the awards.
For all other share awards, including the Share Save Plan, the Black-Scholes model was used.
The significant inputs into both models are the share price at grant date, expected volatility, dividend yields and annual risk-free interest rate.
The volatility assumption is based on the historical 3-year volatility as at the date of grant.
The risk-free interest rate represents the yield available on a UK zero-coupon government bond on the date of grant for a term commensurate with the vesting period of the award.
The expected life refers to the time from the date of grant to the date the awards vest.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
Transactions with Related Parties Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 14.9 13.0 Pensions 1.2 0.9 Share-based payments 17.8 13.1 33.9 27.0 160 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings The Company has loans with some subsidiary undertakings.
Details as at 31 December 2016 are shown in the table below: Amount in millions Interest in millions owed to due from as at charge credit Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Interest rate as at 31 December 31 December Loan counterparty 2016 2015 Term 31 December 2016 2016 2015 London Stock Exchange plc 111.3 m 170.9 m 25 years from May 2006 with LIBOR plus 4.1 m 4.4 m 5 equal annual repayments 2% per annum commencing in May 2027.
London Stock Exchange Employee 12.5m 21.0m Repayable on demand.
Noninterest Benefit Trust bearing London Stock Exchange Group Holdings 12.8 m 97.7m Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus 0.2m 2.4m Italy Limited utilisation date which was April 2013.
1.5% per annum London Stock Exchange Group Holdings 0.8m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.5% per Italy Limited utilisation date which was April 2013. annum London Stock Exchange Group Holdings 399.7m 340.0m Tenth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 18.5m 18.3m Limited utilisation date which was 4.0% per annum October 2009.
London Stock Exchange Group Holdings $ 105.0 m $ 62.3 m Tenth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus $ 4.3 m $ 1.4 m Limited utilisation date which was 4.0% per annum October 2009.
London Stock Exchange Group Holdings 43.9 m 35.5 m Tenth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus 1.4 m 1.1 m Limited utilisation date which was 4.0% per annum October 2009.
Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus 1.2% LSE Reg Holdings Limited 18.4m 13.5m utilisation date which was July 2013. per annum 0.2m LSE Reg Holdings Limited 2.4 m 1.0 m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.2% per utilisation date which was July 2013. annum London Stock Exchange C Limited 1.0 m 48.4m Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus 1.5% 0.7m utilisation date which was April 2012. per annum London Stock Exchange C Limited 12.2m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.5% per 0.2m utilisation date which was April 2012. annum London Stock Exchange Group Holdings $ 2.9 m $17.4m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.5% per $0.3m $0.1m Luxembourg Ltd utilisation date which was December annum 2014.
LSEG Employment Services Limited 53.4m 11.0m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.2% per 0.5m 0.1m utilisation date which was January annum 2015.
London Stock Exchange Group 6.7 m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 0.9% per 0.1 m Services Limited utilisation date which was January annum 2016.
During the year, the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 11.3 million 2015: 5.0 million to LSEG Employment Services Limited, 6.3 million 2015: 4.3 million to LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited, 4.2 million 2015: 3.1 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italia S. p. A group of companies, 1.3 million 2015: 1.9 million to FTSE Group, 1.0 million 2015: 0.7 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Inc, 0.9 million 2015: 1.1 million to Millennium Group, 0.8 million 2015: 0.7 million to LSEG US Holdco Inc. 0.3 million 2015: 0.2 million to Turquoise Global Holdings Limited, 0.3 million 2015: nil to LSEG Business Services Colombo Private Limited, 0.2 million 2015: 0.3 million to SSC Global Business Services Limited, 0.2 million 2015: 0.2 million to UnaVista Limited and 0.2 million 2015: 3.7 million to London Stock Exchange plc.
In the current year, the Company received dividends of 407.8 million from LSEG US HoldCo Inc 2015: nil, 168.8 million from London Stock Exchange plc 2015: 125.2 million, 64.6 million from LSEGH Luxembourg Ltd 2015: nil and 64.0 million from LSE Group Holdings Italy Ltd 2015: nil.
The Company recognised 60.8 million income and 42.2 million expenses with Group undertakings in relation to corporate recharges.
At 31 December 2016, the Company had 107.3 million 2015: 47.5 million other receivables due from Group companies and other payables of 55.7 million 2015: 7.2 million owed to Group undertakings.
In the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised 2.2 million revenue 2015: nil and 1.1 million other income from associates 2015: nil.
The Group had 18.0 million 2015: 0.2 million receivable from associates which includes a 3.0 million loan 2015: nil presented within other non-current assets, and 15.0 million 2015: 0.2 million of current receivable presented within trade and other receivables.
All transactions with associates were carried out on an arms length basis.
161 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Events after the reporting period Business combinations On 3 January 2017, the Group acquired entire share capital in Mergent Inc. Mergent, a leading global provider of business and financial information on public and private companies, for cash consideration of US$144 million 116.7 million.
The acquisition will support the growth of FTSE Russells core index offering, supplying underlying data and analytics for the creation of a wide range of indices.
At the date of issue of these financial statements, the initial accounting for the Mergent business combination has not been completed and as such certain disclosures in respect of the acquisition cannot be made, including: the fair value and major classes of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: the goodwill arising on the business combination: the qualitative factors contributing to the recognition of goodwill: and the amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The acquisition accounting for Mergent will be finalised within twelve months of the acquisition date.
Disposal of businesses On 3 January 2017, the Group announced it had agreed the sale of the LCH SA business to Euronext N. V for an irrevocable cash offer of 510 million 434.9 million.
The proposed sale is subject to the review and approval by the European Commission in connection with the proposed merger of London Stock Exchange Group plc and Deutsche Brse AG, which was announced on 16 March 2016, and the receipt of various regulatory and other consents and approvals, including completion of the Works Council consultation process.
It is also conditional on the successful closing of the Merger.
The LCH SA business forms part of the LCH Group CGU and the Group has determined that there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in the LCH Group CGU.
Details are provided in note 15.
On 28 February 2017, the Group completed the sale of Information Services Professional Solutions ISPS a business line of BIt Market Services S. p. A. for a cash consideration of 10.5 million 9.0 million.
The net assets disposed contained brands, intellectual property and capitalised research and development investments, used for carrying out the ISPS business along with identified agreements with suppliers and clients and employment relationships.
The ISPS business forms part of the Information Services segment and is contained within the Italian Group Information Services CGU.
162 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements 36.
Other Statutory Information Auditors remuneration payable to Ernst and Young LLP and its associates comprise the following: Year ended Year ended 31 31 December December 2016 2015 m m Audit of parent and consolidated financial statements 0.5 0.5 Audit of subsidiary companies 2.1 1.5 Audit related assurance services 0.4 0.2 Other non-audit services: Taxation 0.2 0.3 Other assurance services 0.2 0.1 Total 3.4 2.6 Further details of the services provided by Ernst and Young LLP are given in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 64 67.
Directors emoluments comprise the following: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 m m Salary and fees 3.3 3.2 Performance bonus 3.2 3.0 Gains made on share awards 7.3 4.5 Benefits 0.3 0.3 14.1 11.0 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 0.7 0.6 14.8 11.6 During the year, one Director 2015: one had retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution schemes and one Director 2015: one had retirement benefits accruing under a defined benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors emoluments are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 95.
163 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued Related undertakings A list of the Groups subsidiaries as at 31 December 2016 is given below including the percentage of each class held and the Groups ownership percentages.
The share ownership percentage records the percentage of each subsidiarys share capital owned within the LSEG Group.
Shares owned directly by LSEG plc are listed as being a direct shareholding, shares owned by other LSEG Group companies are listed as an indirect group interest shareholding.
Where more than one LSEG Group company owns shares in a subsidiary these interests have been added together.
The ultimate economic interest percentage on the other hand does not show actual share ownership.
It records LSEG plcs effective interest in the subsidiary, allowing for situations where subsidiaries are owned by partly owned intermediate subsidiaries.
All subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of Registered Office Address Identity of each Direct or indirect holding Share LSEG plc incorporation class of share held ownership ultimate in the subsidiary % economic undertaking interest % BANQUE CENTRALE fide COMPENSATION France 18 Rue du Quatre-Septembre, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 LCH Group SA 75002, Paris, France Bit Market Services S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect group interest 99.99 99.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy Bondclear Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect group interest 99.99 99.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy Cassa Di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. Italy Via Tomacelli, 146, 00186 Rome, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 99.99 CC&G Italy CommodityClear Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA Elite Club Deal Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Elite S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 99.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy Equityclear Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA EuroMTS Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary A Indirect group interest 100 60.36 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS EuroTLX SIM S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect group interest 70 69.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy Exactpro Systems Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Exactpro Systems, LLC United States 4040 Civic Center Drive, Member Interest Indirect group interest 100 100 Suite 200, San Rafael, California, 94903, United States Exactpro, LLC Russian Building 4, 20A 2nd Yuzhnoportoviy Member Interest Indirect group interest 100 100 Federation Proeezd, Moscow, 115088, Russian Federation ForexClear Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA Frank Russell Company United States c o CT Corporation System, Common Indirect group interest 100 100 505 Union Ave SE, Suite 120, Olympia, Washington, 98501, United States FTSE Australia Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS FTSE Beijing Consulting Limited China Room 02D-H, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 6 F Dongwai Diplomatic Building, 23 Dongzhimenwai Dajie, Beijing, China FTSE Japan Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS FTSE Americas, Inc United States 80 State Street, Albany, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 New York, 12207- 2543 FTSE China Index Ltd Hong Kong 6th Floor, Alexandra House, 18 Chater Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Road, Central Hong Kong FTSE International France Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS FTSE International Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 6th Floor, Alexandra House, 18 Chater Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Road, Central Hong Kong 164 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of Registered Office Address Identity of each Direct or indirect holding Share LSEG plc incorporation class of share held ownership ultimate in the subsidiary % economic undertaking interest % FTSE International India Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS FTSE International Italy Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS FTSE International MEA Ltd United Arab Office 50, Level 15 Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Emirates The Gate, PO Box 121208, Dubai, United Arab Emirates FTSE International Brasil Representacoes LTDA Brazil Edificio Argentina, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Praia fide Botafogo 228, 16 andar, Sala1617, Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil FTSE International Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS FTSE Mexico Sociedad fide Mexico Paseo fide los Tamarindos 400, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Responsabilidad Limitada fide Capital Variable 5 piso, Col. Bosques fide las Lomas, Mexico City, C. P. 05120, Mexico 1 FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Inc Canada 70 York Street, Suite 1520, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 74.55 Toronto, Ontario, Canada 1 FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary A Indirect group interest 100 72.74 Wales London, England and Wales, Ordinary B 11.03 1.81 EC4M 7LS Gatelab Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 67 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Gatelab S. r. l. Italy Via dei Pentri, 161, Ordinary Indirect group interest 67 67 86170, Isernia, Italy globeSettle SA Luxembourg 16 boulevard d'Avranches, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Luxembourg, L-1160, Luxembourg Innovative Trading Systems UK Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Innovative Trading Systems, LLC Russian 20A, St. 4 2nd Yuzhnoportyovy, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Federation Proezd, 115088 Moscow, Russian Federation International Commodities Clearing England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 House Limited Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA LCH Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA LCH Group Luxembourg S. A. R. L Luxembourg 52 rue Charles Martel, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Luxembourg, L-2134, Luxembourg LCH Group Funding LP England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Capital Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, Contribution EC3N 1EA LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, Non Voting EC3N 1EA Ordinary Voting 57.8 LCH.
Clearnet LLC United States c o The Corporation Trust Company, Units Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, United States LCH GP Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA LCH Group Holdings Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA LCH Pensions Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA LCH PLP Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA London Stock Exchange C Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange Connectivity England and 10 Paternoster Square, Partnership Indirect group interest 100 100 Solutions LP Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS 165 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of Registered Office Address Identity of each Direct or indirect holding Share LSEG plc incorporation class of share held ownership ultimate in the subsidiary % economic undertaking interest % London Stock Exchange Group Services England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Limited Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Limited Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange Group Holdings England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 R Limited Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Italia S. p. A Milano, Lombardia, Italy London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange Plc England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange Group Reg Holdings England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Limited Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEG M Financing Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEG Business Services Colombo Private Sri Lanka Trace Expert City, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Limited Maradana, Colombo 10, Sri Lanka LSEG Business Services Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEG Derivatives Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEG Employment Services Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEG Information Services US, INC. United States CT Corporation Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange Street Wilmington Delaware 19801 United States LSEG LuxCo 1 S. a. r. l Luxembourg 16 boulevard dAvranches, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Luxembourg, L-1160, Luxembourg LSEG LuxCo 2 S. a. r. l Luxembourg 16 boulevard dAvranches, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Luxembourg, L-1160, Luxembourg LSEG Pension Trustees Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEG Post Trade Services Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEG US Holdco, Inc United States c o Corporation Service Company Common Direct 100 100 2711 Centerville Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19808 United States LSEGH I LLC United States c o Capital Services Inc Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 1675 State Street Suite B, Dover, Delaware 19901 United States LSEGH Luxembourg Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEGH Inc. United States c o Capital Services Inc Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 1675 State Street Suite B, Dover, Delaware 19901 United States LSEM LLC Mongolia Landmark 7th Floor, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Chinggis Avenue Ulaanbaatar Mongolia 166 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of Registered Office Address Identity of each Direct or indirect holding Share LSEG plc incorporation class of share held ownership ultimate in the subsidiary % economic undertaking interest % March fide TitreS France MTS France France 18 Rue du Quatre-Septembre, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 60.36 75002, Paris, France Millennium Information Technologies India 83 C, Mittal Towers, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 India Private Limited Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021, India Millennium Information Technologies Sri Lanka No 1 Millennium Drive, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Private Limited Malabe, Sri Lanka Millennium IT USA Inc United States 1013 Centre Road, Suite 403S, Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19805, United States Millennium IT Services Private Limited Sri Lanka No 48 Marcus Fernando Mawatha, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Colombo 07, Sri Lanka Millennium IT Software Private Limited Sri Lanka No.
01 Millennium Drive, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Malabe, Sri Lanka Millennium Software Canada Inc Canada Suite 2400, 333 Bay Street, Common Indirect group interest 100 100 Toronto, Ontario, Canada Monte Titoli S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect group interest 98.88 98.87 Milano, Lombardia, Italy MTS Markets International Inc. United States 14 Wall Street Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 60.36 Suite 4G New York NY 10005 United States MTS S. p. A. Italy Via Tomacelli, 146, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 60.36 00186 Rome, Italy Mtsnext Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 74.55 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Nexus Marque Sdn.
Malaysia Suite 2-4, Level 2 Tower Block, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Menara Millennium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia Repoclear Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA SSC Global Business Services Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Stock Exchange Holdings Limited The England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS SwapAgent Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA Swapclear Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA The London Clearing House Limited England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA London Produce Clearing House Limited The England and Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 57.8 Wales London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA The London Stock Exchange Retirement Plan England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Trustee Company Limited Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Turquoise Global Holdings Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary A Indirect group interest 100 51.36 Wales London, England and Wales, Ordinary B EC4M 7LS 2 Turquoise Swapmatch Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary A Indirect group interest 100 30.82 Wales London, England and Wales, Ordinary B EC4M 7LS Turquoise Trading Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 51.36 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS UnaVista LEI Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Unavista Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect group interest 100 100 Wales London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS 1.
The absolute indirect group interest and direct holdings by the London Stock Exchange Group is 75.75% 2.
The absolute indirect group interest and direct holdings by Turquoise Global Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange Group, is 60% 167 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Notes to the financial statements continued The Groups associate undertakings were: Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of Registered Office Address Identity of each Direct or indirect holding Share LSEG plc incorporation class of share held ownership ultimate in the subsidiary % economic undertaking interest % Curve Global Limited England and 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary A Direct 30 26 Wales London, England and Wales, Ordinary B EC4M 7LS MTS Associated Markets S. A. Belgium Rue des Comdiens, 16-22, 1000 Ordinary Indirect group interest 23.3 14.07 Brussels, Belgium 1.
The accounting reference dates for all of the associates are 31 December.
