L Lo on nd do on S n St to oc ck E k Ex xc ch ha an ng ge G e Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A Annu nnua al l R Rep epo or rt t D fide ecem cemb ber er 2 20 01 16 6 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Company Act 2006, other applicable laws and regulations, including the requirements of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and, as regards the Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of the other irregularities.
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss for that year.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: and financial information on the Companys website.
select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of them consistently: financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Strategic make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable: Report sections of the Annual Report on pages 2 53.
In particular, the current economic conditions continue to pose a number of risks and uncertainties for the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Group and these are set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 47. requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other The Financial Risk Management objectives and policies of the Group and the events and conditions on the Groups and the Companys financial position exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk are and financial performance: discussed on pages 50 51.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through the Groups accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any cash resources and available credit facilities.
Committed term funding at 31 material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and December 2016 was 1,903.3 million which is committed until June 2017 or beyond Period ended 2015: 2,132.2 million, described further in the Financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is Review on pages 38 43. inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into preparing the financial statements.
account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, which show that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
10 100 0 L Lo on nd do on S n St to oc ck E k Ex xc ch ha an ng ge G e Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A Annu nnua al l R Rep epo or rt t D fide ecem cemb ber er 2 20 01 16 6 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 54 55 of this Annual Report confirms that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group taken as a whole: the report of the Directors contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
By Order of the Board Lisa Condron Group Company Secretary 3 March 2017 1 101 01 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc Our opinion on the financial statements Overview of our audit approach In our opinion: Risks of material Risk that goodwill and purchased intangible assets London Stock Exchange Group plcs the Company, the Group consolidated misstatement may be impaired financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Risk of fraud in recognition of revenue in secondary parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for capital markets trading, fees or revenue shares for the year then ended: clearing arrangements, and information services revenue accruals the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Risk that the divestment of the Russell Investment with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the Management business was accounted for incorrectly European Union EU : Risk that the implementation of the Oracle finance the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared system could lead to errors in data integrity, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied accounting or financial reporting in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of seven components and audit the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the procedures on specific balances for a further requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group 13 components.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The components where we performed full or specific What we have audited audit procedures accounted for approximately 99% London Stock Exchange Group plcs financial statements comprise: of the Groups revenue, pre-tax profit, adjusted pre-tax profit measure used to calculate materiality, Group Parent company and total assets.
Consolidated balance sheet as Balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Materiality Overall Group materiality is 23.3 million which at 31 December 2016 represents 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit from Consolidated income statement Cash flow statement for the year continuing operations calculated by including the for the year then ended then ended impact of the amortisation of purchased intangible Consolidated statement of Statement of changes in equity comprehensive income for the for the year then ended assets, but excluding other non-recurring items as year then ended disclosed in Note 7 of the financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement Related notes 1 to 36 to the for the year then ended financial statements Our assessment of risk of material misstatement Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources Related notes 1 to 36 to the financial statements in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards not express any opinion on these individual areas.
the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
102 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Independent Auditors Report KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK COMMITTEE Risk that goodwill and purchased We confirmed our understanding of the impairment assessment process and assessed No material issues intangible assets may be impaired the design effectiveness of key controls, concluding that a substantive audit approach were identified when Balance of 3.9 billion, prior year comparative should be adopted.
executing the audit 3.5 billion procedures over the For five material cash generating units CGU, we examined the cash flow forecasts risk that goodwill and which support managements impairment assessment and tested compliance with the The Group holds significant intangible assets purchased intangible requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
We assessed the reasonableness of those on its balance sheet, including goodwill, assets may be forecasts and the evidence supporting the underlying assumptions, by comparing to customer relationships, brands, software licenses, impaired.
Board-approved budgets, considering prior periods budget accuracy, and comparing and intellectual property.
the expected growth rates to relevant market expectations.
We concluded that On an annual basis, management are required the WACC discount In respect of purchased intangible assets, we tested managements assessment as to perform an impairment assessment for rates, LTGRs, customer to whether indicators of impairment exist, by reference to factors specific to each class goodwill, and to assess for indicators of impairment retention rates and of assets.
Examples included customer retention rates within specific business lines in respect of other intangible assets.
Where cash flow forecasts and the current returns made on intellectual property.
indicators of impairment of other intangible used by management assets are identified, a full impairment assessment We tested the weighted-average cost of capital WACC discount rates assigned to in the impairment is performed.
These assessments involve significant each of the CGUs, as well as the long-term growth rates LTGR, with reference to assessment are within management judgement in the application our understanding of the business, comparisons to other similar companies and a reasonable range as of valuation models and assumptions.
As a consequence, there is a greater risk of The WACC discount rates and LTGRs applied within the impairment model were We did not identify misstatement in these balances, either by fraud critically assessed by EY valuation specialists, including comparison to economic and any additional factors or error, including through the potential override industry forecasts where appropriate.
We considered evidence available to support the that would lead to of controls by management.
WACC discount rates and LTGRs used, and consistency with findings from other areas a revision of the of the audit.
amortisation periods Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee applied for purchased page 66 : Accounting policies page 120 : Together with EY valuation specialists, we assessed specific inputs in the determination intangible assets.
and Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial of the WACC discount rates, including the risk-free rate, equity beta and market size Statements pages 137 138. premium, along with gearing and cost of debt.
Such inputs were benchmarked against We concluded that observed risk rates in markets where the Group operates.
the carrying value The risk has neither increased nor decreased of goodwill and in the current year.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the key inputs including WACC discount rates, purchased intangible LTGRs and customer retention rates to the impairment model, to understand the impact assets is materially that reasonably possible changes to key assumptions would have on the overall carrying correct as at value of the goodwill and purchased intangible assets at the balance sheet date.
We performed recalculation of the amortisation of purchased intangible assets, and assessed that the amortisation policy had been appropriately applied.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the remaining amortisation period by comparing managements forecasts against historic data.
We also tested the reasonableness of the translation of non-Sterling balances into the Groups presentation currency.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in six components, which covered 99.5% of the risk amount.
103 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK COMMITTEE Risk of fraud in recognition of revenue in We confirmed our understanding of the secondary capital markets trading, fee and No material issues secondary capital markets trading, fees or revenue shares clearing arrangement and information services revenue accruals were identified from revenue shares for clearing arrangements, processes.
On secondary capital markets trading process, we performed testing of the the execution of our and information services revenue accruals operating effectiveness of key controls in one full scope component and concluded that audit procedures over Balance of 0.8 billion, prior year comparative a substantive audit approach should be adopted in other components that are in scope the risk of fraud in 0.7 billion as well as in relation to the information services revenue accruals process.
We performed recognition of revenue testing of the operating effectiveness of key controls in fee and revenue shares clearing in secondary capital Compensation tied to the performance of the entity arrangement process.
markets trading, fees may create an incentive for management to or revenue shares for We considered whether the revenue recognition policy is appropriate and in accordance manipulate results.
clearing arrangements, with IFRS as adopted by the EU: performing testing on a sample basis to gain assurance and information We have identified three revenue streams as having that the selected contracts had been accounted for in accordance with the policy.
services revenue heightened risk of misstatement: We performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order to identify accruals.
Secondary capital markets revenue for certain and test the risk of misstatement arising from management override of controls.
We concluded that the business lines involves multiple pricing We performed other substantive and transactional testing, including the review of debit revenue recognised structures based on product types, customer balances, unusual items and trends.
related to secondary activity and volumes.
This complexity leads to capital markets a heightened risk that revenue may not be We also performed cut-off testing to obtain evidence that revenue is recognised in the trading, fees or revenue recognised appropriately, either as a result correct period.
We selected transactions on a sample basis before and after the year shares for clearing of fraud or error.
end to ascertain the appropriateness of revenue recognition.
arrangements, and Contracts relating to fee or revenue sharing in Secondary capital markets trading information services respect of clearing arrangements, between the We increased our standard sample size for transactional testing by at least 3 times revenue accruals Groups CCPs and third party participants, in according to our statistical sampling methodology, to respond to the risk of fraud.
for the year ended some cases involve complex calculations to We agreed a random selection of transactions back to supporting audit evidence, 31 December 2016 determine the appropriate level of revenue such as receipt of cash and invoices.
Where appropriate, we also recalculated the is materially correct.
to recognise within the Group.
fee charged and checked back to the pricing policy and tariff.
Information services revenue accruals can We reconciled trading platform data to the general ledger and tested material require estimation, for instance based on topside adjustments.
prior billings or preliminary usage.
We also used analytical tools to identify outliers in high volumes of transactional data As a consequence, there is a greater risk of for focused follow-up testing.
This analysis included comparing the fee per transaction misstatement in these balances, either by fraud to volume notional traded and investigating any particularly high values which were or error, including through the potential override outliers to the overall population.
Fees or revenue shares for clearing arrangements Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee We tested revenue and fee sharing calculations for all material business lines page 66 : Accounting policies page 119 : on a sample basis and checked for consistency with the underlying contracts.
and Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial We also used analytical tools in the analysis of the related revenue streams.
This included analysing monthly trading volumes and their correlation with The risk has neither increased nor decreased in the monthly revenue recognised: anomalies were investigated.
Information services revenue accruals We selected a sample of revenue accruals using a lower testing threshold when compared to standard transaction testing approach.
For the selected samples, we obtained supporting evidence, including customer input consent, for accrued amounts.
For assets under management AUM based revenues, we tested the calculations and checked back to the supporting agreements.
We also validated the AUM used in the calculation to an independent third party source.
For Q4 accruals, we challenged management on the appropriateness of using Q3 information for purposes of the accruals, and performed corroborative testing.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 10 components, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
104 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Independent Auditors Report KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK COMMITTEE Risk that the divestment of the Russell We confirmed our understanding of the divestment process and assessed the design No material issues Investment Management business was effectiveness of key controls, concluding that a substantive audit approach should were identified from accounted for incorrectly be adopted.
the execution of our Loss on discontinued operations 69.6 million, audit procedures We evaluated managements assessment of the closing date being 31 May 2016 prior year comparative 47.7 million profit over the risk that the for accounting purposes and concluded that it is in accordance with IFRS as adopted divestment of the by the EU.
In light of the materiality and non-standard nature Russell IM business of this transaction, which occurred in H1 2016, We inspected the final signed sale and purchase agreement SAPA and agreed was accounted for there is a risk that the divestment was accounted the purchase consideration of US$860 million to the SAPA and the cash proceeds to the incorrectly.
We concluded that Further, ongoing arrangements between Russell We audited the deferred consideration element of the purchase price amounting the accounting and the Investment Management Russell IM and the to US$150 million which is being deferred over the next four years.
We engaged our EY related disclosures of Group may not be identified or appropriately valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of the discount rate.
We performed the divestment of the accounted for.
a corroborative assessment, including consideration of credit rating and yields, Russell IM business maturity tenor and illiquidity premium.
is materially correct, Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee and the ongoing page 67 : Accounting policies page 118 : and Russell IMs assets and liabilities amounting to 1.2 billion and 0.5 billion, respectively, arrangements between Notes 10 and 11 of the Consolidated Financial as at 31 May 2016, which were derecognised as at the date of disposal, were audited.
Russell IM and the Statements pages 133 134.
We audited managements calculation of the loss on disposal after taxation of Group have been This is a new risk this year.
Our audit approach and 88.2 million.
appropriately assessment of key areas of audit focus changes in identified, accounted We tested the related costs of disposal amounting to 12.0 million on a sample basis, response to circumstances affecting the Group.
and agreed them to the underlying documentation i. e. invoices and agreements.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the allocation of the expenses to entities within the Group, and the related tax impact.
We tested the adjustments to the purchase consideration and agreed them to the SAPA or underlying support, including review of correspondence with the purchasers and validating managements position with managements third party advisors.
The adjustments to the purchase consideration will be finalised when the completion statement has agreed by both parties.
We tested the accuracy and appropriateness of the recycling of foreign exchange translation reserve relating to the Russell IM business.
We involved tax specialists in auditing the tax arising on the divestment of the Russell IM business.
We assessed the ongoing arrangements between Russell IM and the Group to ensure that they have been appropriately identified and accounted for.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in one component, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
105 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK COMMITTEE Risk that the implementation of the Oracle We confirmed our understanding of the implementation of the Oracle finance Our testing identified finance system could lead to errors in data system, including confirming our understanding of the relevant processes pre and exceptions in respect integrity, accounting or financial reporting post Oracle implementation.
of certain IT general controls: these We assessed the following areas of the migration project: The implementation of a new finance system exceptions have could lead to errors in data integrity, accounting Governance verification of approvals at different stages of the project and meeting been mitigated either or financial reporting.
minute reviews: by testing relevant compensating controls Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee Data conversion evaluation of data migration and conversion procedures, and which were concluded page 67. verification of approvals for data migration: as effective, or This is a new risk this year.
Our audit approach and Migration procedures inspection of documentation for data migration procedures, performing additional assessment of key areas of audit focus changes in evaluation of migration plan and execution against the plan: audit procedures.
As response to circumstances affecting the Group.
a result, we concluded System interface inspection of documentation around the process flows and that we are able to understanding the data flows into Oracle: and place reliance on the Access review inspection of documentation confirming initial load of users and Oracle finance system.
testing of IT general controls over user administration processes.
We concluded that We performed audit procedures over the migrated data in the new system to the data in there were no material the previous general ledgers, including: errors in the financial statements as a result Reconciliation of FY2016 opening balance to the audited FY2015 closing balances: of the implementation Substantive testing of the data which was migrated into the new general ledger, of the Oracle finance including reconciliation of transactions listings from the new system with those system.
from the previous general ledgers: and Testing of manual adjustments related to migration of the data including those related to duplication of data and its manual reversal.
We inspected the chart of accounts and validated the mapping from the legacy ledgers, to Oracle, as well as from Oracle to the Group consolidation tool.
We performed audit procedures in all full scope components that implemented the Oracle system in 2016.
106 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Independent Auditors Report The scope of our audit The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed Tailoring the scope by our audit teams.
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Pre-tax profit 1% Group.
Taken together, these enable us to form an opinion on the Group financial 6% statements.
We take into account the size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment, and other factors, such as recent Internal Audit findings, when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to make sure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts Full scope components in the financial statements, we selected 20 components covering entities Specic scope components headquartered within the United Kingdom, United States of America, Italy and Other procedures 92% Sri Lanka, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 20 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of seven components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 13 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific Adjusted pre-tax profit 1% 10% accounts within each component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements, either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Scope Procedures performed by Number of components Full Primary team 3 Full Component teams 4 Full scope components Specic scope components Specific Primary team 12 Other procedures Specific Component teams 1 89% Total 20 Details of the five components which were audited by component teams are set out below: Revenue 1% 7% Component Location Scope Auditor LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited United Kingdom Full EY London Stock Exchange Group Italy Full EY Holdings Italy S. p. A. LSEG US Holdco Inc. Index United States of America Full EY LSEG US Holdco Inc. United States of America Full Non-EY Full scope components Investment Management Specic scope components Millennium Information Sri Lanka Specific EY Other procedures Technologies Private Limited 92% Some specific accounts within LSEG US Holdco Inc. Investment Management were audited by the EY primary team.
Total assets Components subject to a full scope audit account for 92% 2015: 94% of the 1% Groups revenue, 92% 2015: 93% of the Groups pre-tax profit, 89% 2015: 86% of the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit measure used to calculate materiality, and 99% 2015: 99% of the Groups total assets.
Components subject to specific scope audit account for 7% 2015: 5% of the Groups revenue, 6% 2015: 5% of the Groups pre-tax profit, 11% 2015: 13% of the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit measure used to calculate materiality, and 1% 2015: 1% of the Groups total assets.
The audit scope of these components Full scope components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the components but Specic scope components will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Other procedures 99% The remaining 32 components together represent less than 1% of the Groups revenue, pre-tax profit, adjusted pre-tax profit and total assets.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
107 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Changes from the prior year Materiality In the prior year, we identified six full scope components.
As a result of the The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the divestment of the Russell Investment Management business in the current year, aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of we separately scoped in LSEG US Holdco Inc. Index and LSEG US Holdco Inc. the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining Investment Management as full scope components.
All other full scope the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Specific scope components have been re-assessed as the contribution of these smaller parts of the business to the We determined overall materiality for the Group to be 23.3 million Group financial statements varies each year.
2015: 18.3 million, which is 5% 2015: 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit from continuing operations i. e. excluding Russell Investment Management Involvement with component teams calculated by including the impact of the amortisation of purchased In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type intangible assets, but excluding other non-recurring items as disclosed of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the in Note 7 of the financial statements.
primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors operating under our instruction.
We consider the basis of our materiality to be one of the important considerations for shareholders of the Company in assessing the financial For the four full scope and one specific scope components, where the work performance of the Group.
It is linked to the key earnings measures discussed was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level when the Group presents the financial results.
In addition to non-recurring of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had items, the Group also excludes amortisation of purchased intangibles to been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
present adjusted operating profit: this amount is not excluded from our The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has materiality calculation.
been designed to make sure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal locations of the Group.
Our overall materiality threshold provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Senior risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent Statutory Auditor and the primary audit team to the following locations: of further audit procedures.
Our evaluation of materiality requires professional judgement and necessarily takes into account qualitative as well as quantitative Component Location Scope Number considerations implicit in the definition.
Clearnet Group Limited London, United Kingdom Full 1 London Stock Exchange Milan, Italy Full 2 STARTING 364.1 million Group Holdings Italy S. p. A.
BASIS Profit before tax from continuing operations LSEG US Holdco Inc. Index New York, United States of Full 1 America LSEG US Holdco Inc. Seattle, United States of Full 1 Investment Management America ADJUSTMENTS 102.4 million Millennium Information Colombo, Sri Lanka Specific 1 Non-recurring items, mostly costs related to the Technologies Private Limited proposed merger with Deutsche Brse, the ongoing restucturing of LCH.
Clearnet and integration of Frank These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and Russell Company any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local management.
In addition, we participated in planning and closing meetings and reviewed selected audit working papers.
The primary audit team interacted regularly with MATERIALITY Total of 466.5 million the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together Materiality of 23.3 million 5% of materiality basis with the additional procedures performed at primary team level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the financial statements.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and made adjustments based on the final financial performance of the Group.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
108 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Independent Auditors Report Performance materiality Scope of the audit of the financial statements The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness materiality was 50% 2015: 50% of our overall materiality, namely 11.7 million of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 2015: 9.2 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage presentation of the financial statements.
which is the lowest in the range due to misstatements which were identified in In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the the prior year audit.
Our approach is designed to have a reasonable probability of Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial ensuring that the total of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect exceed our overall materiality of 23.3 million for the Group financial statements based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the as a whole.
course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component on pages 100 101, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial to the Group as a whole, and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in allocated to components was as follows: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Allocated performance Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Component materiality This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance London Stock Exchange Group plc 2.4m with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been London Stock Exchange plc 6.5m undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters LCH.
Clearnet Group Ltd 3.6m we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy S. p. A.
5.9m To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility LSEG US Holdco, Inc. Index 3.6m to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, LSEG US Holdco, Inc. Investment Management 6.5m for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
FTSE International Ltd 3.6m Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 All specific scope components 1.2m In our opinion: Reporting threshold the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and clearly trivial based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The Audit Committee requested that we report to them all uncorrected audit the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report differences in excess of 0.5 million 2015: 0.5 million, as well as differences below for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This is is consistent with the financial statements: and less than the threshold of 5% of overall materiality that we would typically use, the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative accordance with applicable legal requirements.
measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
109 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no exceptions in the annual report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report and accounts appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment We have no exceptions obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements to report.
in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 100, and longer-term viability, set out on page 99: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
110 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Governance Independent Auditors Report Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have nothing or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
David Canning-Jones Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 3 March 2017 Notes: 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the London Stock Exchange Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
