Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council, and accordingly chooses to apply the Financial Reporting Standard 101 FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework as issued by the Financial Reporting Council to these financial statements.
In doing so, the Company applies the requirements of IFRS 1.6-33 and related appendices.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash-flow statement and certain related party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the Group financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, except as noted below.
The Companys financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
For further details, refer to Note 1 to the Group financial statements.
Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the spot rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised directly in equity in the period in which the dividend is paid or approved by the Companys shareholders, if required.
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings are recognised as income in the period in which they are received.
Refer to Note 10 to the Group financial statements for details of dividends paid during the year.
Investments in subsidiaries $m 2016 2015 Shares in Group undertakings At 1 January and 31 December 2,439 2,439 The Companys shares in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance sheet of the Company at cost less accumulated impairment.
A complete list of the Companys direct and indirect subsidiaries are provided in Note 31 to the Group financial statements.
Debtors amounts falling due within one year 31 December 31 December $m 2016 2015 Current tax asset 4 6 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 157 192 161 198 4.
Creditors amounts falling due within one year 31 December 31 December $m 2016 2015 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 16 2 Other creditors 68 3 84 5 Other creditors includes $65 million relating to the share repurchase which was partially completed during the year see Note 21 to the Group financialstatements.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 137 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 5.
Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year Borrowings relate to the 2024 fixed rate reset callable guaranteed subordinated notes issued by the Company, as detailed in Note 13 to the Group financial statements.
Directors remuneration Details of the individual directors emoluments and interests are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 89.
The directors of the Company were paid by another Group company in the year.
Statutory and other information Shares in the Company are awarded to directors and employees through the Groups share schemes.
Details relating to these share grants are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 89.
138 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016
