Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dividend policy In this section we have provided Mans dividend policy is to pay out at least 100% of adjusted management fee earnings per share in each financial year by way of ordinary dividend.
In somekeyinformation to assist you addition, the Group expects to generate significant surplus capital over inmanaging your shareholding in Man.
time, primarily from net performance fee earnings.
Available surpluses, after taking into account our required capital including accruals for future Ifyouhave a question that is not answered earn-out payments, potential strategic opportunities and a prudent buffer, will be distributed to shareholders over time by way of higher dividend below, you can contact us by email: payments and or share repurchases.
As announced at the time of our shareholder@man.
com Trading Statement for the quarter ended 30 September 2016, the Company is undertaking a share repurchase programme pursuant to Useful websites which up to a maximum of $100 million of surplus capital is being returned References are made throughout this section to two websites which you to shareholders.
Details of the number of shares repurchased during 2016 will find useful for managing your shareholding in Man and for finding out can be found in Note 21 of the Group financial statements.
more about the Company: Dividend payment methods Man www.
com You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways.
Dividends The Man corporate website contains a wealth of information about will automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your registered theCompany including details of the industry in which we operate, our address unless you have chosen one of the options below: strategy and business performance, recent news from Man and corporate responsibility initiatives.
The Investor Relations section is a key tool for 1.
Direct payment to your bank: We recommend that you apply for shareholders with information on share price and financial results, reports cash dividends to be paid directly into your UK bank or building and presentations.
This section of the website also contains information on society account to speed up the payment process and to avoid the dividends and shareholder meetings as well as useful Frequently Asked risk of cheques becoming lost or delayed in the post.
dividend confirmation will be sent direct to your registered address.
Toswitch to this method of payment, simply download a dividend Equiniti Shareview www.
co. uk shareholders mandate form from the Dividends section of our corporate website.
Mans register of shareholders is maintained by Equiniti, the Companys Alternatively, dividend mandate forms are available from the Equiniti Registrars.
Many aspects of managing your shares such as checking your Shareview website.
If you have any queries please contact Equiniti current shareholding, managing dividend payments, and updating your on0371 384 21121 44 121 415 7592 if calling from outside the UK, contact details can be carried out by registering on the Equiniti Shareview who will be able to assist.
Please remember to have your Shareholder website.
To do this you will need your Shareholder Reference which can be Reference available when you contact Equiniti.
2 found on your share certificate or dividend confirmation.
Overseas payment service : If you live overseas, Equiniti offers anoverseas payment service which is available in certain countries.
Dividends This may make it possible to receive dividends directly into your bank Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 account in your local currency.
Further information can be found on the Equiniti Shareview website or via the Equiniti helpline 0371 384 21121 44 121 415 7592 if calling from outside the UK.
3. Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP : The Company is pleased to 3.62 pence per share offer a DRIP which gives shareholders the opportunity to build their The directors have recommended a final dividend of 3.62 pence per shareholding in the Company in a convenient and cost-effective way.
share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
Payment of this Instead of receiving your dividend in cash, you receive as many whole dividend is subject to approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting shares as can be bought with your dividend, taking into account AGM.
Key dates relating to this dividend are given below: related purchase costs: any residual cash is then carried forward and added to your next dividend.
If you wish to join the DRIP, you can download copies of the DRIP terms and conditions and the DRIP Ex-dividend date 20 April 2017 mandate form from the Dividends section of the Man website or from Record date 21 April 2017 the Equiniti Shareview website.
Simply complete the DRIP mandate form and return it to Equiniti.
Should you have any questions regarding DRIP election date 21 April 2017 the DRIP, or to request a paper mandate form, please contact Equiniti AGM to approve final dividend 5 May 2017 1 on 0371 384 2268.
Please note that if you wish to join the DRIP in time for the payment of the forthcoming final dividend for the year Payment date 12 May 2017 ended 31 December 2016, Equiniti must have received your CREST accounts credited with DRIP shares 17 May 2017 instruction by 5.00pm on 21 April 2017.
Instructions received after this DRIP share certificates received 18 May 2017 date will be applied to the next dividend payment.
Notes: 1 Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, each business day.
2 Please note that a payment charge will be deducted from each individual payment before conversion to your local currency.
Details of fees can be found on the Equiniti Shareview website.
140 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements DRIP DRIP Dividend Amount per Ex-dividend share purchase Dividends paid in the 2016 17 tax year number Payment date share p date Record date price p date Interim dividend for the year ended 31 Dec 2016 O 19 31 08 2016 3.43 11 08 16 12 08 16 109.5945 31 08 16 Final dividend for the year ended 31 Dec 2015 O 18 13 05 2016 3.40 21 04 16 22 04 16 130.3635 18 05 16 Dividend history Dont fall victim to share fraud!
To help shareholders with their tax affairs, details of Sterling dividends Even seasoned investors have been caught out by sophisticated share paid in the 2016 17 tax year can be found above.
Please note that the orinvestment scams where smooth-talking fraudsters cold call from boiler dividend amounts are declared in US Dollars but paid in Sterling.
For rooms to offer them worthless, overpriced or even non-existent shares, or details of historical payments, please refer to the Dividends section of the tobuy shares they currently hold at a price higher than the market value.
website which can be found under Investor Relations.
Allshareholders are advised to be extremely wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Changes to tax on dividend income Company.
It is estimated that 200 million is lost in this way in the UK each Since 6 April 2016, the dividend tax credit has been replaced with a year, with an average loss of 20,000 per investor.
tax-free dividend allowance of 5,000 per annum.
As such, the tax voucher that previously accompanied your dividend has been replaced The Financial Conduct Authority FCA provides helpful information about with a dividend confirmation.
For further information, and to see how you such scams on its website, including practical tips on how to protect your might be affected by the changes, please refer to the HMRC website.
savings and how to report a suspected investment scam.
Man encourages its shareholders to read the information on the site which can be accessed Shareholder communications at www.
You can also call the FCA Annual and Interim Reports Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Man publishes an Annual and Interim Report every year.
The Annual Report is sent to shareholders in March through the post unless the How your details are protected from cybercrime shareholder has chosen to receive shareholder communications Man takes the protection of its shareholders personal data from the electronically see E-communications below.
The Interim Report is ever-increasing threat of cybercrime very seriously.
Shareholder details published on the website in early August and printed copies are available are maintained by Equiniti, our Registrars, who safeguard this information on request from the Company Secretary.
Equinitis security measures include multiple levels of firewall, no wireless access to the corporate network, and E-communications regular external vulnerability scans and system penetration tests.
You can help Man to reduce its printing and postage costs as well as its carbon footprint by signing up to receive communications electronically Company contact details rather than receiving printed documents such as Annual Reports and Registered office Notices of AGMs in the post.
To sign up for e-communications, simply Man Group plc register on the Equiniti Shareview website.
You will need your Shareholder Riverbank House Reference, which can be found on your share certificate, dividend 2 Swan Lane confirmation or proxy card, in order to register.
Once registered, you will London need to change your mailing preference to e-communications and provide EC4R 3AD your email address.
You will then receive an email each time a shareholder communication or document becomes available on the Man website.
com Managing your shareholding Online, by post, or by phone Registered in England and Wales with registered number: 08172396 Many aspects of your shareholding can be managed by registering on the Equiniti Shareview website.
For enquiries about your shareholding Investor Relations you can also contact Equiniti in writing at Equiniti, Aspect House, investor@man.
com Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, or by telephone on Head of Investor Relations Andrea Waters 1 0371 384 2112, quoting Reference No 874.
Callers from outside the UK should telephone 44 121 415 7592.
Please quote your Shareholder Company Secretariat Reference when contacting Equiniti.
com Company Secretary Rachel Rowson Share dealing service Equiniti provides a share dealing facility through which you can buy or Company advisers sellMan Group plc shares in the UK.
The service is provided by Equiniti Independent auditor Financial Services Limited and can be accessed via the dealing section Deloitte LLP of the Equiniti Shareview website www.
To use Equinitis telephone dealing service, please call 03456 037 037 between Corporate brokers 8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
You can also buy and sell shares Bank of America Merrill Lynch through any authorised stockbroker or bank that offers a share dealing Credit Suisse service in the UK, or in your country of residence if outside the UK.
Goldman Sachs Corporate communications Finsbury Registrars Equiniti Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 141
