Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Alternative performance measures Adjusted net management fee profit before tax and adjusted We assess the performance of the group net management fee EPS Adjusted profit before tax is split between adjusted net management using a variety of alternative performance fee profit before tax and adjusted net performance fee profit before measures.
We discuss the Groups results tax to separate out the variable performance fee related earnings of the business from the underlying management fee earnings of the on an adjusted basis as well as a business.
Adjusted net management fee profit before tax is calculated as adjusted profit before tax excluding net performance fee profit statutory basis.
The rationale for using before tax.
The detailed calculation of adjusted net management fee adjusted measures is explained below.
profit before tax is shown on page 34.
Mans dividend policy is disclosed on page 35.
Dividends paid to We also explain financial performance using measures that are not shareholder or adjusted net management fee EPS are determined defined under IFRS and are therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
based on the adjusted net management fee profit before tax.
These non-GAAP measures areexplained below.
The alternative performance measures we use may not be directly comparable with Adjusted net management fee EPS is calculated using post-tax profits similarly titled measures by other companies.
excluding net performance fees and adjusting items, divided by the weighted average diluted number of shares.
Funds under management FUM non-GAAP measure FUM is the assets that the Group manages for investors in fund entities.
The reconciliation of diluted statutory EPS to adjusted net FUM is a key indicator of our performance as an investment manager management fee EPS is included on page 111. and our ability to remain competitive and build a sustainable business.
FUM is measured based on management fee earning capacity.
Average Adjusted net performance fee profit before tax FUM multiplied by our net management fee margin see below equates The detailed calculation of adjusted net performance fee profit before to our management fee earning capacity.
Funds under management are tax is shown on page 34. shown by product groupings that have similar margin and investor characteristics as shown on page 31.
Management focus on the Adjusted EBITDA movements in FUM split between the following categories: As the Group has a number of non-cash items in the income statement, Net inflows outflows non-GAAP measure it is important to focus on cash earnings to measure the true earnings Net inflows outflows are a measure of our ability to attract and retain generation of the Group.
Adjusted EBITDA represents our profitability investor capital.
Net flows are calculated as sales less redemptions.
The table on page 34 gives a reconciliation of Further details are included on page 17. adjusted profit before tax to adjusted EBITDA.
The main differences are Investment movement non-GAAP measure net finance expense, depreciation and amortisation, and deferred Investment movement is a measure of our ability to manage the compensation charges relating to deferred awards.
performance of our funds for our investors.
It is calculated as the fund performance of each strategy multiplied by the FUM in that strategy.
Adjusted management fee EBITDA margin Further details are included on page 16.
The adjusted management fee EBITDA margin is a measure of the FX and other movements non-GAAP measure underlying profitability of the Group.
It is calculated as a percentage of Some of the Groups FUM is denominated in currencies other than net management fee revenues gross management fee revenue and USD.
FX movements represent the impact of translating non-USD income from associates less cash distribution costs.
Further details denominated FUM into USD.
Other movements principally relate to on this measure are included on page 17. maturities and leverage movements.
Compensation ratio Net management fee margins non-GAAP measure The compensation ratio measures our compensation costs relative to our Margins are an indication of the revenue margins negotiated with our revenues.
The Groups compensation ratio is generally between 40% to institutional and retail investors net of any distribution costs paid to 50% of net revenues, depending on the mix and level of revenue.
The net management fee margin is calculated as net calculated as total compensation divided by net revenues gross management fee revenue gross management fee revenue and income management fee revenue and income from associates less cash from associates less distribution costs divided by average FUM.
Details of the current year compensation ratio are ofthe current year net management fee margins are included on page 32. included on page 33.
Adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share Adjusted profit before tax reflects the recurring revenues and costs that drive the Groups underlying profitability.
The directors consider that in order to assess underlying operating performance, the Groups profit period on period is most meaningful when considered on a basis which excludes acquisition and disposal related items, impairment of assets, restructuring costs and certain non-recurring gains or losses.
This therefore reflects the recurring revenues and costs that drive the Groupscash flows and inform the base on which the Groups variablecompensation is assessed.
The reconciliation of statutory profit before tax to adjusted profit before tax is shown on page 106.
The reconciliation of diluted statutory EPS to the adjusted EPS measures is included on page 111.
142 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 143 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes 144 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements man.
com Man Group plc Riverbank House 2 Swan Lane London, EC4R 3AD
