Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 October 2016 1 Accounting policies continued Lease premiums received are recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Obligations arising from sale and leaseback arrangements with repurchase options that do not fall within the scope of Section 20 Leases of FRS 102 are classified as other lease related borrowings and accounted for as secured loans on an amortised cost basis.
Investments in subsidiaries Interests in subsidiaries are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
The investments are assessed for impairment at each reporting date and any impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount expected to be required to settle the obligation is recognised at present value, using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
When a provision is measured at present value the unwinding of the discount is recognised as a finance cost in profit or loss in the period it arises.
When valuations of leasehold properties based on future estimated income streams give rise to a deficit as a result of onerous lease conditions they are recognised as provisions.
Other contractual property costs are also recorded as provisions as appropriate.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board but unpaid at the period end are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Preference shares Preference shares are treated as borrowings, and dividends payable on those preference shares are charged as interest in the profit and loss account.
Group undertakings There is an intra group funding agreement in place between the Company and certain other members of the Group.
This agreement stipulates that all balances outstanding on any intercompany loan account between these companies which exceed 1 are interest bearing at a prescribed rate.
There is a 12.5% subordinated loan due to the Company from Marstons Pubs Limited and a deep discount bond owed by the Company to Bankss Brewery Insurance Limited.
No interest is payable on any other amounts owed by to Group companies who are not party to the intra group funding agreement.
All amounts owed by to Group undertakings are unsecured and, with the exception of the subordinated loan and deep discount bond, repayable on demand.
2 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Companys accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods where the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements The following judgements apart from those involving estimates have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Lease classification In determining whether a lease is classified as an operating lease or finance lease, judgements are required in respect of whether the lease has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset to the lessee, in particular whether the present value of the minimum lease payments amounts to at least substantially all of the fair value of the asset and whether the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the asset.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are as follows.
Tangible fixed assets The Company carries its freehold and leasehold properties at fair value.
These properties are valued by external or internal valuers on an open market value basis, primarily using earnings multiples derived from prices in observed transactions involving comparable businesses.
The estimation of the fair values requires a combination of assumptions, including future earnings and appropriate multiples.
