Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
Leadership Governance framework The Board Principal Committees PLC Exec Audit Nomination Remuneration Supporting Matters Reserved Roles and Committees for the Board Responsibilities Risk & Compliance Committee terms of reference Management Business Continuity Committees Data Security Assurance MIT and MBC Divisional Making Corporate Implementation Internal controls Boards Disclosure Marstons Responsibility of Strategy Auditing Leadership Group Monitoring The Place Legal and regulatory performance to Be compliance Enterprise-wide risk management Ways of Working The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term The PLC Exec and other Management Committees oversee the success of the Group.
Our governance framework allows the Group implementation of strategy and monitor performance.
The Supporting to operate within a defined set of prudent and effective controls which Committees provide assurance to the Board through the operation of set out roles and responsibilities, accountabilities, the assessment and internal controls, auditing and ensuring the Group remains compliant management of risk and enable the delivery of our strategic objectives.
with legal and other regulatory obligations.
The framework is supported The principal decision-making body within the Group is the Board and by the risk management process see page 20 and our Ways of Working the schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually see page 10. and includes matters relating to: strategy, major capital expenditure, Board composition acquisitions and disposals, capital structure and financial results, internal Our Board currently comprises nine Directors.
In addition to the controls, governance and risk management, Committee membership Chairman, Roger Devlin, there are five Non-executive Directors and and terms of reference.
The schedule, last reviewed in September 2016, three Executive Directors.
Neil Goulden will retire from the Board at the is available on our website.
Certain roles and responsibilities have been conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
He will be succeeded as Senior Independent delegated by the Board to its principal Committees.
Each Committee Director by Carolyn Bradley.
Catherine Glickman will become Chairman Chairman reports to the Board on decisions and actions taken.
The terms of the Remuneration Committee.
When considering the appointment of of reference for each Committee are reviewed annually to ensure they a new Non-executive Director, the Nomination Committee considers the remain fit for purpose and comply with the provisions of the Code.
additional skills and experience that will enhance the effectiveness of the Board.
We consider all of our Non-executive Directors to be independent and the charts below portray the balance and tenure oftheBoard as at the date of this report.
Balance between Executive and Male female representation on Board Tenure of Chairman and Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors 1 2 3 2 2 5 7 2 Chairman Male 03 years Non-executive Female 36 years Executive 6 years 36 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Roles and responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The key responsibilities for each Board member are set out below.
More information about our Board members and the relevant experience they each bring to the business is set out on the following pages.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Roger Devlin is responsible for: Ralph Findlay is responsible for: The operation, leadership and governance of the Board.
The performance of the Group in line with the strategies and objectives established by the Board and under powers delegated Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board.
Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions with a Ensuring the Board is supplied with information relevant to its particular focus on strategic matters.
Ensuring each Non-executive Director makes an effective Leading the Executive Directors and senior management in contribution to the Board through debate and discussion with dealingwith the operational requirements of the business.
Providing clear and visible leadership in business conduct.
Ensuring through the Group Secretary that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The effective and ongoing communication with shareholders.
Senior Independent Director Chief Financial and Corporate Development Officer Neil Goulden is responsible for: Andrew Andrea is responsible for: Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary Working with the CEO to develop and implement the Groups for the other Directors.
Leading the Non-executive Directors in their annual assessment The financial delivery and performance of the Group.
Ensuring that the Group remains appropriately funded to pursue Making himself available to shareholders, particularly if they have the strategic objectives.
concerns that the normal channels have failed to resolve, or for Investor relations activities, and communications with investors, which such contact would be inappropriate.
Other Non-executive Directors Group Secretary Carolyn Bradley, Nick Backhouse, Catherine Glickman and Robin Anne-Marie Brennan is responsible for: Rowland are responsible for: Ensuring effective information channels within the Board and Constructive challenge on proposals on strategy.
its Committee, and between senior management and Nonexecutive Directors.
Contributions to the development of longer-term strategy.
Advising on regulatory compliance and corporate governance.
Meeting with the Chairman, at least annually, without the Executive Directors being present.
Facilitating individual induction programmes for Directors and assisting with their development as required.
Scrutiny of management performance in the delivery of strategic objectives and monitoring operational and financial performance.
Communications with retail shareholders and organisation of the AGM.
Chairman of Risk & Compliance Committee and DataSecurity Committee.
37 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Senior Independent Director Roger Devlin Ralph Findlay Andrew Andrea Peter Dalzell Neil Goulden Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial and Managing Director Senior Independent Director CEO Corporate Development Marstons Inns and Taverns Officer CFO Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees A N R Board Committees N N Independent Independent Independent Independent Yes Independent No Yes upon appointment No No Length of service Length of service Length of service Length of service 8 years 6 months Length of service 4 years 3 years 1 month 20 years 7 years 6 months Joined the Company in 1995 Other appointments Appointed to the Board as Joined the Company in 2002 and appointed to the Board Other appointments Chairman of Jackpotjoy Plc Finance Director in 1996 and appointed to the Board in 2012 Chairman of SIS and becoming CEO in 2001 Chairman of Affinity Sutton in 2009 Porthaven Nursing Homes Chairman of MIT Housing Group Qualified Chartered Qualified Chartered CharitableTrust Independent NonAccountant and Treasurer Chair of the Board of Accountant executive Director of the Governors at Nottingham Football Association Other appointments Other appointments Trent University Relevant past experience Member of the BBPA Chair of Council and Relevant past experience Roles held at Guinness FuturePub Groups Pro Chancellor at Relevant past experience Previously Non-executive Brewing Worldwide, Keele University Member of The Low Director of National Express BassBrewers Limited and Relevant past experience Pay Commission Non-executive Director and and RPS Group Dolland & Aitchison Operations Director for Chair of Audit Committee at Chairman of The Marstons Inns and Taverns Previously Chairman Bovis Homes Group PLC Responsible Gambling Trust of Principal Hayley Roles at Gala Coral Group, Group and Corporate Relevant past experience Compass Group Plc and Development Director at Roles held at Geest Plc and Chef & Brewer Hilton International Bass Plc Skills directly relevant to our business model Beer Pubs Rooms 55% of our Board have experience 66% of our Board have pubs 44% of our Board have experience in beer businesses and bar experience in hotels and lodges 44% 66% 55% 38 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Other Non-executive Directors Group Secretary Nick Backhouse Carolyn Bradley Catherine Glickman Robin Rowland Anne-Marie Brennan Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Group Secretary Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Length of service 12 years A N N N R A N R Qualified Chartered Secretary and Independent Independent Independent Independent Chartered Accountant Yes Yes Yes Yes Length of service Length of service Length of service Length of service 4 years 8 months 2 years 1 year 10 months 6 years 1 month Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Group HR Director Chief Executive of of Hollywood Bowl Group at Legal and General ofGenus Plc YO!Sushi Limited plc and Guardian Media Group Plc Member of the Institute of Non-executive Director at Group plc Non-executive Director of Personnel and Development Caff Nero Group Limited Fellow of the Institute of The Mentoring Foundation and Eathos Limited Chartered Accountants Relevant past experience Trustee of Cancer ALMR Board Director Group HR Director at Tesco Trustee of Chichester Research UK Festival Theatre Relevant past experience Relevant past experience Retail Director roles held at Relevant past experience UK Marketing Director and Restaurant Group Plc and Senior management other roles at Tesco Scottish &Newcastle Plc positions in the pub, leisure Trustee of the and financial sectors DrinkAware Trust Key Other relevant experience of our Board A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee R Denotes Committee Chairman 39 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Standing items and regular reports cover the Groups financial position, Board agenda and activities during the year risk management, regulatory compliance and consumer insight.
The Boards agenda is a combination of regular business matters and a Updates on activities across each operating division and performance forward agenda of other specific matters for consideration.
The agenda against targets are reported to the Board in a monthly summary of key for each meeting is prepared by the Group Secretary and agreed with business operations.
Board papers are circulated in advance of each the Chairman and CEO.
This ensures sufficient time is devoted to key meeting to ensure that Directors have sufficient time to review them business matters at the appropriate time and the agenda remains before the meeting.
Items considered during the period include: flexible to accommodate the addition of any specific items for discussion as required.
Strategy Customer Focus and Leadership and People Governance Shareholder Focus Business Operations Development Annual strategy day Digital strategy Board and other key Report on external Board Review of results announcements personnelsuccession evaluation Annual plan Major food and raw materials People strategy Ways of Matters Reserved for the Board Dividend proposals supplier proposals Working and delegated authorities Property capex and Capital investment in brewing Talent and succession planning Terms of reference and Going concern and viability development investment membership for all principal statement review parameters Committees Beer company strategy Retail systems investment Employee engagement survey Fair, balanced and AGM preparation 2016 results understandable review of AnnualReport and Accounts Financing proposals Health and safety review Implementation of National Group risks and risk Shareholder feedback and LivingWage management perceptions Premium Pubs and Bars Corporate responsibility Assessment of key business and financial controls Annual insurance renewal Regulatory and statutory compliance Pubs Code impact and Pension scheme accounts implementation Board and Committee meeting attendance 2016 Strategy Day On the agenda The Board met nine times during the year, allowing sufficient opportunities to effectively challenge and monitor the Groups progress against its The Board holds an annual strategy day offsite, in addition to regular strategic objectives and within the governance framework.
This enables the Board to focus on an As set out in the governance framework, we operate three principal in-depth review of strategy, progress and implementation.
In 2016, Committees of the Board to deal with specific issues under the Code, each senior managers attended the Strategy Day to present proposals on with its own terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and updated.
their areas of responsibility, helping to inform the debate around the Reports from each Committee can be found on pages 44 to 62.
The table continued development of strategy.
The Leadership Group also joined below shows each Directors attendance throughout the year: the Board for dinner on the evening before, enabling Non-executive Directors to engage, challenge, discuss and debate with those in attendance.
The key themes of the Strategy Day comprised: Name Board Nomination Audit Remuneration General market trends, regulatory challenges, performance Andrew Andrea 9 9 and priorities Nick Backhouse 8 9 3 4 3 3 Five year financial plan: stretch targets and strategic possibilities Carolyn Bradley 9 9 4 4 Development of the Destination pubs offer Peter Dalzell 9 9 Rooms: intent, offer and operation Roger Devlin 9 9 4 4 People strategy progress update Ralph Findlay 9 9 4 4 Catherine Glickman 7 9 3 4 3 4 Neil Goulden 8 9 3 4 2 3 4 4 Robin Rowland 9 9 4 4 3 3 4 4 40
