Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 5.
Shareholder relations All shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the Our aim is for Marstons to be The Place to Be for shareholders, Board of Directors at the Companys AGM.
Prior to the formal business of and engagement with our shareholders is essential to ensure a the AGM, the CEO presents an update on recent trading performance and greater understanding of, and confidence in, the development and implementation of the medium and longer-term strategy of the Group.
Shareholders are able to ask questions during the meeting, followed by an opportunity to meet with the Directors The investor relations programme involves institutional shareholders, of the business on an informal basis.
The senior management team fund managers and analysts and is managed by the Executive Directors.
also attend the AGM and meet with shareholders before and after the The CEO and CFO meet with private client fund managers on a quarterly meeting.
All of our Directors attend and the Chairman of the Board and basis, to discuss strategy, performance, management and governance, each Committee are available to answer shareholder questions during within the constraints of information which is already publicly available.
the formal business of the meeting.
The voting on all resolutions at the During the year, a number of analysts were also invited to the Marstons AGM is conducted by way of a poll.
This is to allow all shareholders, Brewery in Burton, to learn more about the brewing side of the Group.
present in person, by proxy or unable to attend, to vote on all resolutions Written feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders is received in proportion to their shareholding.
The Company will release the results following meetings with Executive Directors and this is reviewed by of voting, including proxy votes on each resolution, on its website on the the Board.
This ensures that shareholders views and any issues of next business day at www.
co. uk investors and announce concern are heard by the Board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent them through a Regulatory News Service.
Details of the 2017 AGM are Director are also available for meetings with the Companys major set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Group Secretary oversees communication with private individual shareholders on behalf of the Board.
The investor section of the Companys website is available to all shareholders and provides share price information, results presentations and announcements, financial calendars and general information on the business.
The Annual Report and Accounts is a key communication tool providing a comprehensive review of the business, details of our governance arrangements and annual results.
Analysis of shareholder register by investor type Our private investors may hold shares directly or through nominee Private client fund managers companies private client fund managers, therefore the percentage of Private investors 22.2% private shareholders is approximately 34%.
Institutional investors Further analysis of the share register can be found in Information for 12.2% Shareholders on page 121.
65.6% Shareholder engagement: City Analyst Day, Marstons Brewery, Burton Attended by analysts and advisers Markets, brand development and innovation Hosted by Ralph Findlay, Andrew Andrea and Richard Westwood, Expertise, operating channels and growth opportunities Managing Director of Marstons Beer Company MBC Aim of the day to increase awareness of MBC and the value of the business Shareholder engagement summary: key communication channels Institutional shareholders and analysts Private client fund managers Private shareholders Rolling investor relations programme Quarterly meetings with CEO and CFO Annual General Meeting with full Board and senior management present Bi-annual written feedback received Annual Report and Accounts and website Chairman and Senior Independent Director available to meet with largest shareholders Group Secretary oversees communication on behalf of the Board 43
