15 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 OUR PERFORMANCE OPERATING PERFORMANCE OUR PRODUCTS FOOD last year.
We had a strong festive period, street clothing market had a diffi cult year, with sales up 17% in the Christmas week with heavy promotional cycles and unusual Special.
These are the compared to the same week last year.
But our performance attributes that set our Food business apart, Our scores on quality over this period were highlighted a number of challenges with and were the reasons behind another among the highest ever and we received our core clothing off er and these were strong performance this year.
Sales rose more awards than any other retailer in compounded by failures in execution.
by 3.6%, to 5.4bn, and we once again grew Tried & Tested-style product press reviews.
Our aim of making To address this, we have set up a number of every food moment special was achieved Health is a primary concern for our cross-business unit workstreams to review through the newness and quality of our customers, and a big growth area for us.
everything we do, from our products to our products.
In a challenging and fide ationary The approach to healthy eating has moved prices to our processes.
These projects are market, our market share rose to 4.3%.
beyond short-term dieting and consumers ongoing, but we have already implemented are now looking for ways to follow everyday some changes.
In order to further Our strategic focus this year was healthier lifestyles.
So our product improve our styling, we decided that it on off ering real choice and greater development team has been working on was important to have one clear vision of convenience for our customers.
We enabling our customers to make healthier our female customers.
So we consolidated concentrated on ensuring that each store choices.
All of our bread now has added the Womenswear, Lingerie and Beauty sold a range that was appropriate to its bre and vitamin D, and we removed businesses under one Director and location and size.
The proportion of our confectionary from till points, replacing appointed a Design Director for these customers who bought food for today was it with our new Healthy Snacking range, divisions, with the aim of off ering our 42%, almost four times higher than at our in which all items are Eat Well in regards female customers greater consistency.
larger rivals, so we rolled out new formats to fat, calories and salt.
The new ranges will arrive in store later with a strategic focus on convenience, this summer, and we are con dent that including a new layout for some of our R Maintaining our point of diff erence in our customers will notice the diff erence.
smaller Simply Food stores, which focuses a competitive market is central to the more on our Food On The Move off er.
In ongoing success of our Food business.
Our sourcing continues to improve, and total, we opened 75 Simply Food stores in Mitigating the impact of a changing over 65% of all our products are now the UK and seven overseas.
competitor landscape runs through every created, designed and sourced in-house, element of our Food strategy, from our with a target of 70%.
This has led to greater Prioritising availability is key to ensuring our focus on product innovation and newness collaboration between our design, buying customers are able to buy what they want, to a store expansion plan shaped around and regional sourcing teams: a key factor when they want.
Getting the balance right off ering even more convenience for in the gross margin improvement.
At the is a complex equation and this resulted in our customers.
same time, our customers told us our value slightly higher levels of waste during the perceptions were slipping so we have been wet weather in the summer and in the A In October, we announced a nationwide sharpening prices across our core ranges run up to Christmas, when we stocked unsold food redistribution scheme to to ensure we remain competitive with the our stores in line with the trend of our connect stores with local charities.
The market for example, we lowered prices on customers shopping increasingly closer to scheme, now live in all our owned stores, over 300 products in our Spring Summer Christmas itself.
This put some pressure on will help us achieve our Plan A target of 2016 range.
We are also working to improve margins but this was off set by our ongoing reducing like-for-like food waste by 20% our availability and ensure we are buying work to drive operational effi ciencies.
Separately, 48% of our product in the right mix of breadth and depth volume now comes from factories that We introduced 1,700 new products, our average launch availability for Spring meet our Silver or Gold sustainability equivalent to 25% of our entire range.
Summer 2016 was 84% compared to 61% benchmarking standard, while 73% of Our unrivalled innovation means that for Spring Summer 2015. our food items have a Plan A quality, for only 10% of our products are directly example they are Fairtrade, organic or help We did enjoy a number of successes this comparable to our competitors.
This sets our customers choose a healthier lifestyle.
For example we achieved a record us apart from the supermarkets.
Customers market share of 33% in bras and 26.8% in looking for the convenience of incredible OUR PRODUCTS CLOTHING & HOME lingerie.
We announced the launch of M&S prepared food loved our new products, &: a series of unique collaborations with Our priorities in Clothing & Home were to whether we were introducing new cuisines some of todays most exciting designers, or reformulating old favourites.
Under our improve our gross margin and grow our brands and fashion icons.
The first Taste umbrella, we launched new ranges sales.
Whilst we achieved the former, with collaboration Archive by Alexa Chung which included Greek, Lebanese and a 245bps increase, driven by improved saw 34,000 customers register their sourcing capabilities, we did not deliver on Spanish prepared meals.
And, despite the dips in market Indian range and redeveloped our pizzas.
Sales fell by 2.2%, which impacted share, we remained the overall market Sales of our top-tier pizzas now prepared our market share in key categories.
This leader in clothing and footwear.
in woodred stone ovens rose 28% on performance was unsatisfactory.
The high FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 16 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING PERFORMANCE CONTINUED R A underperformed.
As a result, overall low-risk way.
Whilst still a relatively small We take a rigorous approach to performance was behind our expectations part of our business, our international maintaining strict ethical standards in our and this resulted in an impairment charge of online business performed well.
The standards we expect from 102.4m, which signi cantly impacted launched owned websites in seven our suppliers are clearly fide ned and our statutory pro t. countries, including Australia, and our regional teams in all the areas we source franchise partners also launched hybrid from regularly visit our suppliers factories Whilst our Food sales grew by 23.4%, bricks and clicks strategies.
We experienced to ensure our standards are upheld.
Since our international performance in Clothing solid growth with the T-Mall marketplace in 2010 we have trained over 762,000 supply & Home was not satisfactory.
Our exposure China and expanded on the leading chain workers in subjects such as financial to emerging markets and weaker consumer marketplaces in India, Myntra and Flipkart, literacy, worker rights and healthcare.
We demand will remain into 2016 17.
Some bene ting from their scale, infrastructure understand that when people are treated of the internal issues that aff ected our and local expertise.
with respect, work in decent conditions Clothing & Home business in the UK were and earn fair rates of pay, they, their families R also felt in our International operations.
Testing global economic conditions and their companies bene t. Ultimately, We are working hard to improve our pose a potential risk to our business.
our customers bene t too, as they can international supply chain as we suff ered We bene t from the local knowledge have the peace of mind knowing that we from availability issues in some territories.
provided by franchise and joint venture are sourcing our products in the right way.
partnerships and ensure we have a Despite these challenges, we remain suffi ciently broad geographical spread.
committed to the long-term opportunities INTERNATIONAL We are looking at every part of our that exist internationally and we continue Our International business had a International operations to make sure to develop the shopping experience.
We now operate in 58 our strategy is t for the future.
introduced a boutique in-store format markets, with 468 international stores and at our new Brussels agship and rolled this an online presence in 21 markets.
Like-forSERVING OUR CUSTOMERS out successfully to a handful of stores in like sales in our owned businesses rose by We constantly monitor and analyse how Asia, including our first store in Beijing.
However, the combination of Euro our customers shop to ensure we adapt Our Indian business continued to perform devaluation, challenging macro-economic to their changing behaviour.
We want to strongly and delivered double digit like-forenvironments and operational infrastructure give customers as simple and enjoyable like growth.
We opened eight new stores in challenges impacted pro ts, which fell a shopping experience as possible, India and it now has the largest number of 39.6%.
Chinese economic growth slowed, whichever way they choose to shop with M&S stores outside the UK.
which aff ected the number of Chinese us.
Some 7.4 million customers shopped tourists visiting Hong Kong: geopolitical We continued to expand our standalone through M&S.
com this year, our highest ever unrest hit our franchise stores in Russia, Food presence internationally, targeting number.
The website saw record levels Turkey and Ukraine: and falling oil prices Hong Kong and Western Europe: with seven of customer satisfaction.
Sales increased impacted franchise stores in the Middle East.
openings, more customers now have by 23.4%, ahead of the market, and we grew Our European performance was hit by the access to our high-quality, diff erentiated our online market share.
adverse exchange rate as we absorbed the food off er.
Two years after its launch, M&S.
com is additional costs rather than pass them on As consumers the world over are easier to navigate and richer in content.
to customers in higher prices.
We closed increasingly choosing to shop online, we Customers like our strong editorial voice our 12 stores in the Balkans, and a number are embracing this channel shift and taking and nd the site both aspirational and of stores in Western Europe and China M&S into new markets in a capital-light, A A We launched a new campaign to raise Our creative digital division, M&S Venture Lab, We teamed up with Style for Soldiers as the 13m over the next five years in support of uses lean start-up techniques to experiment with charitys offi cial tailoring partner, providing suits Breast Cancer Now.
It featured seven women ways to improve the shopping experience for our and shoes for injured servicemen trying to get whose lives have been aff ected by the disease.
com, an back into work and embarking on new careers.
In collaboration with Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, online personal stylist service, and the Cook with David Gandy, designer of our successful David we launched a post-surgery bra: the first in the M&S recipe app, which includes clever features like Gandy for Autograph swimwear and loungewear Rosie for Autograph range.
timers and a step-by-step cooking mode.
range, is also an ambassador to the charity.
17 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 inspirational we saw a 33% increase in website is overseen by a dedicated security ranges.
Both campaigns continued to have visits to our Style & Living editorial section team who ensure we have the controls in a strong social element.
We now reach over as we doubled the number of editorial place to protect our customers.
5 million consumers through our various features, providing fashion, beauty, home social media platforms, up from 2.6 million In our stores, we have focused on providing and food inspiration for our customers.
The weekly readership for Style & inspirational shopping environments.
This bene ts sales the average order Living has reached 200,000.
Our expanding We have a total of 914 UK stores: 302 value from customers who read Style & reach enables us to build positive sentiment full line, 222 owned Simply Food, 349 Living is higher.
Our teams behind the and create an ongoing buzz around the M&S franchise Simply Food, and 41 Outlet stores.
scenes from online trading to digital brand and our most popular products.
Over the year, we opened seven new full marketing are constantly looking at how line stores.
We also continue to manage Our Sparks members club is one of the most we can make the site better and easier to our estate to ensure that we are bestimportant customer engagement initiatives shop.
We have increased the sites speed positioned in a local market and in weve launched in years.
Since its launch in and improved navigation resulting in the places that are convenient for our October, Sparks has attracted 4 million improved customer satisfaction scores.
As a result, we closed 20 stores, members, ranging in age from 16 to 103.
M&S is a connected retailer: people shop which included relocating four stores to Through tailored off ers and personalised with us through a variety of channels, from better sites and consolidating our two content, we can reward our loyal customers.
tablets to phones to desktop computers to separate Peterborough stores into one.
In the months prior to launch, we road tested our stores.
Often, their journey will start in and re ned Sparks with the help of over Service remains key.
Last year, we one channel and end in another.
We continue to look at introduced an employee bonus linked our fastest growing channel sales through how we can enhance the proposition by to service, and we are pleased that our mobile phones grew by 85% this year and further improving the personalisation and till-based customer satisfaction survey we update our mobile site daily to ensure tailoring it even more to our individual scores were the highest ever.
Our we are constantly improving the customer customers.
Sparks has a compelling employees have continued to focus on journey.
Despite this growth, 60% of all business rationale too.
It helps us to PACK Presentation, Availability, Crossonline sales are still picked up in store increase members frequency of purchase, selling and service and Knowledge to through our Shop Your Way service.
This encourages shopping between channels ensure that our stores and our service tells us that our customers love the and incentivises cross-buying.
Visits to the are the best they can be.
M&S website have increased from an average of 6.5 million per week when it launched to R As our online business grows, the ENGAGING OUR CUSTOMERS 11.5 million per week now.
com is essential Our marketing activity continued to inspire A to our success.
Our software engineers Sparks ties in with Plan A too: members our customers across our Food and can update our site daily, and our command earn 50 Sparks points each time they Clothing & Home products by bringing centres in the UK and Chennai run 24 7 Shwop unwanted clothing items and we them together under the Only M&S to ensure M&S.
com always meets our donate 1p to a charity of their choice every master brand.
Inspired by the success of our customers expectations.
We treat the time they shop with M&S.
Since it launched, Adventures In campaign, which was praised security of our customers and their we have donated 649,000 to our charity by our customers for the way it celebrated personal information very seriously.
partners, including UNICEF and Macmillan our quality, creativity and expertise in Food, We constantly monitor the ongoing Cancer Support.
we launched The Art of to celebrate the developments in cyber security and our craftsmanship in our Clothing & Home We launched an organic whole drinking coconut We improved our Shop Your Way service to We continued to improve our store environments complete with a unique patented ring-pull.
make it even more convenient for our customers.
with the roll-out of our Kids and Baby concepts to Made from recycled coconut husk bre and natural We increased the number of stores where customers an extra 16 stores.
We also launched a new Lingerie resin, the ring-pull is applied directly to the fruit, can collect orders to include our stores in transport scheme with a more modern intimate look, which resulting in the only coconut water on the market hubs, speeded up how long it takes to collect a we have put in 17 stores, including Marble Arch and that you can drink straight from the coconut.
parcel, and extended ordering times so customers the Pantheon.
can now place their order up to 8pm for free, next day store collection.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
