90 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is eff ective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption General information permitted.
It has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The standard The current financial statements are prepared for the 53 week establishes a principles based approach for revenue recognition period ended 2 April 2016, whereas the prior financial period was and is based on the concept of recognising revenue for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015. obligations only when they are satis ed and the control of Basis of preparation goods or services is transferred.
It applies to all contracts The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with with customers, except those in the scope of other standards.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS It replaces the separate models for goods, services and Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations, as adopted by construction contracts under the current accounting standards.
the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act Based on the Groups preliminary assessment from work 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
performed to date, the Group believes that the adoption of IFRS 15 will not have a material impact on its consolidated results but In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial work is still ongoing to fully quantify its impact.
statements, the directors have considered the business activities as set out on pages 1 to 29 including the Groups principal risks and A summary of the Companys and the Groups accounting policies is uncertainties as set out on pages 27 to 29.
Based on the Groups given below: cash ow forecasts and projections, the Board is satis ed that the Accounting convention Group will be able to operate within the level of its bank facilities for The financial statements are drawn up on the historical cost the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Group continues to adopt basis of accounting, as modi ed by financial assets and financial the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through The Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership has taken an pro t or loss.
exemption under paragraph 7 of the Partnership Accounts Basis of consolidation Regulations 2008 for the requirement to prepare and deliver The Group financial statements incorporate the financial financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act.
statements of Marks and Spencer Group plc and all its subsidiaries New accounting standards adopted by the Group made up to the period end date.
Where necessary, adjustments are There have been no signi cant changes to accounting under IFRS made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the which have aff ected the Groups results.
For the current financial accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
year, the only changes to the IFRS, IFRS IC interpretations and Subsidiaries amendments that are eff ective for the first time in this financial Subsidiary undertakings are all entities including special purpose year are the Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2011-2013 cycle.
entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial These have not had a material impact on the Group.
This power is generally accompanied by the New accounting standards in issue but not yet eff ective Group having a shareholding of more than one half of the voting The following IFRS have been issued but are not yet eff ective: rights.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are recorded using the acquisition method of accounting and their IFRS 16 Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and is eff ective for results are included from the date of acquisition.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Early adoption is permitted if IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The separable net assets, including property, plant and equipment has also been applied.
The standard is yet to be endorsed by and intangible assets, of the newly acquired subsidiary undertakings the EU.
The standard represents a signi cant change in the are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements on the accounting and reporting of leases for lessees as it provides a basis of the fair value as at the eff ective date of control.
single lessee accounting model, and as such, requires lessees Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
underlying asset has a low value or the lease term is 12 months or less.
Accounting requirements for lessors are substantially Revenue unchanged from IAS 17.
The impact of the standard on the Group Revenue comprises sales of goods to customers outside the Group is currently being assessed and it is not yet practicable to quantify less an appropriate deduction for actual and expected returns, the eff ect of IFRS 16 on these consolidated financial statements: discounts and loyalty scheme vouchers, and is stated net of value added tax and other sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when goods IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces all phases of the are delivered to our franchise partners or customers and the financial instruments project and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: signi cant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to Recognition and Measurement.
The standard is eff ective from the buyer.
1 January 2018 and introduces: new requirements for the classi cation and measurement of financial assets and financial Supplier income liabilities: a new model based on expected credit losses for In line with industry practice, the Group enters into agreements recognising provisions: and provides for simpli ed hedge with suppliers to share the costs and bene ts of promotional accounting by aligning hedge accounting more closely with an activity and volume growth.
The Group receives income from its entities risk management methodology.
It is not yet practicable suppliers based on speci c agreements in place.
This supplier to quantify the eff ect of IFRS 9 on the Group.
Work on the impact income received is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales of the new recognition, impairment and general hedge based on the entitlement that has been earned up to the balance accounting requirements is in its early stages and we expect sheet date for each relevant supplier agreement.
Marketing new processes and changes to the existing IT systems may be contributions, equipment hire and other non-judgemental, xed required to aid the Groups implementation of the standard: and rate supplier charges are not included in the Groups fide nition of supplier income.
91 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Remeasurements, being actuarial gains and losses, together with the diff erence between actual investment returns and the return Supplier income continued implied by the net interest cost, are recognised immediately in the The types of supplier income recognised by the Group and the statement of comprehensive income.
associated recognition policies are: Payments to fide ned contribution retirement bene t schemes are A.
Promotional contribution: Includes supplier contributions to charged as an expense on an accruals basis.
promotional giveaways and pre-agreed contributions to annual spend and save activity.
Goodwill: Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the Income is recognised as a deduction to cost of sales over the xcess of the consideration paid and the amount of any none relevant promotional period.
controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Income is calculated and invoiced at the end of the promotional identi able assets and liabilities including intangible assets of the period based on actual sales or according to xed contribution acquired entity at the date of the acquisition.
Contributions earned but not invoiced are accrued as an asset and assessed for impairment annually or as triggering at the end of the relevant period.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
B. Volume-based rebates: Includes annual growth incentives, seasonal contributions and contributions to share economies of B.
Brands: Acquired brand values are held on the statement of scale resulting from moving product supply.
financial position initially at cost.
fide nite life intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Annual growth incentives are calculated and invoiced at the end Inde nite life intangibles are tested for impairment annually or as of the financial year, once earned, based on xed percentage triggering events occur.
Any impairment in value is recognised growth targets agreed for each supplier at the beginning of the immediately in the income statement.
They are recognised as a reduction in cost of sales in the year to which they relate.
Other volume based rebates are agreed with C. Software intangibles: Where computer software is not an the supplier and spread over the relevant season contract period integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software to which they relate.
Contributions earned but not invoiced are is treated as an intangible asset.
Capitalised software costs include accrued at the end of the relevant period.
external direct costs of goods and services, as well as internal payroll related costs for employees who are directly associated Uncollected supplier income at the balance sheet date is classi ed with the project.
within the financial statements as follows: Capitalised software development costs are amortised on A.
Trade and other payables: The majority of income due from a straight-line basis over their expected economic lives, suppliers is netted against amounts owed to that supplier as normally between three and ten years.
Computer software the Group has the right to off set these balances.
As such the under development is held at cost less any recognised impairment outstanding supplier income within trade and other payables at loss.
Any impairment in value is recognised immediately in the year end is immaterial.
Trade and other receivables: Supplier income that has been Property, plant and equipment earned but not invoiced at the balance sheet date is recognised in The Groups policy is to state property, plant and equipment at cost trade and other receivables and primarily relates to volume based less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
rebates that run up to the period end.
Property is not revalued for accounting purposes.
Assets in the In order to provide users of the accounts with greater understanding course of construction are held at cost less any recognised in this area, additional balance sheet disclosure is provided in note 17 impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying to the financial statements.
Dividends Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of tangible nonFinal dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the current assets including investment properties, less estimated period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
residual values, by equal annual instalments as follows: Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are Freehold land not depreciated: approved and paid.
Freehold and leasehold buildings with a remaining lease term Pensions over 50 years depreciated to their residual value over their Funded pension plans are in place for the Groups UK employees estimated remaining economic lives: and some employees overseas.
Leasehold buildings with a remaining lease term of less than For fide ned bene t pension schemes, the diff erence between the 50 years depreciated over the remaining period of the lease: and fair value of the assets and the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation is recognised as an asset or liability in the statement of Fixtures, ttings and equipment 3 to 25 years according to the financial position.
The fide ned bene t obligation is actuarially estimated economic life of the asset.
calculated using the projected unit credit method.
Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually.
The service cost of providing retirement bene ts to employees Depreciation is charged on all additions to, or disposals of, during the year, together with the cost of any bene ts relating to depreciating assets in the year of purchase or disposal.
past service, is charged to operating pro t in the year.
Any impairment in value is recognised immediately in the The net interest cost on the net retirement bene t asset liability is income statement.
calculated by applying the discount rate, measured at the beginning of the year, to the net fide ned bene t asset liability and is included as a single net amount in finance income.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 92 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Taxation Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised Leasing in the income statement, except to the extent it relates to items Where assets are nanced by leasing agreements and the risks and recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, rewards are substantially transferred to the Group finance leases in which case the related tax is also recognised in other the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright, and comprehensive income or directly in equity.
the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets Deferred tax is accounted for using a temporary diff erence is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned approach, and is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable assets, unless the term of the lease is shorter.
Leasing payments on temporary diff erences between the carrying amount of assets are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the and liabilities in the statement of financial position and the interest is charged to the income statement.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable pro t. Deferred tax is calculated based on the expected manner of All other leases are operating leases and the costs in respect of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease liabilities, applying tax rates and laws enacted or substantively term.
The value of any lease incentive received to take on an enacted at the end of the reporting period.
operating lease for example, a rent free period is recognised as deferred income and is released over the life of the lease.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary diff erences.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for Leasehold prepayments taxable temporary diff erences arising on investments in Payments made to acquire leasehold land and buildings are subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the included in prepayments at cost and are amortised over the life reversal of the temporary diff erence can be controlled by the of the lease.
Group and it is probable that the diff erence will not reverse in the Cash and cash equivalents foreseeable future.
Cash and cash equivalents includes short-term deposits with banks Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised on temporary diff erences and other financial institutions, with an initial maturity of three that arise from goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes.
months or less and credit card payments received within 48 hours.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable Inventories that taxable pro ts will be available against which the deductible Inventories are valued on a weighted average cost basis and carried temporary diff erences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all direct deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period expenditure and other attributable costs incurred in bringing and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that inventories to their present location and condition.
All inventories suffi cient taxable pro ts will be available to allow all or part of are nished goods.
Certain purchases of inventories may be subject the asset to be recovered.
to cash ow hedges for foreign exchange risk.
The Group applies a basis adjustment for those purchases in a way that the cost is Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect initially established by reference to the hedged exchange rate and of temporary diff erences that arise on initial recognition of assets not the spot rate at the day of purchase.
and liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
Provisions Financial instruments Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation A.
Trade and other receivables: Trade receivables are recorded at the end of the reporting period, and are discounted to present initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
value where the eff ect is material.
Subsequently, this results in their recognition at nominal value less Share-based payments any allowance for any doubtful debts.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain B.
Other financial assets: Other financial assets consist of employees.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is investments in debt and equity securities and short-term measured at the date of grant.
The Group measures the fair value investments and are classi ed as either available-for-sale or of each award using the Black-Scholes model where appropriate.
fair value through pro t or loss.
Available for sale financial assets The fair value of each award is recognised as an expense over the are initially measured at fair value, including transaction costs vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The level of vesting is Financial assets held at fair value through pro t or loss are initially reviewed at each reporting period and the charge is adjusted to recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed.
re ect actual and estimated levels of vesting.
Where securities are designated as fair value through pro t or loss, Foreign currencies gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the weighted in the income statement for the period.
For available-for-sale average of monthly exchange rates for revenue and pro ts.
The investments, gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are statements of financial position of overseas subsidiaries are recognised in comprehensive income, until the security is disposed translated at year end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain diff erences are booked into reserves and reported in the or loss previously recognised in comprehensive income is included consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
in the income statement for the period.
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at value cannot be reliably measured by other means are held at cost.
the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting cation of financial liabilities and equity: Financial C. Classi period are translated at the closing balance sheet rate.
The resulting liabilities and equity instruments are classi ed according to the exchange gain or loss is recognised within the income statement, substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the cash ow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
93 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in comprehensive income are recognised Financial instruments continued in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged D. Bank borrowings: Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are items aff ect net pro t or loss.
initially recorded at fair value, which equals the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently held at amortised B.
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of a derivative cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement instrument designated in a fair value hedge, or for non-derivatives or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for using an the foreign currency component of carrying value, are recognised in eff ective interest rate method and are added to the carrying the income statement.
The hedged item is adjusted for changes in amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the the period in which they arise.
corresponding entry in the income statement.
E. Loan notes: Long-term loans are initially measured at fair value C. Net investment hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivative or net of direct issue costs and are subsequently held at amortised non-derivative financial instruments that are designated and cost unless the loan is designated in a hedge relationship, in which eff ective as hedges of net investments are recognised in other case hedge accounting treatment will apply.
comprehensive income in the hedging reserve and any ineff ective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
F. Trade payables: Trade payables are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Generally this Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that results in their recognition at their nominal value.
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
G. Equity instruments: Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the consideration received, net of direct issue costs.
D. Discontinuance of hedge accounting: Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities terminated, or exercised, the hedge relationship no longer The Group primarily uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps quali es for hedge accounting, the forecast transaction is no and forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures longer expected to occur or the Group fide-designates the to uctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at the end of When a cash ow hedge is discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss the reporting period.
The method of recognising the resulting gain on the hedging instrument recognised in comprehensive income is or loss is dependent on whether the derivative is designated as retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
Subsequent a hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged.
changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments when the forecast transaction is no longer highly probable but is still The Group designates certain hedging derivatives as either: expected to occur, are recognised in the income statement.
A hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or change in If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net the cash ows of a recognised asset or liability a cash ow hedge : cumulative gain or loss recognised in comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
A hedge of the exposure to change in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability a fair value hedge : or When a fair value hedge is discontinued, the fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged A hedge of the exposure on the translation of net investments in risk is amortised to the income statement from that date.
foreign entities a net investment hedge.
When a net investment hedge is discontinued, the subsequent At the inception of a hedging relationship the hedging instrument changes in fair value of a derivative or foreign exchange gains and the hedged item are documented, along with the risk losses on recognised financial liabilities are recognised in the management objectives and strategy for undertaking various income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument hedge transactions, and prospective eff ectiveness testing is recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassi ed to the performed.
During the life of the hedging relationship, prospective income statement only on disposal of the net investment.
and retrospective eff ectiveness testing is performed to ensure the instrument remains an eff ective hedge of the transaction.
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge income statement Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that translation exposures.
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income Embedded derivatives statement as they arise.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host A.
Cash ow hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and financial instruments that are designated and eff ective as hedges of characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts future cash ows are recognised in other comprehensive income in and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised the hedging reserve and any ineff ective portion is recognised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded immediately in the income statement.
If the rm commitment or derivatives are carried in the statement of financial position at fair forecast transaction that is the subject of a cash ow hedge results value from the inception of the host contract.
in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or liability, then, at the Changes in fair value are recognised within the income statement time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or during the period in which they arise.
losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 94 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED F. Inventory valuation and provisioning: Inventories are stated t the lower of cost and net realisable value, on a weighted average a Critical accounting estimates and judgements cost basis which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires of goods to customers in the future.
Provisions are recognised the Group to make estimates and assumptions that aff ect the where the net realisable value is assessed to be lower than cost.
application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical Non-underlying items experience and other factors, including expectations of future The directors believe that the underlying pro t and earnings events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
per share measures provide additional useful information for Actual results may diff er from these estimates.
The estimates and shareholders on the underlying performance of the business.
assumptions which have a signi cant risk of causing a material These measures are consistent with how underlying business adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are: performance is measured internally.
The underlying pro t before tax measure is not a recognised pro t measure under IFRS and may A. Impairment of goodwill and brands: The Group is required to not be directly comparable with adjusted pro t measures used by test annually or as triggering events occur, whether the goodwill other companies.
The adjustments made to reported pro t before or brands are subject to impairment.
The recoverable amount is tax are to exclude the following: determined based on value in use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash ows and the choice Pro ts and losses on the disposal of properties or impairments of of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of properties where a commitment to close has been demonstrated: these cash ows.
Determination of the appropriate period of future One-off pension credits arising on changes to the fide ned bene t cash ows is also necessary where it would be inappropriate to schemes rules and practices: assume the asset will continue into perpetuity.
Where there is a noncontrolling interest, goodwill is tested for the business as a whole.
Interest relating to signi cant and one-off repayments from tax This involves a notional increase to goodwill, to re ect the nonlitigation claims: controlling shareholders interest.
Actual outcomes could vary from Restructuring costs: those calculated.
See notes 5 and 14 for further details.
Signi cant and one-off impairment charges and provisions that B. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and computer distort underlying trading: software: Property, plant and equipment and computer software are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances Fair value movement in financial instruments: indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When Costs relating to strategy changes that are not considered a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is normal operating costs of the underlying business: determined based on value in use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
See notes Adjustment in income from HSBC in relation to M&S Bank due to 14 and 15 for further details.
a non-recurring provision recognised by M&S Bank for the cost of providing redress to customers in respect of possible mis-selling C. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and of M&S Bank financial products: and amortisation of computer software: Depreciation and amortisation is provided so as to write down the assets to their Ex-gratia payment received from HSBC in relation to the residual values over their estimated useful lives as set out above.
The selection of these residual values and estimated lives requires the exercise of management judgement.
See notes 14 and 15 for further details.
D. Post-retirement bene ts: The determination of the pension cost and fide ned bene t obligation of the Groups fide ned bene t pension schemes depends on the selection of certain assumptions which include the discount rate, in ation rate, salary growth, mortality and expected return on scheme assets.
Diff erences arising from actual experiences or future changes in assumptions will be re ected in subsequent periods.
See note 11 for further details of assumptions and note 12 for critical judgements associated with the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme interest in the Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership.
E. Refunds, gift cards and loyalty scheme accruals: Accruals for sales returns, deferred income in relation to loyalty scheme redemptions and gift card and credit voucher redemptions are estimated on the basis of historical returns and redemptions.
These are recorded so as to allocate them to the same period as that in which the original revenue is recorded.
These balances are reviewed regularly and updated to re ect managements latest best estimates.
However, actual returns and redemptions could vary from those estimates.
95 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identi ed on the basis of internal reporting on components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The chief operating decision maker has been identi ed as the executive directors.
The executive directors review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources across each operating segment.
The operating segments are UK and International which are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the executive directors.
The UK segment consists of the UK retail business and UK franchise operations.
The International segment consists of Marks & Spencer owned businesses in the Republic of Ireland, Europe and Asia, together with international franchise operations.
The executive directors assess the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of operating pro t. This measurement basis excludes the eff ects of non-underlying items from the operating segments.
The executive directors also monitor revenue within the segments and gross pro t within the UK segment.
To increase transparency, the Group has decided to include an additional voluntary disclosure analysing revenue within the reportable segments by subcategory and gross pro t within the UK segment by subcategory.
Adjustments to revenue in the prior year relate to refunds recognised in cost of sales for management accounting purposes last year 1.3m credit and an adjustment for agency transactions presented gross in management accounts last year 0.3m charge.
In the current year these adjustments are re ected in the management number.
Management gross pro t for the UK segment excludes certain expenses resulting in an adjustment between cost of sales and selling and administrative expenses of 300.9m last year 293.4m.
Management pro t excludes the adjustments income or charges made to reported pro t before tax that are one-off in nature, signi cant and distort the Groups underlying performance see note 5.
Other segmental information 2016 2015 UK International Total UK International Total m m m m m m Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill 624.9 20.0 644.9 544.4 33.4 577.8 Depreciation and amortisation 531.9 30.9 562.8 490.8 32.0 522.8 Impairment and asset write-off s 60.8 98.8 159.6 36.0 35.3 71.3 Total assets 8,062.3 414.1 8,476.4 7,763.2 432.9 8,196.1 Non-current assets 6,751.9 263.1 7,015.0 6,424.0 317.1 6,741.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 96 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 EXPENSE ANALYSIS 2016 2015 Total Total m m Revenue 10,555.4 10,311.4 Cost of sales 6,427.0 6,325.9 Gross pro t 4,128.4 3,985.5 Selling and administrative expenses 3,412.9 3,304.8 Other operating income 69.4 81.8 Underlying operating pro t 784.9 762.5 Non-underlying items see note 5 200.8 61.2 Operating pro t 584.1 701.3 The selling and administrative expenses excluding non-underlying items are further analysed below: 2016 2015 Total Total m m 1 Employee costs 1,435.7 1,360.7 Occupancy costs 723.2 709.0 Repairs, renewals and maintenance of property 99.5 104.9 Depreciation, amortisation and underlying asset impairments and write-off s 576.8 550.1 Other costs 577.7 580.1 Selling and administrative expenses 3,412.9 3,304.8 1.
There are an additional 51.0m last year 45.5m of employee costs recorded within cost of sales.
These costs are included within note 10A.
4 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION The following items have been included in arriving at pro t before taxation: 2016 2015 m m Net foreign exchange losses gains 6.9 12.7 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 5,778.6 5,746.2 Depreciation of property, plant, and equipment owned assets 412.7 396.8 under finance leases 1.4 3.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 148.7 122.7 Pro t loss on property disposals 0.6 2.3 Impairments and write-off s of assets 159.6 71.3 Operating lease rentals payable property 337.1 318.8 xtures, ttings and equipment 3.5 2.8 Included in administrative expenses is the auditors remuneration, including expenses for audit and non-audit services, payable to the Companys auditor Deloitte LLP and its associates as follows: 2016 2015 m m Annual audit of the Company and the consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.7 Audit of subsidiary companies 0.7 0.6 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.2 Total audit and audit-related assurance services fees 1.6 1.5 Tax compliance services 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.4 Total other services 0.1 0.5 97 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 NON UNDERLYING ITEMS In order to provide shareholders with a measure of the true underlying performance of the business and to allow a more understandable assessment of its position, the Group makes certain adjustments to the reported pro t before tax.
These adjustments for non-underlying items are made in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and are one-off in nature, material by size and are considered to be distortive of the true underlying performance of the business.
The total non-underlying items reported for the 53 week period ended 2 April 2016 is a net charge of 200.8m.
The adjustments made to reported pro t before tax to arrive at underlying pro t are: 2016 2015 Notes m m Net M&S Bank charges incurred in relation to the insurance mis-selling provision 50.3 13.8 Restructuring credits costs 15,22 9.2 4.6 UK store review 15,22 26.7 UK one-off impairment costs 23.7 International store closure costs and impairments 15,22 31.6 37.2 International impairment of goodwill 14 19.1 International other impairments 14,15 51.7 Pro t loss on property disposal and impairment following a commitment being made to close stores 15,22 10.3 6.9 IAS 39 Fair value movement of embedded derivative 21 2.0 1.3 Net gain on acquisition of joint venture holding Bradford warehouse 25 5.4 Adjustment to pro t before tax 200.8 61.2 Net M&S Bank charges incurred in relation to the insurance mis-selling provision The Group has an economic interest in M&S Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC, by way of a Relationship Agreement that entitles the Group to a 50% share of the pro ts of M&S Bank after appropriate deductions.
The Group does not share in any losses of M&S Bank and is not obliged to refund any fees received from HSBC although future income may be impacted by signi cant one-off deductions.
Since the year ended 31 December 2012, M&S Bank has recognised, in its audited financial statements, an estimated liability for redress to customers in respect of possible mis-selling of financial products.
The Groups fee income from M&S Bank has been reduced by the deduction of this estimated liability in both the current and prior years.
The total charge to date for the deduction in the Groups fee income is 189.4m.
The deduction in the period is 50.3m.
On 26 September 2014, the Group reached agreement with M&S Bank and HSBC over a number of issues in connection with the Relationship Agreement including the extent of historical mis-selling charges.
This resulted in an ex gratia payment to the Group of 40.0m by HSBC which was recognised as a non-underlying credit in the prior period net of 0.1m legal fees.
Restructuring credits costs The 9.2m restructuring credit in the year relates primarily to the Groups ongoing strategy to transition to a single tier distribution network and the closure costs of the legacy logistics sites.
The net credit in the year arises due to an updated view of the site closure proposals which has resulted in the retention of some sites initially announced for closure, an updated view of the estimated costs associated with closure and the successful assignment of a lease that had initially been provided for as onerous.
UK store review The UK store review relates to a strategic multi-year programme which was announced during the year.
As part of this programme, ine UK stores have been closed in the period resulting in charges of 26.7m being incurred.
These charges relate to dilapidations n and sublet shortfalls, accelerated depreciation of xtures and ttings, impairments of land and buildings and redundancy costs.
UK one-off impairment costs As part of the ongoing review of the Clothing & Home business, signi cant changes in both the trading strategy and the store ranging strategy were made.
As a result of these changes, elements of the new buying and merchandising systems will no longer be used and as a result investment in these elements of the system have been written off, resulting in a one-off charge of 23.7m.
International store closure costs and impairments ed a number of stores across the portfolio where current and The international store impairment tests during the year have identi anticipated future performance will not support the carrying value of the stores.
As a result, one-off impairment charges of 21.9m have been incurred, primarily in Western Europe and Asia.
Closure costs of 6.5m were incurred on the exit of stores, primarily in the Balkans region.
In addition, separately capitalised staffi ng costs of 3.2m relating to property and store design projects for closed impaired international stores have been written off during the year.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 98 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 NON UNDERLYING ITEMS CONTINUED International impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on business combinations is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment are identi ed.
The goodwill impairment test involves an assessment of the carrying value relative to the value in use of the CGU calculated using the three year plans reviewed by the Board.
Where the carrying value exceeds the value in use an impairment charge is recognised.
During the year indicators of impairment have been identi ed in respect of both the Czech Group and the Hungarian businesses.
The performance of the Czech Group during the year has been heavily impacted by challenging trading conditions and weakening currencies.
These have had a detrimental impact on the business ability to improve pro tability year-on-year.
As a result, the future cash ows of the business no longer support the carrying value of the goodwill resulting in a full impairment of the goodwill balance of 15.8m.
The Hungarian retail market has been impacted by challenging trading conditions resulting in a decrease in gross pro t and reduced expectations of future growth.
As a result, the future cash ows of the business no longer support the carrying value of the goodwill resulting in a full impairment of the goodwill balance of 3.3m.
International other impairments The M&S Mode brand was acquired in 2011 giving the Group the right to use the M&S brand in certain European markets.
The valuation of this asset is supported by the cash ows of both owned and franchised European businesses.
The deterioration in the current year trading performance across several of these markets most notably Greece, France, the Czech Group and Hungary and the consequential impact on expected future year cash ows have resulted in the carrying value of the brand no longer being supportable.
As a result a full impairment of 32.4m has been recognised in the year.
E-SAP is an enterprise management system used solely by owned businesses in Greece, the Czech Group and Hungary.
As highlighted above, the expected future cash ows of these countries have been impacted by challenging trading conditions and weakening currencies.
There are no plans to implement E-SAP across other international territories.
As a result, the cash ows can no longer support the carrying value of the E-SAP system and an impairment charge of the full 19.3m has been recognised in the year.
Pro t loss on property disposal and impairment following a commitment being made to close stores During the year the Group recognised a net pro t of 0.6m on the disposal of stores in Hartlepool, Harlow and Gloucester.
As a result of historic store closures, the Group has a small non-operating portfolio of properties.
The strategy is to market the properties for sale or lease assignment or to explore sub-let opportunities where a sale or assignment is not achievable.
A detailed review of the realisable value of these assets has been performed during the year which has identi ed a one-off charge of 10.9m.
IAS 39 Fair value movement of embedded derivative The embedded derivative arose in respect of a lease contract for the Bradford distribution warehouse held within the Lima Bradford S. r. l. joint venture.
The lease contained both a rental increase cap and oor resulting in an embedded derivative being recognised in the Statement of FInancial Position and fair valued each reporting period.
The fair value movement in the derivative during the period until acquisition was 2.0m.
Net gain on acquisition of joint venture holding Bradford warehouse On 29 February 2016, the Group purchased the remaining 50% of the Lima Bradford S. r. l. joint venture for cash consideration of 56.2m.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations this acquisition was treated as a stepped acquisition resulting in a one-off fair value gain of 27.1m.
Following the Group's acquisition, the embedded derivative in respect of the lease contract for the warehouse see note above 'IAS 39 Fair value movement of embedded derivative has been derecognised from the Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a one-off cost of 21.7m.
Refer to note 25 for more detail on this business combination.
6 FINANCE INCOME COSTS 2016 2015 m m Bank and other interest receivable 5.8 5.0 Pension net finance income see note 11 15.3 10.5 Finance income 21.1 15.5 Interest on bank borrowings 3.6 3.3 Interest payable on syndicated bank facility 5.5 6.4 Interest payable on medium-term notes 89.9 88.1 Interest payable on finance leases 1.9 2.0 Unwind of discount on financial instruments 0.4 0.6 Unwind of discount on provisions see note 22 0.4 0.3 Unwind of discount on partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme see note 12 14.7 16.1 Finance costs 116.4 116.8 Net finance costs 95.3 101.3 99 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 INCOME TAX EXPENSE A.
Taxation charge 2016 2015 m m Current tax UK corporation tax on pro ts for the year at 20% last year 21% current year 111.6 106.5 adjustments in respect of prior years 5.6 7.5 UK current tax 106.0 99.0 Overseas current taxation current year 12.4 12.3 adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 3.0 Total current taxation 117.9 108.3 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary diff erences 28.3 5.8 adjustments in respect of prior years 2.6 4.5 changes in tax rate 7.8 0.3 Total deferred tax see note 23 33.5 10.0 Total income tax expense 84.4 118.3 B.
Taxation reconciliation The eff ective tax rate was 17.3% last year 19.7% and is reconciled below: 2016 2015 m m Pro t before tax 488.8 600.0 Notional taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 20% last year 21% 97.8 126.0 Depreciation and other amounts in relation to xed assets that do not qualify for tax relief 2.3 5.3 Other income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable for tax purposes 9.6 9.9 Recalculation of deferred tax balances due to the change in statutory UK tax rates 7.8 0.3 Overseas pro ts taxed at rates diff erent to those of the UK 4.3 7.9 Overseas tax losses where there is no relief anticipated in the foreseeable future 3.7 4.8 Adjustments to current and deferred tax charges in respect of prior periods 3.5 6.1 Adjustments to underlying pro t: depreciation and other amounts in relation to xed assets that do not qualify for tax relief 2.6 international store review charges where no tax relief is available 15.3 7.7 pro ts losses on property disposals 1.5 1.3 acquisition of Lima Bradford S. r. l. joint venture 5.4 recalculation of deferred tax balances due to change in statutory UK tax rates 0.1 overseas pro ts taxed at rates diff erent to those of the UK 5.2 0.1 Total income tax expense 84.4 118.3 After excluding non-underlying items the underlying eff ective tax rate was 17.2% last year 18.9%.
On 18 November 2015, the Finance Bill received Royal Assent and so the previously announced reductions in the rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020 were enacted.
The Group has remeasured its UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period at the rates of 20%, 19% and 18% based on an expectation of when those balances are expected to unwind.
This has resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax credit of 7.6m in the income statement and the recognition of a deferred tax credit of 20.9m in other comprehensive income.
Also included in the total deferred tax credit above of 7.8m is 0.2m relating to rate changes in Slovakia.
On 16 March 2016, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced that the planned reduction to 18% from 1 April 2020 would instead be a reduction to 17%.
The Finance Bill was not substantively enacted at the year end date therefore the Group has not recognised the one-off impact of remeasuring balances from 18% to 17%.
However, if 17% was applied, it is estimated that this would result in a further deferred tax credit of 3.5m in the income statement and the recognition of a further deferred tax credit of 9.6m in other comprehensive income.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 100 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED C Current tax reconciliation The current tax reconciliation shows the main adjustments made to the Groups accounting pro ts in order to arrive at its taxable pro ts.
The reconciling items diff er from those in note 7B as the eff ects of deferred tax timing diff erences are ignored below.
2016 2015 m m Pro t before taxation 488.8 600.0 Notional taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 20% last year: 21% 97.8 126.0 Disallowable accounting depreciation and other similar items 85.4 86.1 Deductible capital allowances 71.5 76.9 Allowable deductions for employee share schemes 3.4 10.2 Allowable deductions for employee pension schemes 13.4 15.6 Overseas pro ts taxed at rates diff erent to those of the UK 4.3 5.7 Overseas tax losses where there is no immediate relief 3.7 4.8 Other income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable 7.6 1.9 Adjustments to underlying pro t: international store review charges where no tax relief is available 21.0 7.7 pro ts losses on property disposals 0.5 0.5 UK property and investment deductions where no tax relief is available 7.5 0.6 acquisition of Lima Bradford S. r. l. joint venture 5.4 embedded derivative 4.7 0.3 overseas pro ts taxed at rates diff erent to those of the UK 5.2 0.1 Current year current tax charge 124.0 118.8 Represented by: UK current year current tax 111.6 106.5 Overseas current year current tax 12.4 12.3 124.0 118.8 UK adjustments in respect of prior years 5.6 7.5 Overseas adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 3.0 Total current taxation note 7A 117.9 108.3 101 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8 EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on earnings after tax and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The underlying earnings per share gures have also been calculated based on earnings before items that are one-off in nature, material by size and are considered to be distortive of the true underlying performance of the business see note 5.
These have been calculated to allow the shareholders to gain an understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Group has four classes of dilutive potential ordinary shares being those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year, unvested shares granted under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, unvested shares granted under the Restricted Share Plan and unvested shares within the Performance Share Plan that have met the relevant performance conditions at the end of the reporting period.
Details of the underlying earnings per share are set out below: 2016 2015 m m Pro t attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 406.9 486.5 Add less net of tax : Net M&S Bank charges incurred in relation to the insurance mis-selling provision 40.2 10.9 Restructuring credits costs 7.3 3.9 UK store review 21.7 UK one-off impairment costs 19.0 International store closure costs and impairments 25.2 36.6 International impairment of goodwill 19.1 International other impairments 47.8 Pro t loss on property disposal and impairment following a commitment being made to close stores 8.8 4.3 IAS 39 Fair value movement of embedded derivative 1.6 1.0 Net gain on acquisition of joint venture holding Bradford warehouse 9.7 Underlying pro t attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 573.3 541.2 Million Million Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 1,635.9 1,635.6 Potentially dilutive share options under Groups share option schemes 6.3 11.3 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares 1,642.2 1,646.9 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 24.9 29.7 Diluted earnings per share 24.8 29.5 Underlying basic earnings per share 35.0 33.1 Underlying diluted earnings per share 34.9 32.9 9 DIVIDENDS 2016 2015 2016 2015 per share per share m m Dividends on equity ordinary shares Paid final dividend 11.6p 10.8p 190.8 176.2 Paid interim dividend 6.8p 6.4p 110.9 104.5 18.4p 17.2p 301.7 280.7 The directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 2 April 2016 of 11.9p per share last year 11.6p amounting to a dividend of 192.6m last year 190.8m.
The payment is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 12 July 2016.
In addition, the Board have declared the payment of a Special dividend of 4.6p per share amounting to a dividend of c. 75m.
Both the Special and the Final dividends will be paid on 15 July 2016 to the shareholders on the register of members as at close of business on 3 June 2016.
In line with the requirements of IAS 10 Events after the reporting period, these dividends have not been recognised within these results.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available to shareholders who would prefer to invest their dividends in the shares of the Company.
The shares will go ex-dividend on 2 June 2016.
For those shareholders electing to receive the DRIP the last date for receipt of a new election is 24 June 2016.
The Group has a progressive dividend policy with dividends covered broadly twice by earnings as explained in the Financial Review on page 23.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 102 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 EMPLOYEES A.
Aggregate remuneration The aggregate remuneration and associated costs of Group employees including executive directors were: 2016 2015 Total Total m m Wages and salaries 1,278.8 1,224.3 Social security costs 80.6 80.9 Pension costs see note 11 102.0 85.4 Share-based payments see note 13 16.0 1.1 Employee welfare and other personnel costs 46.7 49.7 Capitalised staffi ng costs 37.4 33.0 Total aggregate remuneration 1,486.7 1,406.2 Details of key management compensation are given in note 29.
Average monthly number of employees 2016 2015 UK stores management and supervisory categories 5,696 5,516 other 63,733 64,182 UK head offi ce management and supervisory categories 3,191 3,055 other 881 866 UK operations management and supervisory categories 257 225 other 1,127 835 Overseas 8,063 8,390 Total average number of employees 82,948 83,069 If the number of hours worked was converted on the basis of a normal working week, the equivalent average number of full-time employees would have been 58,895 last year 59,096.
11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group provides pension arrangements for the bene t of its UK employees through the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme a fide ned bene t arrangement which was closed to new entrants with eff ect from 1 April 2002 and Your M&S Pension Saving Plan a fide ned contribution arrangement which has been open to new members with eff ect from 1 April 2003.
The fide ned contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund such contributions are based upon a xed percentage of employees pay.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once the contributions have been paid.
Members bene ts are determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the member, together with the investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals investments and how each member chooses to receive their retirement bene ts.
As a result, actuarial risk that bene ts will be lower than expected and investment risk that assets invested in will not perform in line with expectations fall on the employee.
The fide ned bene t arrangement operates on a final salary basis and at the year end had 11,176 active members last year 11,899, 53,589 deferred members last year 54,314 and 51,047 pensioners last year 51,114.
At the year end, the fide ned contribution arrangement had 40,712 active members last year 37,570 and 8,823 deferred members last year 6,135.
The scheme is governed by a trustee board which is independent of the Group.
The Group also operates a small funded fide ned bene t pension scheme in the Republic of Ireland.
This scheme closed to future accrual from 31 October 2013.
Retirement bene ts also include a UK post-retirement healthcare scheme and unfunded retirement bene ts.
103 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED Within the total Group retirement bene t cost of 86.7m last year 74.9m, 41.0m last year 33.7m relates to the UK fide ned bene t scheme, 40.3m last year 36.4m to the UK fide ned contribution scheme and 5.4m last year 4.8m to other retirement bene t schemes.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme was carried out at 31 March 2015 and showed a funding surplus of 204m.
The valuation is based on the same methodology adopted for the 2012 valuation but incorporates the latest asset values and revised assumptions.
The Company and Trustees have agreed to continue with the current strategy to fide-risk over the long term, with no change to the agreed additional cash contributions due to be paid into the scheme in respect of bene ts already accrued by members.
This meant that the Group paid an additional contribution of 28m in March 2016 and will pay a further 28m by 31 March 2017.
In addition, it was agreed that ongoing contributions paid into the scheme to cover future bene ts earned by members will increase from 23.4% to 34.3% of pensionable salaries.
By funding its fide ned bene t pension schemes, the Group is exposed to the risk that the cost of meeting its obligations is higher than anticipated.
This could occur for several reasons, for example: Investment returns on the schemes assets may be lower than anticipated, especially if falls in asset values are not matched by similar falls in the value of the schemes liabilities.
The level of price in ation may be higher than that assumed, resulting in higher payments from the schemes.
Scheme members may live longer than assumed, for example due to unanticipated advances in medical healthcare.
Members may also exercise or not exercise options in a way that lead to increases in the schemes liabilities, for example through early retirement or commutation of pension for cash.
Legislative changes could also lead to an increase in the schemes liabilities.
In addition, the Group has an obligation to the UK fide ned bene t scheme via the interest in the Scottish Limited Partnership refer to note 12, through which the Group is exposed to additional risks.
In particular, under the legal terms of the Partnership, a default by the Group on the rental payments to the Partnership or a future change in legislation could trigger earlier or higher payments to the Pension Scheme, or an increase in the collateral to be provided by the Group.
Pensions and other post-retirement liabilities 2016 2015 m m Total market value of assets 8,515.3 8,596.5 Present value of scheme liabilities 7,682.3 8,135.8 Net funded pension plan asset 833.0 460.7 Unfunded retirement bene ts 0.9 0.7 Post-retirement healthcare 8.0 11.0 Net retirement bene t asset 824.1 449.0 Analysed in the statement of financial position as: Retirement bene t asset 851.0 460.7 Retirement bene t fide cit 26.9 11.7 Net retirement bene t asset 824.1 449.0 The asset recognised for the UK fide ned bene t scheme is based on the assumption that the full surplus will ultimately be available to the Group as a future refund of surplus.
Financial assumptions The financial assumptions for the UK fide ned bene t scheme and the most recent actuarial valuations of the other post-retirement schemes have been updated by independent quali ed actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Bene ts in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes and are as follows: 2016 2015 % % Rate of increase in salaries 1.0 1.0 Rate of increase in pensions in payment for service 1.9-3.0 1.9-3.0 Discount rate 3.40 3.10 In ation rate 2.95 3.10 Long-term healthcare cost increases 6.95 7.10 The in ation rate of 2.95% last year 3.10% re ects the Retail Price Index RPI rate.
Certain bene ts have been calculated with reference to the Consumer Price Index CPI as the in ationary measure and in these instances a rate of 1.95% last year 2.10% has been used.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 104 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED C. Demographic assumptions The demographic assumptions are in line with those adopted for the last formal actuarial valuation of the scheme performed as at 31 March 2015.
The post-retirement mortality assumptions are based on an analysis of the pensioner mortality trends under the scheme for the period to March 2015.
The speci c mortality rates used are based on the VITA tables.
The life expectancies underlying the valuation are as follows: 2016 2015 Current pensioners at age 65 males 23.1 22.7 females 24.6 24.4 Future pensioners currently in active status at age 65 males 23.6 22.4 females 26.2 25.1 Future pensioners currently in deferred status at age 65 males 24.1 23.2 females 26.4 26.0 D. Sensitivity analysis The table below summarises the estimated impact of changes in the principal actuarial assumptions on the pension scheme surplus: 2016 2015 m m Decrease in scheme surplus caused by a decrease in the discount rate of 0.25% 90.0 70.0 Increase in scheme surplus caused by a decrease in the in ation rate of 0.25% 20.0 30.0 Increase in scheme surplus caused by a decrease in the average life expectancy of one year 300.0 330.0 The sensitivity analysis above is based on a change in one assumption while holding all others constant.
Therefore interdependencies between the assumptions have not been taken into account within the analysis.
E. Analysis of assets The investment strategy of the UK fide ned bene t scheme is driven by its liability pro le, including its in ation-linked pension bene ts.
In addition to its interest in the Scottish Limited Partnership refer to note 12, the scheme invests in diff erent types of bonds including corporate bonds and gilts and derivative instruments including in ation, interest rate, cross-currency and total return swaps in order to align movements in the value of its assets with movements in its liabilities arising from changes in market conditions.
Broadly the scheme has hedging that covers 90% of interest rate movements and 85% of in ation movements, as measured on the Trustees' funding assumptions which use a discount rate derived from gilt yields.
The fair value of the total plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category, are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Debt investments 1 government bonds net of repurchase agreements 4,165.7 4,180.0 corporate bonds 1,058.2 1,211.0 asset backed securities and structured debt 459.0 363.9 Scottish Limited Partnership interest see note 12 469.5 531.3 Equity investments quoted 1,047.5 1,131.8 Equity investments unquoted 236.7 178.0 Property 420.7 327.1 Derivatives interest and in ation rate swap contracts 101.5 127.5 foreign exchange contracts and other derivatives 142.0 190.9 Hedge and reinsurance funds 317.9 313.6 Cash and cash equivalents 190.5 306.2 Other 109.1 9.8 8,515.3 8,596.5 1.
Repurchase agreements were 1,333.0m last year 805.0m.
The fair values of the above equity and debt investments are determined based on publicly available market prices wherever available.
Unquoted investments, hedge funds and reinsurance funds are stated at fair value estimates provided by the manager of the investment or fund.
Property includes both quoted and unquoted investments.
The market value of the Scottish Limited Partnership interest is based on the expected cash ows and benchmark asset-backed credit spreads.
It is the policy of the Scheme to hedge a proportion of interest rate and in ation risk.
The Scheme reduces its foreign currency exposure using forward foreign exchange contracts.
At year end, the UK fide ned bene t scheme indirectly held 169,509 last year 199,032 ordinary shares in the Company through its investment in UK Equity Index Funds.
105 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED F. Analysis of amounts charged against pro ts Amounts recognised in comprehensive income in respect of retirement bene t plans are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Current service cost 98.0 82.4 Administration costs 3.0 2.0 Past service costs curtailment charge 1.0 1.0 Net interest income 15.3 10.5 Total 86.7 74.9 Remeasurement on the net fide ned bene t surplus: actual return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in net interest income 156.3 1,722.4 actuarial gain experience 164.8 33.7 actuarial loss demographic assumptions 100.8 83.9 actuarial gain loss financial assumptions 438.5 1,478.5 Components of fide ned bene t gain recognised in other comprehensive income 346.2 193.7 G. Scheme assets Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Fair value of scheme assets at start of year 8,596.5 6,729.4 Interest income based on discount rate 262.4 293.0 Actual return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in net interest income 156.3 1,722.4 Employer contributions 118.4 143.0 Bene ts paid 311.7 276.5 Administration costs 3.0 2.0 Exchange movement 9.0 12.8 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 8,515.3 8,596.5 1.
The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 106.1m last year gain of 2,015.4m.
H. Pensions and other post-retirement liabilities Changes in the present value of retirement bene t obligations are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Present value of obligation at start of year 8,147.5 6,540.4 Current service cost 98.0 82.4 Curtailment charge 1.0 1.0 Interest cost 247.1 282.5 Bene ts paid 311.7 276.5 Actuarial gain experience 164.8 33.7 Actuarial loss demographic assumptions 100.8 83.9 Actuarial gain loss financial assumptions 438.5 1,478.5 Exchange movement 11.8 11.0 Present value of obligation at end of year 7,691.2 8,147.5 Analysed as: Present value of pension scheme liabilities 7,682.3 8,135.8 Unfunded pension plans 0.9 0.7 Post-retirement healthcare 8.0 11.0 Present value of obligation at end of year 7,691.2 8,147.5 The average duration of the fide ned bene t obligation at 2 April 2016 is 18 years last year 18 years.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 106 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 MARKS AND SPENCER SCOTTISH LIMITED PARTNERSHIP Marks and Spencer plc is a general partner and the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme is a limited partner of the Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership the Partnership.
As such, the Partnership is consolidated into the results of the Group.
The Partnership holds 1.6bn last year 1.6bn of properties which have been leased back to Marks and Spencer plc.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the exibility to substitute alternative properties into the partnership.
The limited partnership interest held by the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme entitles the Pension Scheme to receive an annual distribution of 71.9m from the pro ts of the Partnership earned from rental income.
The Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme of 455.7m last year 512.9m is valued at the net present value of the future expected distributions from the Partnership to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme as limited partner.
During the year to 2 April 2016 an interest charge of 14.7m last year 16.1m was recognised in the income statement representing the unwind of the discount included in this obligation.
Under IAS 19, the Partnership interest of the Pension Scheme in the Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership is included within the UK pension scheme assets, valued at 469.5m last year 531.3m, refer to note 11E.
13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS This year a charge of 16.0m was recognised for share-based payments last year credit of 1.1m.
Of the total share-based payments charge 9.5m last year 9.0m relates to the Save As You Earn Share Option scheme and a charge of 1.1m last year credit of 15.0m relates to Performance Share Plans.
The remaining charge of 5.4m last year 4.9m is spread over the other schemes.
Further details of the option and share schemes that the Group operates are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 71.
Save As You Earn Scheme Sharesave, the Companys Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme, was approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
Under the terms of the scheme, the Board may off er options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company once in each financial year to those employees who enter into Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC approved SAYE savings contract.
The Company has chosen to cap the maximum monthly saving amount at 250 which is below the 500 per month allowed under HMRC Approved Schemes.
The price at which options may be off ered is 80% of the average mid-market price for three consecutive dealing days preceding the off er date.
The options may normally be exercised during the six month period after the completion of the SAYE contract.
2016 2015 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average options exercise price options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 29,530,523 357.6p 34,423,922 311.6p Granted 10,437,215 432.0p 14,389,736 369.0p Exercised 6,645,922 302.6p 14,602,805 256.8p Forfeited 2,967,697 382.5p 4,485,417 371.5p Expired 199,572 317.2p 194,913 302.8p Outstanding at end of year 30,154,547 393.3p 29,530,523 357.6p Exercisable at end of year 1,936,860 315.3p 1,352,847 268.7p For SAYE share options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 443.9p last year 471.8p.
The fair values of the options granted during the year have been calculated using the Black-Scholes model assuming the inputs shown below: 2016 2015 3-year plan 3-year plan Grant date Nov 15 Nov 14 Share price at grant date 520p 460p Exercise price 432p 369p Option life in years 3 years 3 years Risk-free rate 0.9% 0.9% Expected volatility 23.4% 23.6% Expected dividend yield 3.7% 3.9% Fair value of option 96p 91p Volatility has been estimated by taking the historic volatility in the Companys share price over a three-year period.
The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three years on the assumption that 10% last year 10% of options will lapse over the service period as employees leave the Group.
107 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Outstanding options granted under the UK Employees SAYE Scheme are as follows: Weighted average remaining Number of options contractual life years Options granted 2016 2015 2016 2015 Option price January 2012 1,335,181 0.3 258p January 2013 1,917,252 7,499,742 0.2 1.3 312p January 2014 5,918,608 6,652,869 1.2 2.3 405p January 2015 12,334,645 14,042,731 2.2 3.3 369p January 2016 9,984,042 3.2 432p 30,154,547 29,530,523 2.3 2.4 393p B.
Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan is the primary long-term incentive plan for approximately 150 of the most senior managers within the Group.
It was first approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM and re-approved at the 2015 AGM.
Under the Plan, annual awards, based on a percentage of salary, may be off ered.
The extent to which an award vests is measured over a three-year period against a balanced scorecard of financial measures which for 2015 16 included Earnings Per Share EPS, Return on Capital Employed ROCE and Revenue.
The value of any dividends earned on the vested shares during the three years will also be paid on vesting.
Further details are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 71.
Awards under this scheme have been made in each year since 2005.
During the year, 5,850,134 shares last year 7,338,609 were awarded under the Plan.
The weighted average fair value of the shares awarded was 533.2p last year 439.3p.
As at 2 April 2016, 15,749,605 shares last year 18,805,388 were outstanding under the scheme.
C. Deferred Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Share Bonus Plan was introduced in 2005 06 as part of the Annual Bonus Scheme for approximately 500 of the most senior managers within the Group.
As part of the scheme, the managers are required to defer a proportion of any bonus paid into shares which will be held for three years.
There are no further performance conditions on these shares, other than continued employment within the Group and the value of any dividends earned during the deferred period will also be paid on vesting.
During the year, 1,044,961 shares last year 20,822 have been awarded under the Plan in relation to the annual bonus.
The fair value of the shares awarded was 548.3p last year 437.0p.
As at 2 April 2016, 2,586,096 shares last year 2,487,477 were outstanding under the scheme.
D. Restricted Share Plan The Restricted Share Plan was established in 2000 as part of the reward strategy for retention and recruitment of senior managers who are vital to the success of the business.
The Plan operates for senior managers below executive director level.
Awards vest at the end of the restricted period typically between one and three years subject to the participant still being in employment of the Group on the relevant vesting date.
The value of any dividends earned during the restricted period will also be paid at the time of vesting.
During the year, 221,681 shares last year 1,001,076 have been awarded under the Plan.
The weighted average fair value of the shares awarded was 454.4p last year 450.5p.
As at 2 April 2016, 1,285,666 shares last year 1,963,139 were outstanding under the scheme.
E. Republic of Ireland Save As You Earn Scheme Sharesave, the Companys Save As You Earn Scheme was introduced in 2009 to all employees in the Republic of Ireland for a ten-year period, after approval by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
The scheme is subject to Irish Revenue rules which limit the maximum monthly saving to 500 per month.
The Company chose in 2009 to set a monthly savings cap of 320 per month to align the maximum savings amount to that allowed within the UK scheme.
When the savings contract is started, options are granted to acquire the number of shares that the total savings will buy when the contract matures, at a discounted price set at the start of the scheme.
The price at which the options may be off ered is 80% of the average mid-market price for three consecutive days preceding the off er date.
Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed.
During the year, 160,113 options last year 121,086 were granted, at a fair value of 95.6p last year 90.8p.
As at 2 April 2016, 312,826 options last year 288,162 were outstanding under the scheme.
F. Marks and Spencer Employee Bene t Trust The Marks and Spencer Employee Bene t Trust the Trust holds 4,087,837 last year 3,912,120 shares with a book value of 20.6m last year 19.1m and a market value of 16.6m last year 20.7m.
These shares were acquired by the Trust in the market and are shown as a reduction in retained earnings in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Awards are granted to employees at the discretion of Marks and Spencer plc and the Trust agrees to satisfy the awards in accordance with the wishes of Marks and Spencer plc under senior executive share schemes.
Dividends are waived on all of these plans.
G. ShareBuy In the current year, ShareBuy, the Company's new Share Incentive Plan was launched.
This enables participants to buy shares directly from their gross salary.
This scheme does not attract an IFRS 2 charge.
For the purposes of calculating the number of shares awarded, the share price used is the average of the mid-market price for the five consecutive dealing days preceding the grant date.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 108 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer Computer software under Goodwill Brands software development Total m m m m m At 29 March 2014 Cost or valuation 129.6 112.4 878.6 118.4 1,239.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 34.4 50.5 345.7 430.6 Net book value 95.2 61.9 532.9 118.4 808.4 Year ended 28 March 2015 Opening net book value 95.2 61.9 532.9 118.4 808.4 Additions 0.1 79.4 98.5 178.0 Transfers 130.1 130.1 Disposals 1.4 1.4 Asset write-off s 2.4 1.2 3.6 Amortisation charge 5.3 117.4 122.7 Exchange diff erence 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.5 Closing net book value 95.3 56.7 620.8 85.4 858.2 At 28 March 2015 Cost or valuation 129.7 112.5 1,087.7 86.6 1,416.5 Accumulated amortisation, impairments and write-off s 34.4 55.8 466.9 1.2 558.3 Net book value 95.3 56.7 620.8 85.4 858.2 Year ended 2 April 2016 Opening net book value 95.3 56.7 620.8 85.4 858.2 Additions 6.2 92.9 93.9 193.0 Transfers 91.2 91.2 Asset impairments 19.1 32.5 22.1 73.7 Asset write-off s 11.9 14.5 26.4 Amortisation charge 5.3 143.4 148.7 Exchange diff erence 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.4 Closing net book value 82.7 18.7 627.7 73.7 802.8 At 2 April 2016 Cost or valuation 136.2 112.3 1,272.0 89.4 1,609.9 Accumulated amortisation, impairments and write-off s 53.5 93.6 644.3 15.7 807.1 Net book value 82.7 18.7 627.7 73.7 802.8 Goodwill and inde nite life intangibles relate to the following groups of cash generating units CGUs : M&S Mode Blue Harbour Total inde nite life inde nite life 1 per una Czech Group India UK Hungary goodwill intangible intangible m m m m m m m m Net book value at 28 March 2015 69.5 15.4 7.1 3.3 95.3 32.4 0.1 Additions 6.2 6.2 Exchange diff erence 0.4 0.1 0.3 Asset impairments 15.8 3.3 19.1 32.4 0.1 Net book value at 2 April 2016 69.5 7.0 6.2 82.7 1.
The goodwill created on acquisition of the Lima Bradford S. r. l. joint venture is supported by the UK retail business.
Acquisition in the year On 29 February 2016, Marks and Spencer plc acquired the remaining 50% share in the joint venture, Lima Bradford S. r. l. This company owned an automated distribution centre in Bradford that is used by the Group.
The acquisition resulted in the recognition of 6.2m of goodwill, as a result of the consideration paid exceeding the fair value of the net assets acquired, attributable to the recognition of a deferred tax liability in relation to the property.
On 29 February 2016 the distribution centre was transferred to Marks and Spencer Bradford Limited and on 1 March 2016 Lima Bradford S. r. l. was put into liquidation.
Refer to note 25 for further disclosures regarding this acquisition.
109 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Impairment testing Goodwill is not amortised, but tested annually for impairment with the recoverable amount being determined from value in use calculations.
Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of CGUs which include the combined retail and wholesale businesses for each location.
Brands include the per una brand cost of 80.0m net book value 18.7m.
The per una brand is a fide nite life intangible asset amortised on a straight line basis over a period of 15 years and is only assessed for impairment where such indicators exist.
At the beginning of the year, the Group also held the M&S Mode brand at a cost of 32.4m.
The M&S Mode brand was attributed an inde nite life as it gave the Group the future right to use the M&S brand in certain countries across Europe.
Similar to goodwill, the M&S Mode brand is assessed for impairment annually based on its value in use.
The M&S Mode brand has been assessed for impairment across those European businesses.
The value in use calculations use cash ows based on budgets prepared by management covering a three-year period.
These budgets have regard to historic performance and knowledge of the current market, together with managements views on the future achievable growth and the impact of committed initiatives.
The cash ows which derive from the budgets include ongoing capital expenditure required to maintain the store network.
Cash ows beyond this three-year period are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate to 10 years or perpetuity.
Other than the detailed budgets, the key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the long-term growth rate and the risk adjusted pre-tax discount rate.
The long-term growth rate has been determined with reference to forecast GDP growth for the territories in which these businesses operate.
Management believe this is the most appropriate indicator of long-term growth rates that is available.
The long-term growth rate used is purely for the impairment testing of goodwill and brands under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and does not re ect long-term planning assumptions used by the Group for investment proposals or for any other assessments.
These growth rates do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the Group's retail businesses.
The pre-tax discount rate is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of capital and borrowings, to which speci c market-related premium adjustments are made.
In the period the following impairment charges have been recognised within non-underlying items by the Group.
These have impacted the business's ability to improve pro tability year-on-year.
As a result, the future cash ows of the business are no longer considered able to support the carrying value of the goodwill resulting in a full impairment of the goodwill balance of 15.8m.
This asset was reported within the International segment.
As a result, the future cash ows of the business no longer support the carrying value of the goodwill resulting in a full impairment of the goodwill balance of 3.3m being recognised in the International segment.
The M&S Mode brand was acquired in 2011 giving the Group the right to use the M&S brand in European markets.
As a result a full impairment of 32.4m has been recognised in the year, also within the International segment.
E-SAP is an enterprise management system used solely by the owned businesses in Greece, the Czech Republic and Hungary.
As a result, the cash ows can no longer support the carrying value of the E-SAP system and an impairment charge of 18.7m has been recognised in the year in intangibles with an additional 0.6m in xtures, ttings and equipment.
As part of the ongoing review of the Clothing & Home business, signi cant changes in both the trading strategy and the store ranging strategy were made.
As a result of these changes, two modules within the new supply chain management system will no longer be used and as a result investment in those modules has been written off, resulting in a one-off charge of 23.7m.
The values attributed to the key assumptions are as follows: Long-term growth rate Pre-tax discount rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 % % % % per una 2.0 2.0 8.3 8.6 Czech Group 3.9 1.9 10.5 10.1 India 7.3 6.8 17.2 15.4 UK 1.9 10.5 Hungary 3.2 1.4 16.1 11.0 The M&S Mode brand is tested based on the regions operating in the European business which are covered under the brand rights acquired.
The discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 12.9% to 30.2% last year 9.3% to 27.9%.
Cash ows beyond the three-year period have been extrapolated at long-term growth rates ranging from 0.0% to 3.5% last year 1.0% to 4.0%.
Sensitivity analysis Whilst management believe the assumptions are realistic it is possible that a further impairment would be identi ed for per una, UK or India if any of the above key assumptions were changed signi cantly.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on each of these key assumptions with other variables held constant.
Management have concluded that there are no reasonably possible changes in any key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of goodwill or brands to exceed the value in use.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 110 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Fixtures, Assets in the Land and ttings and course of buildings equipment construction Total m m m m At 29 March 2014 Cost 2,871.7 6,686.8 256.2 9,814.7 Accumulated depreciation, impairments and write-off s 332.0 4,336.8 6.0 4,674.8 Net book value 2,539.7 2,350.0 250.2 5,139.9 Year ended 28 March 2015 Opening net book value 2,539.7 2,350.0 250.2 5,139.9 Additions 19.0 213.0 167.8 399.8 Transfers 14.5 268.4 282.9 Disposals 12.5 0.2 12.7 Asset impairments 13.3 35.4 48.7 Asset write-off s 1.0 6.6 11.4 19.0 Depreciation charge 14.8 385.1 0.2 400.1 Exchange diff erence 16.3 10.0 1.8 28.1 Closing net book value 2,515.3 2,394.1 121.7 5,031.1 At 28 March 2015 Cost 2,855.1 7,066.4 133.3 10,054.8 Accumulated depreciation, impairments and write-off s 339.8 4,672.3 11.6 5,023.7 Net book value 2,515.3 2,394.1 121.7 5,031.1 Year ended 2 April 2016 Opening net book value 2,515.3 2,394.1 121.7 5,031.1 Additions 115.2 204.6 138.3 458.1 Transfers 1.7 186.8 188.5 Disposals 5.0 0.6 5.6 Asset impairments 30.4 24.3 1.9 56.6 Asset write-off s 2.9 2.9 Depreciation charge 13.3 400.8 414.1 Exchange diff erence 11.4 5.9 0.2 17.1 Closing net book value 2,594.9 2,362.8 69.4 5,027.1 At 2 April 2016 Cost 2,981.6 7,476.3 82.9 10,540.8 Accumulated depreciation, impairments and write-off s 386.7 5,113.5 13.5 5,513.7 Net book value 2,594.9 2,362.8 69.4 5,027.1 The net book value above includes land and buildings of 42.6m last year 42.7m and equipment of 0.2m last year 1.1m where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease.
Additions to property, plant and equipment during the year amounting to nil last year nil were nanced by finance leases.
16 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS 2016 2015 m m Non-current Unlisted investments 3.0 3.0 Current Short-term investments 19.1 11.6 1.
Includes 3.6m last year 1.2m of money market deposits held by Marks and Spencer plc in an escrow account.
Non-current unlisted investments are carried as available-for-sale assets.
Other financial assets are measured at fair value with changes in their value taken to the income statement.
111 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2016 2015 m m Non-current Other receivables 12.9 56.8 Prepayments and accrued income 221.8 226.5 234.7 283.3 Current Trade receivables 116.5 128.6 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 0.7 4.9 Trade receivables net 115.8 123.7 Other receivables 50.4 53.3 Prepayments and accrued income 154.9 144.8 321.1 321.8 Trade and other receivables that were past due but not impaired amounted to 19.6m last year 18.5m and are mainly sterling denominated.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Included in prepayments and accrued income is 19.4m last year 13.5m of accrued supplier income relating to rebates which have been earned but not yet invoiced.
Supplier income that has been invoiced but not yet settled against future trade creditor balances is included within trade creditors where there is a right to off set.
The remaining amount is immaterial.
The impact on inventory is immaterial as these rebates relate to food stock which has been sold through by the year end.
18 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents are 247.6m last year 205.9m.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
The eff ective interest rate on short-term bank deposits is 0.51% last year 0.48%.
These deposits have an average maturity of 48 days last year 42 days.
Bank loans and overdrafts include a 5.0m last year 5.0m loan from the Hedge End Park Limited joint venture see note 29.
These notes are issued under Marks and Spencer plcs 3bn European medium-term note programme and all pay interest annually.
Interest on these bonds is payable semi-annually.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 112 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20 BORROWINGS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTINUED Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as shown in the table on the following page.
It is the Groups policy to lease certain properties and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term for equipment is five years last year six years and 123 years last year 124 years for property.
Interest rates are xed at the contract rate.
All leases are on a xed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent payments.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors charges over the leased assets.
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Treasury policy The Group operates a centralised treasury function to manage the Groups funding requirements and financial risks in line with the Board approved treasury policies and procedures, and their delegated authorities.
The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group treasury function also enters into derivative transactions, principally interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The purpose of these transactions is to manage the interest rate and foreign currency risks arising from the Groups operations and nancing.
It remains the Groups policy not to hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes, except where financial constraints necessitate the need to liquidate any outstanding investments.
The treasury function is managed as a cost centre and does not engage in speculative trading.
Financial risk management The principal financial risks faced by the Group are liquidity and funding, interest rate, foreign currency and counterparty risks.
The policies and strategies for managing these risks are summarised on the following pages: a Liquidity & funding risk The risk that the Group could be unable to settle or meet its obligations at a reasonable price as they fall due: The Groups funding strategy ensures a mix of funding sources off ering suffi cient headroom, maturity and exibility and cost eff ectiveness to match the requirements of the Group.
Marks and Spencer plc is nanced by a combination of retained pro ts, bank borrowings, medium-term notes and committed syndicated bank facilities.
Operating subsidiaries are nanced by a combination of retained pro ts, bank borrowings and intercompany loans.
During the financial year, the Group renegotiated its committed syndicated bank revolving credit facility.
The new facility of 1.1bn is set to mature on 15 April 2021.
This facility contains only one financial covenant being the ratio of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rents payable: to interest plus rents payable.
The covenant is measured semi-annually.
The Group also has a number of undrawn uncommitted facilities available to it.
At year end, these amounted to 100m last year 100m, all of which are due to be reviewed within a year.
At the balance sheet date a sterling equivalent of 205m last year 225m was drawn under the committed facilities and 30m last year nil was drawn under the uncommitted facilities.
In addition to the existing borrowings, the Group has a Euro Medium Term note programme of 3bn, of which 1.1bn last year 1.1bn was in issuance as at the balance sheet date.
Derivative assets and derivative liabilities amounts represent the fair value as at the balance sheet date of the foreign exchange forward contracts and the forecast interest payments on the swap contracts together with the final exchange of notional at the end of the contracts.
Such cash ows were translated into GBP using spot rates as of balance sheet date for the cross currency interest rate swaps.
The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 0.4 0.5 Later than one year and not later than five years 1.6 1.0 Later than five years 46.6 47.1 Total 48.6 48.6 b Counterparty risk Counterparty risk exists where the Group can suff er financial loss through default or non-performance by financial institutions with whom it transacts.
Exposures are managed in accordance with the Group treasury policy which limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
The minimum long-term rating for all counterparties is long-term Standard & Poor's AMoodys A3 BBB for committed lending banks.
In the event of a rating by one agency being diff erent to the other, reference will be made to Fitch to determine the casting vote of the rating group.
In the absence of a Fitch rating the lower rating will prevail.
Limits are reviewed regularly by senior management.
The credit risk of these financial instruments is estimated as the fair value of the assets resulting from the contracts.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 114 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial risk management continued b Counterparty risk continued The table below analyses the Groups short-term investments and derivative assets by credit exposure excluding bank balances, store cash and cash in transit: Credit rating of counterparty AAAm AAA AA AAA A ABBB Total m m m m m m m m m 1 Short-term investments 3.5 39.9 57.4 100.8 2 Derivative assets 21.5 21.8 52.1 46.9 142.3 At 28 March 2015 25.0 61.7 109.5 46.9 243.1 AAAm AAA AA AAA A ABBB Total m m m m m m m m m 1 Short-term investments 25.1 60.6 63.5149.2 2 Derivative assets 42.6 33.3 23.4 18.2 117.5 At 2 April 2016 67.7 93.9 86.9 18.2 266.7 1.
Includes cash on deposit and money market funds held by Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership, Marks and Spencer plc and Marks & Spencer General Insurance.
Excludes cash at hand and in transit 98.4m last year 105.1m.
Excludes the embedded derivative within the lease host contract.
Standard & Poor's equivalent rating shown as reference to the majority credit rating of the counterparty from either Standard & Poor's, Moody's or Fitch where applicable.
The Group has very low retail credit risk due to transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date was as follows: trade receivables 114m last year 129m, other receivables 63m last year 110m, cash and cash equivalents 248m last year 206m and derivatives 146m last year 194m.
c Foreign currency risk Transactional foreign currency exposures arise from both the export of goods from the UK to overseas subsidiaries, and from the import of materials and goods directly sourced from overseas suppliers.
Group treasury hedges these exposures principally using forward foreign exchange contracts progressively covering up to 100% out to 18 months.
Where appropriate, hedge cover can be taken out for longer than 18 months, with Board approval.
The Group is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to sterling against movements in US dollar and euro.
As at the balance sheet date the gross notional value in sterling terms of forward foreign exchange sell or buy contracts amounted to 1,640m last year 1,591m with a weighted average maturity date of five months last year seven months.
The Group designates the foreign exchange forwards in a cash ow hedge against variability in foreign currency cash ows arising from the recognition of inventory and the subsequent settlement of the related trade payable.
Gains and losses in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at 2 April 2016 will be released to the income statement at various dates over the following 15 months last year 16 months from the balance sheet date.
The Group also holds a number of cross currency swaps to re-designate its xed rate US dollar debt to xed rate sterling debt.
These are reported as cash ow hedges.
The Group uses a combination of foreign currency debt and derivatives to hedge balance sheet translation exposures.
As at the balance sheet date nil last year 144m of currency debt and HK$1,245m last year HK$1,398m of derivatives were hedging overseas net assets.
The Group also hedges foreign currency intercompany loans where these exist.
Forward foreign exchange contracts in relation to the hedging of the Groups foreign currency intercompany loans are designated as held for trading with fair value movements being recognised in the income statement.
The corresponding fair value movement of the intercompany loan balance results in an overall nil impact on the income statement.
As at the balance sheet date, the gross notional value of intercompany loan hedges was 289m last year 412m.
After taking into account the hedging derivatives entered into by the Group, the currency and interest rate exposure of the Groups financial liabilities excluding short-term payables and the liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme is set out below: 2016 2015 Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total m m m m m m Currency Sterling 1,343.7 716.7 2,060.4 1,315.4 568.2 1,883.6 Euro 6.2 0.8 7.0 5.8 105.6 111.4 Other 0.1 4.7 4.8 30.3 30.3 1,350.0 722.2 2,072.2 1,321.2 704.1 2,025.3 The oating rate sterling and euro borrowings are linked to interest rates related to LIBOR.
These rates are for periods between one and six months.
As at the balance sheet date and excluding finance leases, the xed rate sterling borrowings are at an average rate of 5.3% last year 5.3% and the weighted average time for which the rate is xed is seven years last year eight years.
115 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial risk management continued d Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk in relation to sterling, US dollar and euro variable rate financial assets and liabilities.
The Groups policy is to use derivative contracts where necessary to maintain a mix of xed and oating rate borrowings to manage this risk.
The structure and maturity of these derivatives correspond to the underlying borrowings and are accounted for as fair value or cash ow hedges as appropriate.
At the balance sheet date, xed rate borrowings amounted to 1,349.9m last year 1,321.1m representing the public bond issues and finance leases, amounting to 65% last year 66% of the Groups gross borrowings.
The eff ective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2016 2015 % % Committed and uncommitted borrowings 1.0 0.9 Medium term notes 5.3 5.3 Finance leases 4.1 4.1 Derivative financial instruments 2016 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 69.7 26.7 114.8 7.2 held for trading 1.6 1.8 3.1 0.4 net investment hedges 0.8 0.1 72.1 28.5 117.9 7.7 Non-current Cross currency swaps cash ow hedges 27.3 6.3 19.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 5.4 0.2 7.3 0.1 Interest rate swaps fair value hedge 41.3 38.5 Embedded derivative see notes 5 and 25 23.7 74.0 0.2 75.8 20.0 The Group holds a number of interest rate swaps to re-designate its sterling xed debt to oating debt.
These are reported as fair value hedges.
The ineff ective portion recognised in the pro t or loss that arises from fair value hedges amounts to a loss of 0.2m last year 0.3m gain as the loss on the hedged items was 3.0m last year 33.5m loss and the gain on the hedging instruments was a loss of 2.8m last year 33.8m gain.
Sensitivity analysis The table below illustrates the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of market movements in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to the Groups financial instruments.
The directors consider that a 2% - last year 2% movement in interest and a 20% - last year 20% weakening in sterling against the relevant currency represents a reasonably possible change.
However this analysis is for illustrative purposes only.
The table excludes financial instruments that expose the Group to interest rate and foreign exchange risk where such risk is fully hedged with another financial instrument.
Also excluded are trade receivables and payables as these are either sterling denominated or the foreign exchange risk is hedged.
Interest rates: the impact in the income statement due to changes in interest rates re ects the eff ect on the Groups oating rate debt as at the balance sheet date.
The impact in equity re ects the fair value movement in relation to the Groups transactional foreign exchange cash ow hedges and the net investment hedges at the balance sheet date.
The impact in equity re ects the fair value movement in relation to the Group's cross-currency swaps.
Foreign exchange: the impact from foreign exchange movements re ects the change in the fair value of the Groups transactional foreign exchange cash ow hedges and the net investment hedges at the balance sheet date.
The equity impact shown for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments hedging net investments.
This value is expected to be fully off set by the re-translation of the hedged foreign currency net assets leaving a net equity impact of zero.
2% decrease in 2% increase in 20% weakening in 20% strengthening interest rates interest rates sterling in sterling m m m m At 28 March 2015 Impact on income statement: gain loss 9.2 12.5 Impact on other comprehensive income: loss gain 15.2 8.1 169.8 113.2 At 2 April 2016 Impact on income statement: gain loss 9.2 11.1 Impact on other comprehensive income: loss gain 0.8 1.0 136.0 90.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 116 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Off setting of financial assets and liabilities The following tables set out the financial assets and financial liabilities which are subject to off setting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Amounts which are set off against financial assets and liabilities in the Groups balance sheet are set out below.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, amounts not off set in the Statement of Financial Position but which could be off set under certain circumstances are also set out.
Net financial Related amounts Gross financial assets liabilities not set off in the Gross financial liabilities assets per statement of statement of assets liabilities set off financial position financial position Net m m m m m At 2 April 2016 Trade and other receivables 31.6 29.5 2.1 2.1 Derivative financial assets 146.1 146.1 28.7 117.4 Cash and cash equivalents 39.3 39.3 217.0 68.8 148.2 28.7 119.5 Trade and other payables 259.3 29.5 229.8 229.8 Derivative financial liabilities 28.7 28.7 28.7 Bank loans and overdrafts 90.8 39.3 51.5 51.5 378.8 68.8 310.0 28.7 281.3 Net financial Related amounts Gross financial assets liabilities not set off in the Gross financial liabilities assets per statement of statement of assets liabilities set off financial position financial position Net m m m m m At 28 March 2015 Trade and other receivables 37.0 37.0 Derivative financial assets 170.0 170.0 27.7 142.3 Cash and cash equivalents 45.0 42.1 2.9 2.9 252.0 79.1 172.9 27.7 145.2 Trade and other payables 295.0 37.0 258.0 258.0 Derivative financial liabilities 27.7 27.7 27.7 Bank loans and overdrafts 60.3 42.1 18.2 18.2 383.0 79.1 303.9 27.7 276.2 The gross financial assets and liabilities set off in the Statement of Financial Position primarily relate to cash pooling arrangements with banks.
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for off setting on the Statement of Financial Position but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Fair Value Hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: Level 2: not traded in an active market but the fair values are based on quoted market prices or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
The Groups Level 2 financial instruments include interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives.
Fair value is calculated using discounted cash ow methodology, future cash ows are estimated based on forward exchange rates and interest rates from observable market curves and contract rates, discounted at a rate that re ects the credit risk of the various counterparties for those with a long maturity: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a signi cant eff ect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
At 28 March 2015 the fair value of the embedded derivative was calculated using an option valuation model based on the present value of a 35 year lease with annual lease payments increasing by Retail Price Index RPI, capped and oored at 1.5% and 2.5% respectively and then discounted back to the valuation date.
The valuation was sensitive to changes in RPI.
As a result of the acquisition of Lima Bradford S. r. l. in the period, the host contract that contained the embedded derivative is now held between Group companies.
As such, the Group no longer holds any third party Level 3 assets or liabilities.
117 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Fair Value Hierarchy continued At the end of the reporting period, the Group held the following financial instruments at fair value: 2016 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss Trading derivatives 1.4 1.4 3.1 3.1 Derivatives used for hedging 144.7 144.7 166.9 166.9 Embedded derivatives see note 5 23.7 23.7 Short-term investments 19.1 19.1 11.6 11.6 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss Trading derivatives 1.8 1.8 0.4 0.4 Derivatives used for hedging 26.9 26.9 27.3 27.3 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements.
In addition to the above, the Group has 3.0m last year 3.0m in unlisted equity securities measured at cost.
The following table represents the changes in Level 3 instruments: 2016 2015 m m Opening balance 23.7 22.4 Fair value loss gain recognised in the income statement 2.0 1.3 Derecognition 21.7 Closing balance 23.7 During the year the Group purchased Lima Bradford S. r. l. This resulted in the derecognition of the embedded derivative as the host lease contract is now between subsidiaries of the Group see note 25.
The gains recognised in the income statement relate to the valuation of the embedded derivative in a lease contract up until the acquisition date.
The fair value movement of the embedded derivative of 2.0m loss last year 1.3m gain and subsequent derecognition of the asset 21.7m is treated as an adjustment to reported pro t see note 5.
Fair value of financial instruments With the exception of the Groups xed rate bond debt and the Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme, there were no material diff erences between the carrying value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values as at the balance sheet date.
The carrying value of the Groups xed rate bond debt Level 1 equivalent was 1,726.4m last year 1,697.7m, the fair value of this debt was 1,868.3m last year 1,883.6m.
The carrying value of the Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme Level 3 equivalent is 455.7m last year 512.9m and the fair value of this liability is 445.3m last year 501.3m.
Capital policy The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide optimal returns for shareholders and to maintain an effi cient capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In doing so the Groups strategy is to maintain a capital structure commensurate with an investment grade credit rating and to retain appropriate levels of liquidity headroom to ensure financial stability and exibility.
To achieve this strategy the Group regularly monitors key credit metrics such as the gearing ratio, cash ow to net debt see note 28 and xed charge cover to maintain this position.
In addition, the Group ensures a combination of appropriate committed short-term liquidity headroom with a diverse and balanced long-term debt maturity pro le.
As at the balance sheet date the Groups average debt maturity pro le was seven years last year eight years.
During the year the Group maintained an investment grade credit rating of Baa3 stable with Moodys and BBBstable with Standard & Poors.
In order to maintain or realign the capital structure, the Group may adjust the number of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 118 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 PROVISIONS Property Restructuring Other 2016 2015 m m m m m At 28 March 2015 42.9 27.9 7.5 78.3 76.2 Provided in the year 29.0 7.4 3.6 40.0 33.7 Released in the year 9.9 15.6 6.0 31.5 19.3 Utilised during the year 10.3 10.0 1.3 21.6 32.8 Exchange diff erences 0.3 0.1 0.4 2.0 Discount rate unwind 0.4 0.4 0.3 Reclassi cation from trade and other payables 22.2 At 2 April 2016 52.4 9.8 3.8 66.0 78.3 Analysed as: Current 14.0 46.2 Non-current 52.0 32.1 Property provisions relate to onerous lease contracts and dilapidations primarily arising as a result of the closure of stores in the UK and Western Europe.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the period to the end of each speci c lease.
Restructuring provisions relate to the estimated costs of several strategic programmes, the current restructure of the logistics network and the closure of the Balkans operations see note 5.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within five years.
23 DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is provided under the balance sheet liability method using the tax rate at which the balances are expected to unwind of 20%, 19% and 18% as applicable last year 20% for UK diff erences and local tax rates for overseas diff erences.
Details of the changes to the UK corporation tax rate and the impact on the Group are described in note 7.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after off setting balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 Income Taxes during the year are shown below: Deferred tax assets liabilities : Land and Capital Other buildings allowances in Pension short-term temporary excess of temporary temporary Total UK Overseas diff erences depreciation diff erences diff erences deferred tax deferred tax Total m m m m m m m At 30 March 2014 49.3 99.9 97.3 14.9 231.6 11.0 242.6 Credited charged to income statement 2.3 6.1 2.3 4.3 10.4 0.4 10.0 Charged credited to equity other comprehensive income 55.2 13.7 68.9 7.4 61.5 At 28 March 2015 47.0 106.0 154.8 3.1 310.9 3.2 314.1 At 29 March 2015 47.0 106.0 154.8 3.1 310.9 3.2 314.1 Credited charged to the income statement 6.4 25.9 0.7 3.0 36.0 2.5 33.5 Charged credited to equity other comprehensive income 51.4 1.8 53.2 2.4 50.8 Other balance sheet movement 6.2 6.2 6.2 At 2 April 2016 46.8 80.1 205.5 1.9 334.3 3.3 337.6 Other short-term temporary diff erences relate mainly to employee share options and financial instruments.
Other balance sheet movements, categorised as land and building temporary diff erences, relate to recognition of a deferred tax liability on the acquisition of the remaining 50% stake in the Lima Bradford S. r. l joint venture.
The deferred tax liability on land and buildings temporary diff erences is reduced by the bene t of capital losses with a tax value of 49.9m last year 48.4m.
Due to uncertainty over their future use, no bene t has been recognised in respect of unexpired trading losses carried forward in overseas jurisdictions with a tax value of 22.3m last year 43.5m.
No deferred tax is recognised in respect of undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures unless a material liability is expected to arise on distribution of these earnings under applicable tax legislation.
There is a potential tax liability in respect of undistributed earnings of 5.4m last year 4.4m however this has not been recognised on the basis the distribution can be controlled by the Group.
119 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 ORDINARY SHARE CAPITAL 2016 2015 Shares m Shares m Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each At start of year 1,647,814,746 412.01,632,247,974 408.1 Shares issued on exercise of share options 6,797,209 1.7 15,566,772 3.9 Shares cancelled through share buyback 31,647,148 7.9 At end of year 1,622,964,807 405.81,647,814,746 412.0 Issue of new shares 6,797,209 last year 15,567,772 ordinary shares having a nominal value of 1.7m last year 3.9m were allotted during the year under the terms of the Companys schemes which are described in note 13.
The aggregate consideration received was 20.6m last year 40.8m.
Share buyback 31,647,148 last year nil ordinary shares having a nominal value of 7.9m last year nil were bought back and subsequently cancelled during the year in accordance with the authority granted by shareholders in the Annual General Meeting in July 2015.
The aggregate consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, was 150.7m last year nil.
25 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS On 29 February 2016, Marks and Spencer plc purchased the remaining 50% share in the joint venture Lima Bradford S. r. l. This company owned an automated distribution centre in Bradford used by the Group.
The distribution centre was transferred to another group company on the same day and on 1 March 2016 Lima Bradford S. r. l. was put into liquidation.
This purchase has been accounted for as a stepped acquisition under IFRS 3 'Business Combinations. '
The deemed disposal of the original 50% share of the joint venture resulted in the recognition of a 27.1m gain in the period, which has been recognised as a non-underlying credit in the consolidated income statement as disclosed in note 5.
This gain arose as a result of the requirement to fair value the initial 50% share held by Marks and Spencer plc.
A summary of how the gain arose is detailed below: 2016 m Fair value of previously owned 50% interest 56.2 Repayment of intercompany loan 24.0 Deemed proceeds received by Marks and Spencer plc for the existing 50% interest 32.2 Carrying value of the investment in the joint venture 5.1 Gain arising on acquisition 27.1 The acquisition resulted in the recognition of goodwill, as shown below: 2016 m Property, plant and equipment 112.6 Other net liabilities 62.6 Total identi able assets 50.0 Cash paid 56.2 Goodwill arising on acquisition 6.2 This acquisition resulted in the recognition of 6.2m of goodwill, as a result of the consideration paid exceeding the fair value of the net assets acquired, attributable to the recognition of a deferred tax liability in relation to the property.
The goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The purchase of this entity resulted in the distribution centre being fully owned by the Group.
Therefore the embedded derivative previously recognised by the Group in relation to the lease agreement for the distribution centre has been eliminated.
The derecognition of this embedded derivative resulted in the recognition of a 21.7m loss in the consolidated income statement.
This has been recognised as a non-underlying item, as disclosed in notes 5 and 21.
Capital commitments 2016 2015 m m Commitments in respect of properties in the course of construction 129.2 102.9 Software capital commitments 17.1 25.5 146.3 128.4 B.
Other material contracts In the event of a material change in the trading arrangements with certain warehouse operators, the Group has a commitment to purchase property, plant and equipment which is currently owned and operated by the warehouse operators on the Groups behalf at values ranging from historical net book value to market value.
See note 12 for details on the partnership arrangement with the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 120 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS CONTINUED C. Commitments under operating leases The Group leases various stores, offi ces, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2016 2015 m m Total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within one year 311.3 291.6 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,108.4 1,074.1 Later than five years and not later than ten years 1,099.4 1,091.0 Later than ten years and not later than 15 years 542.8 549.3 Later than 15 years and not later than 20 years 351.9 348.8 Later than 20 years and not later than 25 years 225.8 242.2 Later than 25 years 970.3 1,074.3 Total 4,609.9 4,671.3 The total non-cancellable future sublease payments to be received are 36.1m last year 41.2m.
27 ANALYSIS OF CASH FLOWS GIVEN IN THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Cash ows from operating activities 2016 2015 m m Pro t on ordinary activities after taxation 404.4 481.7 Income tax expense 84.4 118.3 Finance costs 116.4 116.8 Finance income 21.1 15.5 Operating pro t 584.1 701.3 Increase decrease in inventories 22.5 45.7 Decrease increase in receivables 3.3 13.0 Increase in payables 32.4 87.6 Non-underlying operating cash out ows in ows 12.9 28.6 Depreciation, amortisation and underlying asset impairments and write-off s 576.8 550.1 Share-based payments 16.0 1.1 Pension costs charged against operating pro t 102.0 85.4 Cash contributions to pension schemes 118.4 143.0 Non-underlying non-cash items 50.3 53.7 Non-underlying operating pro t items 200.8 61.2 Cash generated from operations 1,311.3 1,349.1 28 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT A. Reconciliation of movement in net debt Exchange and At other non-cash At 29 March 2015 Cash ow movements 2 April 2016 m m m m Net cash Bank loans, overdrafts and syndicated bank facility see note 20 279.0 16.7 1.6 297.3 Less: amounts treated as nancing see below 260.9 16.8 1.6 245.7 18.1 33.5 51.6 Cash and cash equivalents see note 18 205.9 38.0 3.7 247.6 Net cash per statement of cash ows 187.8 4.5 3.7 196.0 Current financial assets see note 16 11.6 7.2 0.3 19.1 Debt nancing Bank loans, and overdrafts treated as nancing see above 260.9 16.8 1.6 245.7 Medium-term notes see note 20 1,611.8 2.0 1,613.8 Finance lease liabilities see note 20 48.6 2.4 2.4 48.6 Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme see note 12 501.3 56.0 445.3 Debt nancing 2,422.6 75.2 6.0 2,353.4 Net debt 2,223.2 86.9 2.0 2,138.3 121 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT CONTINUED B. Reconciliation of net debt to statement of financial position 2016 2015 m m Statement of financial position and related notes Cash and cash equivalents see note 18 247.6 205.9 Current financial assets see note 16 19.1 11.6 Bank loans and overdrafts see note 20 297.3 279.0 Medium-term notes net of hedging derivatives 1,656.1 1,652.0 Finance lease liabilities see note 20 48.6 48.6 Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme see notes 12 and 21 455.7 512.9 2,191.0 2,275.0 Interest payable included within related borrowing and the partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme 52.7 51.8 Total net debt 2,138.3 2,223.2 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS A.
Subsidiaries Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
Hedge End joint venture A loan of 5.0m was received from the joint venture on 9 October 2002.
It is repayable on five business days notice and was renewed on 1 January 2015.
Interest was charged on the loan at 2.0% until 31 December 2009 and 0.5% thereafter.
C. Lima Bradford joint venture A loan facility was provided to the joint venture on 11 August 2008, on which interest was charged at 2.7% above 3-month LIBOR.
On 29 February 2016, Marks and Spencer plc purchased the remaining 50% share in the joint venture Lima Bradford S. r. l. At this date 24.0m was drawn down on the loan facility and this was fully repaid on acquisition.
In addition, the Group had entered into a rental agreement with the joint venture and 4.5m last year 4.9m of rental charges were incurred up to the date of acquisition.
D. Marks & Spencer Pension Scheme Details of other transactions and balances held with the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme are set out in notes 11 and 12.
E. Key management compensation 2016 2015 m m Salaries and short-term bene ts 7.5 7.3 Share-based payments 0.3 0.3 Total 7.8 7.6 Key management comprises Board directors only.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the Remuneration Report.
During the year, key management have purchased goods at the Groups usual prices less a 20% discount.
This discount is available to all staff employed directly by the Group in the UK.
F. Other related party transactions Supplier transactions occurred during the year between the Group and a company controlled by Martha Lane Foxs partner.
Martha served as a non-executive director of the Group up to 2 April 2016.
These transactions amounted to 2.6m during the year last year 2.5m with an outstanding trade payable of 0.2m at 2 April 2016 last year 0.2m.
30 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On 25 May 2016 the directors announced proposals for a signi cant base rate increase for Quali ed Customer Assistants to 8.50 per hour outside London and 9.65 in Greater London, as well as pay rises for Section Coordinators and Section Managers, with eff ect from April 2017.
The directors also announced proposals for a fairer, simpler and more consistent approach to pay and premiums.
In addition, also eff ective from April 2017, the directors are proposing to make changes to the UK fide ned bene t DB pension scheme, which has been closed to new members since 2002, to close it to future accrual.
We would enrol current fide ned bene t members in the fide ned contribution savings plan from April 2017.
This has had no impact on the results for the year ended 2 April 2016.
These proposals are subject to consultation and the potential non-underlying charges for both the pay and pension changes for year ending 1 April 2017 could be in the range of c100m to 150m.
This non-underlying charge is largely driven by the DB pension changes because when current active members become deferred members, the annual increase in their pensionable salary is linked to CPI as opposed to being capped at 1%.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
