Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 October 2016 13 Equity share capital 2016 2015 Number Value Number Value Allotted, called up and fully paid m m m m Ordinary shares of 7.375p each 602.8 44.4 602.8 44.4 14 Reserves The share premium account comprises amounts in excess of nominal value received for the issue of shares less any transaction costs.
When freehold and leasehold properties are revalued any gains and losses are recognised in the revaluation reserve, except to the extent that a revaluation gain reverses a revaluation loss previously recognised in profit or loss or a revaluation loss exceeds the accumulated revaluation gains recognised in the revaluation reserve: such gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss.
The associated deferred tax on revaluations is also recognised in the revaluation reserve.
Amounts representing the equivalent depreciation are transferred to profit and loss reserves annually and the full amount is transferred on disposal of the associated property.
The capital redemption reserve arose on share buybacks.
Details of own shares are provided in note 28 to the Group financial statements.
15 Guarantees and contingent liabilities The Company has entered into a Deed of Guarantee with Marstons Trading Limited Trading and the Trustees of the Marstons PLC Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme whereby it guarantees to the Trustees the ongoing obligations of Trading to contribute to the Scheme and the obligations of Trading to contribute to the Scheme in the event of a debt becoming due under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995 on the occurrence of either Trading entering liquidation or the Scheme winding up.
The Company has guaranteed the obligations of Trading under its banking facilities and the obligations of Marstons Estates Limited under various property leases.
16 Reconciliations on adoption of FRS 102 Reconciliations and descriptions of the effect of the transition to FRS 102 on: i equity at the date of transition to FRS 102: ii equity at the end of the comparative period: and iii profit for the comparative period reported under previous UK GAAP are given below.
3 October 5 October 2015 2014 Reconciliation of equity m m Equity as reported under previous UK GAAP 1,021.0 955.4 Adjustments arising from transition to FRS 102: Assets held for sale Deferred tax 21.5 15.6 Equity reported under FRS 102 999.5 939.8 2015 Reconciliation of profit m Profit as reported under previous UK GAAP 54.8 Adjustments arising from transition to FRS 102: Assets held for sale 4.0 Deferred tax 2.2 Profit reported under FRS 102 61.0 Assets held for sale When following previous UK GAAP the Company had the policy of categorising an asset typically a property as held for sale when its value was to be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
Assets held for sale were valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell, and were no longer depreciated.
When an asset classed as held for sale was impaired that impairment was recognised in the profit and loss account rather than the revaluation reserve.
Under FRS 102 there is no categorisation of assets as held for sale and so upon transition to FRS 102 all assets that were classed as held for sale have been reclassified as tangible fixed assets.
The carrying value has been reduced by any depreciation not yet charged and the revaluation reserve balances in respect of these assets have been adjusted appropriately.
Deferred tax Under previous UK GAAP the Company was not required to provide for deferred taxation on revaluations and other timing differences between the accounts carrying value and tax base cost of properties, such as impairments, rollover relief and indexation allowance, unless the Company had entered into a binding sale agreement and recognised the expected gain or loss.
Under FRS 102, deferred tax is provided on the temporary differences arising from these items.
