Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Training and development Diversity policy As part of the 2016 Board evaluation, the Chairman conducted individual The Board, through the CEO, takes overall responsibility for diversity and development reviews with each of the Directors.
Part of the Chairmans equality below Board level.
Catering for the preferences of our many role is to ensure the effectiveness of the Board and, as such, he takes different customers is fundamental to our business and therefore it is responsibility for ensuring that Directors continually update their skills, essential that we consider diversity in our decision-making process.
knowledge and familiarity with the Company.
Where specific training Our Ways of Working are shared throughout Marstons: we recruit the needs are identified these are incorporated into the Boards forward best people, invest in our people and put people first whether thats the agenda and personal development plans.
The Company provides the Marstons team, our customers or our suppliers.
We make sure we do resources to meet development requirements for individual Directors the right thing.
We have a Whistleblowing Policy, the purpose of which as and when required and it will continue to review development is to ensure that our people feel secure when raising any concerns they initiatives for Directors.
During the year, for example, a number of the may have without any adverse effect on their career and development Non-executive Directors attended external technical seminars run by at Marstons.
Further details of Marstons approach to diversity and professional advisers and guidance on the new Market Abuse Regulation succession planning can be found on our website at and other new legislation was provided by the Group Secretary and the www.
Gender diversity An effective Board must be able to constructively challenge proposals on Male strategy and contribute to the ongoing development and implementation Female of strategy.
The Non-executive Directors bring a diverse range of skills 9 47 14,133 from their own external experience to the Board and are encouraged 7,388 13 to further their knowledge of the Group by spending time with the 2 Executive Directors and other senior managers on visits to a range of 34 7 6,745 pubs, customers and brewery outlets.
Non-executive Directors are also encouraged to engage with our people across the business to further Directors Senior managers Total employees enhance their understanding of the business.
Number of employees at 1 October 2016 Induction programmes are tailored for each individual Director when joining the Board.
A comprehensive information pack is compiled to include an explanation of the Groups financing structure, relevant 3.
Accountability statutory and regulatory guidance notes including, for example, the Fair, balanced and understandable assessment UK Corporate Governance Code, the Groups Share Dealing Policy and It is a requirement of the Code that the Board should consider whether guidance on Directors duties, together with internal Group policies, the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and structure charts, Matters Reserved for the Board and Committee understandable.
To support this assessment, comprehensive reviews terms of reference.
An induction programme will include site visits and are undertaken at regular intervals throughout the year end process by meetings with relevant colleagues and advisers.
The preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts The Group Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters.
is coordinated by the Secretariat team with significant input from the All Directors have access to her advice and services.
If necessary, Finance team and support from other contributing colleagues across the Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Companys Group.
Drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts are submitted to the expense in the performance of their duties.
Board meetings prior to publication, to allow sufficient time to review and provide an opportunity for challenge and discussion, ahead of approving Re-election of Directors the final documents.
In addition, the external Auditors review the All Directors offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General consistency between the narrative reporting and financial disclosures.
Meeting AGM unless they are retiring.
Details of each Director serving on the Board at the date of this Report are set out on pages 38 to 39 and Compliance with the exception of Neil Goulden shall be set out to shareholders in the Marstons Risk and Compliance Committee, a supporting committee papers accompanying the re-election resolutions for the AGM.
The Board within our governance framework, monitors all areas of legal and is of the opinion, supported by the Nomination Committee, that each regulatory compliance across the Group.
The Committee meets Director continues to make an effective and valuable contribution and quarterly, and includes representatives from across the business, demonstrates commitment to his or her role.
inorder to consider any emerging areas of legislation or challenges toexisting compliance.
Risks and internal controls The Groups approach to risk management, systems and internal controls is explained as part of the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 21.
Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 47 to 62.
Our Remuneration Committee has reviewed the Remuneration Policy during the year and a revised policy will be subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The report also includes the Annual Report on Remuneration subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
