Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 2.
Effectiveness Independent Audit presented their findings to the Board who then Commitment considered the key points arising: Significant commitments of the Directors held outside of Marstons are disclosed prior to appointment and on an ongoing basis where there The Board noted the work that has been done within the Group on are any changes.
Actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly talent management and diversity to retain and promote talented reviewed.
The Board has authority, under the Articles of Association, individuals and women into senior positions.
It was recognised that to authorise potential conflicts of interest and to impose any limits or this is ongoing and there is more work to do.
All of our Directors are required to allocate sufficient The Board recognises that the hearts and minds of people are time to the Group to discharge their responsibilities effectively and this is critical to the success of the business and that understanding our reviewed by the Chairman as part of the annual evaluation process.
people better will come from spending more time in the business.
Evaluation To encourage and support the achievement of more stretching The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of the ambitious plans requires greater constructive challenge within Board and its Committees is conducted annually and that this process the boardroom.
To be effective the challenge should be supportive, is externally facilitated at least every third year.
This year, Independent structured, rigorous and have purpose.
Audit was appointed to undertake a review of the effectiveness of the Board.
The review was broadly based, focusing on the key drivers of effectiveness and comprised a review of Board and Committee meeting packs, observing a Board meeting and individual meetings with each member of the Board and other senior executives.
The individual meetings considered matters such as the balance and composition of the Board, the extent of independent challenge and oversight provided by the Non-executive Directors, the support that the Board receives, Board information and supporting processes.
It also considered the support provided by the standing Committees of the Board.
2015 Board evaluation Progress Summary of key actions summary recommendations achieved agreed following 2016 review More NED attendance at divisional NEDs attending divisional board meetings, The key actions agreed are as follows: executive meetings.
offering insight and challenge on strategic The Board will host dinners bi-annually with andoperational matters.
Use of informal meetings for NEDs outside the Leadership Group and at such other times the Board timetable.
NEDs have met informally twice during as the purpose dictates.
Extended duration of the Strategy Day.
The Non-executive Directors will The 2016 Strategy Day was extended to allow meet three times per year without the Future presentation and discussion topics more time for presentations and discussion.
on forward agenda include: IT investment, pricing, rooms and lodges, senior Forward agenda updated with suggested The Non-executive Directors will provide management succession plans.
items and presentations undertaken planned.
more constructive and rigorous challenge that will be formally noted in the minutes for More shareholder and other stakeholder Brokers presented at two meetings during regular review and updates.
feedback through presentations from the year.
Future presentations to the Board will have Catherine Glickman and Carolyn Bradley are greater clarity of purpose for all parties.
Designated mentoring, to support focus on providing support and advice to the Group delivery of KPIs.
People Director and Commercial Marketing A more rigorous approach to risk reviews Director, respectively.
will be adopted to ensure the framework reflects the processes and remains relevant and robust.
A list of internal meetings, agendas and forthcoming events will be circulated to the Board to allow Non-executive Directors an opportunity for greater interaction with the business.
Supporting Board papers will be offered electronically as well as in hard copy.
