Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 20 Financial instruments continued Credit risk: Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from credit exposure to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
If customers are independently rated, these ratings are used.
Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, an assessment is made of the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
Individual credit limits are set based on internal or external ratings in accordance with limits set by the Board.
The utilisation of and adherence to credit limits is regularly monitored.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables, other receivables and trade loans has been estimated by management and is based on prior experience and known factors at the balance sheet date after taking into account collateral held in the form of cash deposits and fixtures and fittings.
Receivables are written off against the provision for impairment when management considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of its customers.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable.
Liquidity risk: The Group applies a prudent liquidity risk management policy, which involves maintaining sufficient cash, ensuring the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and having the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury maintains the availability of committed credit lines to ensure that the Group has flexibility in funding.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash flow.
In addition, the Groups liquidity management policy involves maintaining debt financing plans, projecting cash flows and considering the level of liquid assets necessary to meet these, and monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios against internal and external regulatory requirements.
The Groups borrowing covenants are subject to regular review.
The tables below analyse the Groups financial liabilities and non-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
