Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Notes For the 52 weeks ended 1 October 2016 1 Accounting policies Company information Marstons PLC is a public company limited by shares incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the UK.
The registered office is Marstons House, Brewery Road, Wolverhampton, WV1 4JT.
Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Monetary amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified to include the revaluation of freehold and leasehold properties and the holding of certain financial instruments at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
These financial statements for the period ended 1 October 2016 are the first financial statements of Marstons PLC prepared in accordance with FRS 102.
The date of transition to FRS 102 was 5 October 2014.
An explanation of how transition to FRS 102 has affected the reported financial position and financial performance is given in note 16.
The Company is a qualifying entity for the purposes of FRS 102, as it prepares publicly available consolidated financial statements, which are intended to give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group.
The Company has therefore taken advantage of the exemptions from the following disclosure requirements in FRS 102: Section 4 Statement of Financial Position Reconciliation of the opening and closing number of shares: Section 7 Statement of Cash Flows Presentation of a statement of cash flows and related notes and disclosures: Section 11 Basic Financial Instruments Carrying amounts, interest income expense and net gains losses for each category of financial instrument not measured at fair value through profit or loss, and information that enables users to evaluate the significance of financial instruments: Section 33 Related Party Disclosures Compensation for key management personnel.
These financial statements present information about the Company as an individual entity and not about its group.
As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account has been presented for the Company.
At the time of approving the financial statements, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Turnover and other operating income Turnover represents rent receivable from licensed properties, which is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Other operating income mainly comprises rent receivable from unlicensed properties.
Current and deferred tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the accounts because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting end date.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all timing differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable profits.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the timing difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting end date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to profit or loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Company has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority.
Fixed assets Freehold and leasehold properties are stated at valuation or at cost.
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis to provide for the cost of the assets less their residual value over their useful lives.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to their residual value over 50 years.
Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the life of the lease.
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment are depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 15 years.
Interest costs directly attributable to capital projects are capitalised.
Properties are revalued by qualified valuers at least once in each rolling three year period, on an open market value basis.
Substantially all of the Companys properties have been externally valued in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Red Book.
These valuations are performed directly by reference to observable prices in an active market or recent market transactions on arms length terms.
Internal valuations are performed on the same basis.
110 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 Accounting policies continued When a valuation is below current carrying value, the asset concerned is reviewed for impairment.
Impairment losses are charged to the revaluation reserve to the extent that a previous gain has been recorded, and thereafter to the profit and loss account.
Surpluses on revaluation are recognised in the revaluation reserve, except to the extent they reverse previously charged impairment losses, in which case the reversal is recorded in the profit and loss account.
Disposals of fixed assets Profit loss on disposal of fixed assets represents net sale proceeds less carrying value of the assets.
Any element of the revaluation reserve relating to the fixed assets disposed of is transferred to profit and loss reserves at the date of sale.
Financial instruments The Company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 Basic Financial Instruments and Section 12 Other Financial Instruments Issues of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.
Financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet when the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements, when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Basic financial assets Basic financial assets, which comprise amounts owed by Group undertakings, other debtors and cash and cash equivalents, are initially measured at the transaction price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Other financial assets Derivatives, including interest rate swaps, are not basic financial assets and are accounted for as set out below.
Financial assets, other than those held at fair value through profit and loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting end date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows have been affected.
If an asset is impaired, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
If there is a decrease in the impairment loss arising from an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the impairment is reversed.
The reversal is such that the current carrying amount does not exceed what the carrying amount would have been, had the impairment not previously been recognised.
The impairment reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are settled, or when the Company transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to another entity.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Basic financial liabilities Basic financial liabilities, comprising amounts owed to Group undertakings, other creditors and borrowings, are initially recognised at the transaction price and subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
Other financial liabilities Derivatives, including interest rate swaps, are not basic financial liabilities and are accounted for as set out below.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the Companys contractual obligations expire or are discharged or cancelled.
Derivatives The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge the Groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The Company has not designated any derivative financial instruments as hedging instruments and as such any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset, whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets at the lower of the assets fair value at the date of inception of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The related liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The interest is charged to the profit and loss account so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases, including any lease incentives received, are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
