STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements When asubsidiary is acquired, the fair value of its identifiable assets 1.
General information and basis of preparation and liabilities are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Meggitt PLC is a public limited company listed on the London Stock Allfair value adjustments are recorded with effect from the date of Exchange, domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in acquisition and consequently may result in the restatement of England and Wales with the registered number 432989.
Its registered previously reported financial results.
The accounting policies of office is Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth acquired businesses are changed where necessary to be consistent International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, BH23 6EW.
Meggitt PLC is the parent company of aGroup whose principal When asubsidiary is disposed, the difference between the fair value of activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high consideration received or receivable and the value at whichthe net performance components and sub-systems for aerospace, defence assets of the subsidiary were recorded, immediately prior to disposal, and other specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, is recognised in the income statement within net operating costs.
contingent consideration receivable is measured at fair value at the date of disposal in determining the gain or loss to be recognised.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared Contingent consideration receivable is measured at fair value at each in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards subsequent balance sheet date, with any changes in fair value recorded IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act in the income statement within net operating costs.
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on agoing concern basis and When aforeign subsidiary is disposed, the cumulative exchange under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of differences relating to the retranslation of the net investment in the certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative foreign subsidiary are recognised in the income statement as part of instruments at fair value.
the gain or loss on disposal.
This applies only to exchange differences recorded in equity after 1 January 2004.
Summary of significant accounting policies arising prior to 1 January 2004 remain in equity on disposal as permitted by IFRS 1 First time Adoption of International Financial The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the ReportingStandards.
preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented Transactions between, and balances with, subsidiary companies are unless stated otherwise.
eliminated together with unrealised gains on inter-group transactions.
Unrealised losses are eliminated to the extent the asset transferred is Basis of consolidation not impaired.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with the joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements arrangement.
ofthe Company and all of its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results of its joint venture.
Foreign currencies Asubsidiary is an entity over which the Group has control.
The Group Functional and presentational currency has control over an entity where the Group is exposed to, or has the The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity, and it poundssterling.
Items included in the financial statements of each of has the power over the entity to affect those returns.
The results of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the functional currency subsidiaries acquired are fully consolidated from the date on which oftheprimary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates.
control transfers to the Group.
The results of subsidiaries disposed arefully consolidated up to the date on which control transfers from Transactions and balances the Group.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and A joint venture is a contractual arrangement between the Group and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported at exchange one or more other parties, under which control is shared between the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on parties and the Group and other parties have rights to the net assets of retranslating monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the the arrangement.
A joint venture is accounted for using the equity income statement within net operating costs except where they relate method of accounting whereby the Groups share of the profits and to qualifying net investment hedges in which case exchange losses of the joint venture are recognised in the income statement differences are recognised in hedging and translation reserves within within net operating costs and its share of the net assets and goodwill other comprehensive income.
of the joint venture are recognised as an investment.
Foreign subsidiaries The cost of an acquisition is the fair value of consideration provided, The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at average exchange including the fair value of any contingent consideration, as measured rates for the period.
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are atthe acquisition date.
Contingent consideration payable is measured translated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
at fair value at each subsequent balance sheet date, with any changes Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the results in fair value recorded in the income statement within net operating andopening net assets of foreign subsidiaries are recognised in costs.
Identifiable assets and liabilities of an acquired business hedging and translation reserves within other comprehensive income.
meeting the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised Exchange differences on borrowings designated as net investment at fair value at the date of acquisition.
To the extent the cost of an hedges of foreign subsidiaries are also recognised in hedging and acquisition exceeds the fair value of net assets acquired, the difference translation reserves.
To the extent the fair value of net assets acquired exceeds the cost of an acquisition, the difference is recorded Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition immediately in the income statement within net operating costs.
ofaforeign subsidiary are treated as assets and liabilities of the Costsdirectly attributable to an acquisition are recognised in the subsidiary and are retranslated at exchange rates prevailing at income statement within net operating costs as incurred.
106 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Revenue from services 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
For cost-plus fixed fee contracts, revenue is recognised Segment reporting equal to the costs incurred plus an appropriate proportion of the fee Operating segments are those segments for which results are agreed with the customer.
For other contracts, the stage of completion reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM is typically measured by reference to contractual milestones achieved, to assess performance and make decisions about resources to be number of aircraft flying hours power by the hour contracts or allocated.
The CODM has been identified as the Board see page 56 number of aircraft landings cost per brake landing contracts.
of the Corporate governance report.
The Group has determined that Revenue from funded research and development its segments are Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt Control Revenue is recognised according to the stage of completion of the Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems contract.
The stage of completion is typically measured by reference and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
The principal profit measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
Asegmental analysis of Exceptional operating items underlying operating profit is accordingly provided in the notes to the Items which are significant by virtue of their size or nature, which are financial statements.
considered non-recurring and which are excluded from the underlying Segmental information on assets is provided in the notes to the profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the financial statements in respect of trading assets, which are defined to underlying performance of the Group see note 10 are classified as exclude from total assets, amounts which the CODM does not review at exceptional operating items.
They include, for instance, costs directly asegmental level.
Excluded assets comprise centrally managed attributable to the integration of an acquired business, significant trading assets, goodwill, other intangible assets excluding software site consolidation costs and other significant restructuring costs.
assets, investments, derivative financial instruments, deferred tax Exceptional operating items are included within the appropriate assets, current tax recoverable and cash and cash equivalents.
consolidated income statement category but are highlighted separatelyin the notes to the financial statements.
No segmental information on liabilities is provided in the notes to the financial statements, as no such measure is reviewed by the CODM.
Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses Revenue recognition These items are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the receivable in respect of goods and services provided in the normal Group see note 10.
They include, for instance, gains or losses made course of business to external customers, net of trade discounts, on the disposal or closure of abusiness, adjustments to the fair value returns and sales related taxes.
of contingent consideration payable in respect of an acquired business Sale of goods or receivable in respect of adisposed business and costs directly Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of attributable to the acquisition of abusiness.
Amounts arising on the ownership have transferred to the customer, managerial involvement acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses are included within the and control of the goods is not retained by the Group, the revenue and appropriate consolidated income statement category but are costs associated with the sale can be measured reliably and the highlighted separately in the notes to the financial statements.
collection of related receivables is probable.
In the majority of instances these conditions are met when delivery to the customer Intangible assets takes place.
In aminority of instances bill and hold arrangements Goodwill exist whereby revenue is recorded prior to delivery but only when the Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair customer has accepted title to the goods, the goods are separately value of the Groups share of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities identifiable and available for delivery on terms agreed with the and contingent liabilities assumed.
Goodwill is tested annually for customer and normal credit terms apply.
impairment, and also whenever events or changes in circumstances Contract accounting revenue indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is The Group is usually able to reliably estimate the outcome of acontract carried at cost less amortisation charged prior to 1 January 2004 less at inception and accordingly recognises revenue and cost of sales by accumulated impairment losses.
In the event the subsidiary to which reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Revenue is goodwill relates is disposed, its attributable goodwill is included in the typically measured by applying to total contract revenue, the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
proportion costs incurred for work performed in the period bear to Research and development total estimated contract costs.
Where it is not possible to reliably Research expenditure is recognised as an expense in the income estimate the outcome of acontract, revenue is recognised equal to statement as incurred.
Development costs incurred on projects where costs incurred, provided recovery of such costs is probable.
If total the related expenditure is separately identifiable, measurable and contract costs are forecast to exceed total contract revenue, the management are satisfied as to the ultimate technical and commercial expected loss is recorded immediately in the income statement within viability of the project and that the asset will generate future economic cost of sales.
benefit based on all relevant available information, are recognised as an intangible asset.
Capitalised development costs are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged over the periods expected to benefit, typically up to 15 years, commencing with launch of the product.
Development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalisation are expensed as incurred.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 107 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction or production Programme participation costs of qualifying assets, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets Programme participation costs consist of incentives given to Original until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended Equipment Manufacturers in connection with their selection of the use.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take asubstantial Groups products for installation onto new aircraft where the Group period of time to get ready for their intended use, which would generally has obtained principal supplier status.
These incentives comprise be at least 12 months.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the cash payments and or the supply of initial manufactured parts on income statement as incurred.
afree of charge or deeply discounted basis.
Programme participation costs are recognised as an intangible asset and carried at cost less Taxation accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
For manufactured parts supplied on afree of charge or deeply discounted basis, cost Tax payable is based on taxable profit for the period, calculated using represents the cost of manufacture transferred from inventory less tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
the value of any revenue received or receivable.
Amortisation is Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary charged over the periods expected to benefit from receiving the status differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their of principal supplier, through the sale of replacement parts, typically corresponding book values as recorded in the Groups financial up to 15years.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted earnings of foreign Other intangible assets subsidiaries, except where the Group can control the remittance and it a Intangible assets acquired as part of abusiness combination is probable that the earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable For acquisitions, the Group recognises intangible assets separately future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is from goodwill provided they are separable or arise from contractual probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible or other legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using Intangible assets are initially recognised at fair value, which is tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Intangible assets are subsequently held at cost Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is other comprehensive income or directly in equity depending on where charged on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic the item to which they relate has been recognised.
The nature of intangible assets recognised and their estimated useful lives are as follows: Provision is made for current tax liabilities, when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable an outflow Customer relationships.............................. Up to 25 years of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the Technology.................................................. Up to 25 years amount can be reliably estimated.
The Group typically uses a weighted Trade names and trademarks.................... Up to 25 years average of outcomes assessed as possible to determine the level of Order backlogs............................................ Over period of backlog provision required, unless a single best estimate of the outcome is typically up to 3 years considered to be more appropriate.
Assessments are made at the level Amortisation of intangible assets acquired as part of abusiness of an individual tax uncertainty, unless uncertainties are considered to combination is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by be related, in which case they are grouped together.
Provisions are not the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the discounted given the short period over which they are expected to be Group see note 10. utilised and are included within current tax liabilities.
Any liability relating to interest or penalties on tax liabilities is included in the tax b Software and other intangible assets charge.
Software and purchased licences, trademarks and patents are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment Impairment of non-current non-financial assets losses.
Amortisation is charged on astraight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, typically over periods up to 10 years.
Assets are reviewed for impairment annually and also whenever events Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be ifappropriate.
To the extent the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, the difference is recorded as an expense in the income Property, plant and equipment statement.
The recoverable amount used for impairment testing is the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
For the Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated purpose of impairment testing, assets are generally tested individually depreciation and impairment losses, except for land which is or at a CGU level which represents the lowest level for which there are recorded at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent of expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Where it is not Depreciation is calculated on astraight-line basis over the estimated possible to allocate goodwill on a non-arbitrary basis to individual useful lives of the assets as follows: CGUs, it is allocated to the group of CGUs which represent the lowest Freehold buildings...................................... Up to 50 years level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored by management.
Leasehold property..................................... Over period of lease At each balance sheet date, previously recorded impairment losses, Plant and machinery................................... 3 to 10 years other than any relating to goodwill, are reviewed and if no longer Furnaces...................................................... Up to 20 years required reversed with acorresponding credit to the income Fixtures and fittings.................................... 3 to 10 years statement.
Motor vehicles.............................................. 4 to 5 years Inventories Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted ifappropriate.
When property, plant and equipment is disposed, the Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
difference between sale proceeds, net of related costs, and the Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related carrying value ofthe asset is recognised in the income statement.
production overheads, based on normal operating capacity, and is determined using the first-in first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
108 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being proceeds Inventories continued received less directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items Borrowings are generally subsequently measured at amortised cost at whereappropriate.
each balance sheet date with any transaction costs amortised to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective When asubsidiary is acquired, finished goods are recorded at fair interest method.
Certain borrowings however are designated as fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs of disposal value through profit and loss at inception, where the Group has interest and areasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
Work in rate derivatives in place which have the economic effect of converting progress is also recorded at fair value at acquisition, which is typically fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings.
Such borrowings estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date with any areasonable profit allowance for work not yet completed.
When such movement in fair value recorded in the income statement within net inventory is subsequently disposed post acquisition, the fair value is operating costs.
Movements in fair value are excluded from the charged to the income statement.
The difference between the fair value underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure of the inventory disposed and its actual cost of manufacture is the underlying performance of the Group see note 10. excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group Any related interest accruals are included within borrowings.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least Trade and other receivables 12months after the balance sheet date.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and Provisions subsequently measured at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
An impairment is recognised in the income statement, within net Provision is made for environmental liabilities, onerous contracts, operating costs, when there is objective evidence the Group will not be product warranty claims and other liabilities when the Group has able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the apresent obligation as aresult of past events, it is more likely than receivables.
The impairment recorded is the difference between the notthat an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the carrying value of the receivable and its estimated future cash flows obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted where appropriate.
discounted to present value where the impact is significant, using apre-tax rate.
The discount rate used is based on current market Where the Group recognises a provision, to the extent the outflows of assessments of the time value of money, adjusted to reflect any risks economic benefits required to settle the obligation are recoverable specific to the obligation which have not been reflected in the from an insurer or other third party, an other receivable is recognised.
The impact of the unwinding of discounting Other receivables are discounted to present value where the impact is is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
The discount rate used is based on current market assessments of the time value of money, adjusted to Retirement benefit schemes reflect any risks specific to the receivable which have not been reflected in the undiscounted receivable.
The impact of the unwinding For defined benefit schemes, pension costs and the costs of providing of discounting is recognised in the income statement within finance other post-retirement benefits, principally healthcare, are charged to income.
the income statement in accordance with the advice of qualified independent actuaries.
Cash and cash equivalents Past service credits and costs and curtailment gains and losses are Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held at recognised immediately in the income statement.
Bank overdrafts are disclosed as current liabilities, Retirement benefit obligations represent, for each scheme, the within bank and other borrowings, except where the Group participates difference between the fair value of the schemes assets and the in offset arrangements with certain banks whereby cash and overdraft present value of the schemes defined benefit obligations measured amounts are offset against each other.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit Trade payables method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently determined by discounting the defined benefit obligations using measured at amortised cost.
Trade payables are not interest bearing.
interest rates of high quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and with terms to maturity Leases comparable with the terms of the related defined benefit obligations.
Where the Group has astatutory or contractual minimum funding Leases where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards requirement to make contributions to ascheme in respect of past of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are service and any such contributions are not available to the Group once capitalised at commencement of the lease at the lower of fair value paid either as areduction in future contributions or as arefund during ofthe leased asset and present value of the minimum lease payments.
the life of the scheme or when the scheme liabilities are settled, to Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance which the Group has an unconditional right, an additional liability charges so as to achieve aconstant rate on the finance balance forsuch amounts is recognised.
The corresponding lease obligations, net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
Assets acquired under finance Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in the period in leases are depreciated on astraight-line basis over the shorter of which they arise in other comprehensive income.
theuseful life of the asset or the lease term.
For defined contribution schemes, payments are recognised in the Leases in which asignificant portion of the risks and rewards of income statement when they fall due.
The Group has no further ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement on astraight-line basis over the period of the lease.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 109 If the forecast transaction to which the cash flow hedge relates is 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income Share-based compensation statement immediately.
If the hedging instrument is sold, expires or The Group operates anumber of share-based compensation schemes, no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative which are principally equity-settled.
gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income istransferred to the income statement when the forecast transaction For equity-settled schemes, the fair value of an award is measured at isrecognised in the income statement.
the date of grant and reflects any market-based vesting conditions.
At the date of grant, the Group estimates the number of awards expected Net investment hedges to vest as aresult of non market-based vesting conditions and the fair Hedges of net investments of foreign subsidiaries are accounted value of this estimated number of awards is recognised as an expense for in asimilar way to cash flow hedges.
Changes in fair value in the income statement on astraight-line basis over the period for of the effective portion of any hedge are recognised in other which services are received.
At each balance sheet date, the Group comprehensive income.
Changes in fair value of any ineffective revises its estimate of the number of awards expected to vest as portion are recognised immediately in the income statement aresult of non market-based vesting conditions and adjusts the within net operating costs.
Cumulative gains and losses previously amount recognised cumulatively in the income statement to reflect the recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to revised estimate.
When awards are exercised and the Company issues the income statement if the foreign subsidiary to which they new shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable relate is disposed.
Any such gains or losses are excluded from transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and share premium.
measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
Derivatives not meeting the criteria for hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments and hedging Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income to interest rate risk and foreign currency transactional risk.
Derivative statement within net operating costs.
The Group utilises alarge financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the number of foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate against datethe derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently currency fluctuations.
The Group has determined the additional remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date using values costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements in order determined indirectly from quoted prices that are observable for to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: theasset or liability.
Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
Additionally, the Group utilises cross currency derivatives and treasury lock The method by which any gain or loss arising from remeasurement derivatives as described in note 31 which do not meet the criteria is recognised, depends on whether the instrument is designated as for hedge accounting.
Gains and losses arising from measuring a hedging instrument and if so the nature of the item hedged.
The these derivatives at fair value are excluded from the underlying profit Group recognises an instrument as a hedging instrument by measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying documenting, at inception of the instrument, the relationship between performance of the Group see note 10. the instrument and the hedged item and the objectives and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction.
To be designated as ahedging Share capital instrument, an instrument must also be assessed, at inception and on an ongoing basis, to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly values or cash flows of hedged items.
attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted from the proceeds recorded in equity.
To the extent the maturity of the financial instrument is more than 12 months from the balance sheet date, the fair value is Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by reported asanon-current asset or non-current liability.
All other an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan.
derivative financial instruments are reported as current assets or Consideration paid for own shares, including any incremental directly currentliabilities.
attributable costs, is recorded as adeduction from retained earnings.
Fair value hedges Dividends Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, are recognised in the Interim dividends are recognised as liabilities when they are approved income statement within net operating costs together with changes in by the Board.
Final dividends are recognised as liabilities when they fair value of the hedged item.
Any difference between the movement in are approved by the shareholders.
fair value of the derivative and the hedged item is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure Share buyback the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
The Group The total consideration payable for shares purchased is deducted currently only applies fair value hedge accounting to the hedging from retained earnings.
The shares when purchased are generally offixed interest rate risk on bank and other borrowings.
cancelled, unless they are to be used to satisfy obligations under Cash flow hedges employee share plans.
The nominal value of cancelled shares is Changes in fair value of the effective portion of derivative financial transferred from share capital to aseparate capital redemption instruments, that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, reserve.
Where the Group has entered into an irrevocable nonareinitially recognised in other comprehensive income.
Changes discretionary contract to purchase for cancellation shares on its infairvalue of any ineffective portion are recognised immediately behalf during aclose period, the obligation to purchase shares is intheincome statement within net operating costs.
recognised in full at inception of the contract, even when the obligation is conditional on the share price.
The obligation is remeasured at each To the extent changes in fair value are recognised in other balance sheet date with changes recognised in the income statement.
comprehensive income, they are recycled to the income statement Any gain or loss arising from the remeasurement of the obligation inthe periods in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board The Group currently only applies cash flow hedge accounting to the to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group hedging of floating interest rate risk on bank and other borrowings.
110 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Adoption of new and revised accounting standards During the year, no new accounting standards became effective which had asignificant impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Recent accounting developments A number of new standards and amendments and revisions to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups future accounting periods.
They have not been early adopted in these consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to have asignificant impact on the consolidated financial statements when they are adopted except as disclosed below: IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
The Group is continuing to assess the full impact of IFRS 9 which becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The main change is expected to relate to the way in which movements in the fair value of the Groups fixed rate borrowings, attributable to changes in the Groups own credit risk, are accounted for.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers.
This standard establishes principles for reporting the nature, amount and timing of revenue arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
The Group is continuing to assess the full impact of IFRS 15.
The principal areas of the Groups existing accounting that are currently expected to be affected include: P rogramme participation costs.
It is likely that the cost of free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts but generally not cash programme payments will be expensed as incurred under IFRS 15, rather than being recognised as an intangible asset and amortised over their useful lives.
Had the Group adopted this policy for 2016, its profit before tax and net assets after taking account of related deferred tax balances would be lower by 23.4 million and 195.1 million respectively.
R evenue from sale of goods 2016 revenue: 1,798.8 million.
The timing of revenue recognised on the substantial majority of such contracts is not expected to be significantly affected by IFRS 15 with revenue continuing to be recognised as goods are delivered to the customer.
A minority of contracts will require changes to the timing of recognition of revenue to reflect IFRS 15 guidance on areas such as the accounting for customer price changes and whether multiple deliveries and services provided to a customer should be accounted for individually or aggregated.
C ontract accounting revenue 2016 revenue: 59.8 million.
It is likely that revenue on most contracts for which revenue is currently recognised using contract accounting will continue to be accounted for as performance occurs, although the method by which the stage of completion is measured may change on certain contracts.
A small number of contracts may no longer qualify to be contract accounted and revenue will instead be deferred until completion of the contract.
R evenue from power by the hour and cost per brake landing type contracts 2016 revenue: 39.0 million.
An element of revenue on these contracts is likely to no longer be recognised by reference to the number of aircraft flying hours or aircraft landings but when maintenance events are carried out.
This will lead to revenue being recognised in different accounting periods to those in which it is currently recognised.
Across all cost per brake landing contracts 2016 revenue: 29.1 million, the impact in any one period is likely however, to be mitigated by virtue of the large number of aircraft covered by such contracts and the relatively short period between maintenance events.
R evenue from other services 2016 revenue: 56.0 million.
No significant changes are currently expected.
R evenue from funded research and development contracts 2016 revenue: 38.8 million.
Revenue from certain contracts is likely to no longer be recognised as contractually agreed milestones are achieved, but either as costs are incurred thus accelerating the recognition of revenue or when the contract is completed thus delaying the recognition of revenue.
T he adoption of the standard may also require certain reclassifications between revenue, cost of sales and net operating costs, but which have no overall impact on operating profit.
The standard becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group is continuing to assess the full impact of IFRS 16 which becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The main change is expected to relate to the recognition on the Groups balance sheet of assets and liabilities relating to leases which are currently being accounted for as operating leases.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group has a future commitment in respect of operating leases which expire more than 12 months from the balance sheet date of 110.2 million, mainly in respect of property leases, and for which the present value is likely to be recognised on the balance sheet at transition.
This standard is subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Subject to such endorsement, it is the Groups current intention to early adopt this standard in its accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations expose it to anumber of financial risks including market risk principally foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are managed by acentralised treasury department, in accordance with Board approved objectives, policies and authorities see also pages 41 to 42 of the Chief Financial Officers review.
Regular reports monitor exposures and assist in managing the associated risks.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 111 3.
Financial risk management continued Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is subject to foreign exchange risks on future commercial transactions and the retranslation of the results of, and net investments in, foreign subsidiaries.
The principal exposure arises with respect to the US dollar against the Pound sterling.
To mitigate risks associated with future commercial transactions, the Group policy is to hedge known and certain forecast transaction exposure based on historical experience and projections.
The Group hedges at least 70% of the next 12 months anticipated exposure and can hedge up to five years ahead.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 31.
The Group does not currently hedge exposure arising from the retranslation of the results of foreign subsidiaries.
The Group uses borrowings denominated in the relevant currencies to partially hedge its net investments inforeign subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk The Group has borrowings issued at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk, whereas borrowings issued at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to generallymaintain at least 25% of its net debt at fixed rates.
The Group mitigates interest rate risks through interest rate derivatives which havethe economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings and floating rate borrowings into fixed rate borrowings.
Detailsofhedges inplace are provided in note 31. Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk with exposure spread across alarge number of customers across the world.
Inaddition, many of the Groups principal customers are either government departments or large multinationals.
Note 24 details the Groups credit risk exposures in relation to its customers.
Policies are maintained to ensure the Group makes sales to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Letters of credit, or other appropriate instruments, are put in place to reduce credit risk where considered necessary.
The Group is also subject to credit risk on the counterparties to its other financial instruments which it controls through only dealing with highly rated counterparties and netting transactions on settlement wherever possible.
The credit quality of the Groups counterparties is set out in notes 25 and 31.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains sufficient committed facilities to meet projected borrowing requirements based on cash flow forecasts.
Additional headroom is maintained to protect against the variability of cash flows and to accommodate small bolt-on acquisitions.
Key ratios are monitored to ensure continued compliance with covenants contained in the Groups principal credit agreements.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows: 2016 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables 453.1 1.2 1.8 2.0 458.1 Bank and other borrowings 162.0 0.2 569.0 586.9 1,318.1 Interest payments on borrowings 41.8 33.3 86.0 62.4 223.5 Obligations under finance leases see note 28 1.2 1.7 3.4 13.1 19.4 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 11.6 7.1 14.1 1.3 34.1 Total 646.5 29.3 646.1 663.1 1,985.0 2015 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables as restated see note 44 391.5 0.9 1.4 1.9 395.7 Bank and other borrowings 0.1 543.2 545.6 84.9 1,173.8 Interest payments on borrowings 21.5 20.1 39.5 6.5 87.6 Obligations under finance leases see note 28 1.1 1.0 3.2 12.1 17.4 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 8.4 8.2 17.6 4.0 38.2 Outflows 0.5 0.4 0.2 1.1 Total 406.3 557.4 572.3 101.4 1,637.4 Excludes social security and other taxes of 10.9 million 2015: 10.3 million see note 26.
Assumes no change in interest rates from those prevailing at year end.
112 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Financial risk management continued Sensitivity analysis The Groups principal exposure in relation to market risks are to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and Pound sterling and to changes in US interest rates.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups results to changes in these key variables at the balance sheet date.
The analysis covers only financial assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date and is made on the basis of the hedge designations in place on those dates and assuming no hedge ineffectiveness.
2016 2015 Income Equity Income Equity statement statement m m m m USD GBP exchange rate - 10% 49.0 123.0 32.8 101.5 US yield curve - 1% 14.2 3.3 21.7 5.0 The impact on equity from movements in the exchange rate comprises 124.8 million 2015: 106.9 million in respect of US dollar net debt, offset by 1.8 million 2015: 5.4 million in respect of other financial assets and liabilities.
However, as all US dollar net debt is designated as anet investment hedge, this element of the impact is entirely offset by the retranslation of foreign subsidiaries.
The impact shown above of a1% movement in the US yield curve includes the effect on the Groups foreign currency forward contracts as well as other financial assets andliabilities.
Capital risk management The Groups objective when managing its capital structure is to minimise the cost of capital whilst maintaining adequate capital to protect against volatility in earnings and net asset values.
The strategy is designed to maximise shareholder return over the long-term.
The Groups current post-tax average cost of capital is approximately 6.2% 2015: 8.0% and its capital structure at 31 December is as follows: 2016 2015 Restated see note 44 m m Net debt see note 41 1,179.1 1,051.2 Total equity 2,456.4 2,178.5 Debt equity % 48.0% 48.3% The Board believes that in maintaining an efficient balance sheet, anet debt EBITDA ratio of between 1.5x and 2.5x is appropriate, whilst retaining the flexibility to move outside the range if appropriate.
Further details on the Groups strategy for delivering net debt EBITDA in this range can be found on page 41 and 42 of the Chief Financial Officers review, which includes details on how the Group has complied with the two principal financial covenant requirements contained in its committed credit facilities for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In applying the Groups accounting policies set out in note 2, the Group is required to make certain estimates and judgements concerning the future.
These estimates and judgements are regularly reviewed and revised as necessary.
The level at which impairment testing of goodwill is performed and the use of the equity accounting method for one of the businesses acquired as part of EDAC, the accounting for which was finalised in the year, are considered by management to be additional critical judgements in the current year.
The decrease in the proportion of contract accounting revenue and the level of provision for legal, regulatory and other similar matters, included within other provisions, are such that they are no longer considered to be critical estimates.
The estimates and judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts included in these financial statements are described below.
Further consideration of these critical estimates and judgements can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 62.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Impairment testing of goodwill Each year the Group carries out impairment tests of goodwill which require estimates to be made of the value in use of its CGUs or groups of CGUs.
These value in use calculations are dependent on estimates of future cash flows, long-term growth rates and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the carrying value of goodwill to these estimates are provided in note 18.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 113 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Fair value of intangible assets acquired in abusiness combination On the acquisition of a business, it is necessary to attribute fair values to any intangible assets acquired, provided they meet the criteria to be recognised.
The fair values of these assets are dependent on estimates of attributable future revenues, margins, cash flows and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows.
Intangible assets are subject to impairment testing at least annually or if events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Estimates of remaining useful lives of assets are also reviewed at least annually, and revised if appropriate see note 20 for further details.
During the year, the Group finalised the fair values and estimated lives of the intangible assets arising from its acquisition of the advanced composite businesses in late 2015, after taking advice from a third party valuation specialist see note 42.
The third party provided a range of discount rate assumptions that could reasonably have been used to determine the fair value of customer relationships the most significant intangible asset arising on acquisition.
Using the lower or upper end of this range would have increased or reduced the fair value recognised by 17.0 million or 14.0 million respectively.
A change in the estimated future cash flows, used to determine the fair value of customer relationships of 10% would have increased or reduced the fair value recognised by approximately 11.0 million.
Impairment testing of development costs Capitalised development costs are subject to impairment testing at least annually and, where headroom is limited or if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, more frequently.
Estimates of remaining useful lives of assets are also reviewed at least annually, and revised if appropriate.
Impairment testing requires estimates of aircraft or engine volumes taking into account the extent to which the Group has a sole-source position, aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines, costs of manufacture, costs to complete any remaining development activity and the appropriate discount rates applied to future cash flows.
At 31 December 2016, the programme with the largest capitalised development balance is the Bombardier CSeries which has a net book value of 85.5 million.
The most critical estimate is considered to be the size of the future fleet for this aircraft, which has now entered service.
Fleet volumes would need to reduce however, by approximately 60% from management estimates which are based on public forecasts, from independent industry experts, without any mitigation actions taken by the Group, before any impairment would need to be recognised.
At 31 December 2016, the programme with the next largest capitalised development balance is the Dassault 5X which has a net book value of 52.7 million.
This aircraft is yet to enter service and a two year delay was announced by the aircraft manufacturer at the start of 2016.
The most critical estimates are considered to be the date of entry into service and the size of the future fleet, both of which are based on public forecasts, from independent industry experts.
If entry into service were delayed by a further two years, without any mitigation actions taken by the Group, an impairment of approximately 8.0 million would need to be recognised.
The largest observed annual movement in fleet estimates for this aircraft in the last five years has been 8%.
A reduction of this level in 2017, without any mitigation actions taken by the Group, would not result in a significant impairment.
No reasonably foreseeable change in assumptions relating to any other capitalised development costs would cause a significant impairment toberecognised.
Impairment testing of programme participation costs Capitalised programme participation costs are subject to impairment testing at least annually and, where headroom is limited or if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, more frequently.
Impairment testing requires estimates of aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines and the appropriate discount rates applied to future cash flows.
At 31 December 2016, the programme with the largest capitalised programme participation balance has a net book value of 44.1 million.
No reasonably foreseeable change in assumptions would cause an impairment to be recognised.
No reasonably foreseeable change in assumptions relating to any other capitalised programme participation costs would cause a significant impairment to be recognised.
Retirement benefit obligations The liability recognised in respect of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of estimates including those relating to mortality, inflation, salary increases and the rate at which liabilities are discounted.
External actuarial advice is taken with regard to the most appropriate assumptions to use.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the retirement benefit obligations to these estimates are provided in note 34.
Environmental provisions The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of certain sites for which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law see note 32 for further details.
In determining the provision to be recognised, advice is received by the Group from its environmental consultants and legal advisors to assist in the estimate of the level and timing of remediation costs, including the period for which operations and monitoring activities will be required to be carried out.
In the last five years, annual reductions and increases in costs estimates have both been experienced.
If cost estimates were to change by 15%, the largest observed overall annual movement seen in this period, the provision recognised would need to change by approximately 18.0 million.
The Group has extensive insurance arrangements in place to mitigate the on-going impact of historical environmental events on the Group see note 32 for further details.
These insurance policies have monetary caps and in some cases are term policies, whereby costs are only recoverable if incurred by specified dates.
The estimates of the level and timing of remediation costs, used to determine the provision, are also used in determining the level of receivable to recognise.
If remediation cost estimates were to reduce by 15%, the receivable recognised would need to reduce by approximately 15.0 million.
If remediation cost estimates were to increase by 15%, the receivable recognised would need to increase by approximately 2.0 million, reflecting the impact of the insurance policy caps that are in place.
Whilst the timing of remediation is based on advice from third party environmental consultants, it is possible that delays of up to 12 months could occur.
If ongoing remediation activities were to be delayed by 12 months, without any mitigating action taken by the Group, a reduction in the receivable recognised of approximately 10.0 million would need to be recorded, reflecting the impact of policy expiration dates.
114 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Onerous contract provisions The Group makes provision for any expected losses arising from onerous contracts, which require estimates to be made of future contract revenues, margins, potential claims from third parties and cash flows.
These estimates are dependent on a number of factors including anticipated sales volumes, future pricing, production costs and the outcome of negotiations with third parties.
To the extent these estimates change as more information becomes available, adjustments are made to the carrying value of these provisions.
Whilst each contract provision is subject to its own unique risks, none are individually material.
Accordingly whilst a range of outcomes on each contract is reasonably possible, the Group would expect, based on its recent past experience, the net outcome across all onerous contracts to range from a potential increase of 5.0 million in the provision to a potential reduction of 9.0 million see note 32 for further details.
Income taxes In determining the Groups tax provision, it is necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Groups tax provision at 31 December 2016 is 43.4 million and reflects a number of areas of judgement where the amount of tax payable is either currently under audit by the tax authorities or relates to a period which has yet to be audited.
These areas include the deductibility of interest on certain borrowings used to finance acquisitions made by the Group and the price at which goods and services are transferred between Group companies.
The nature of the items, for which a provision is held, is such that the final outcome could vary from the amounts held once a final tax determination is made, although currently none of these exposures is considered individually material.
Based on the Groups recent experience of revisions to previous tax estimates as more information has become available, and assuming no significant changes in legislation, it currently expects the outcome across all open items to range from a potential increase of 4.0 million in the provision to a potential reduction of 10.0 million.
To the extent the estimated final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax balances held in the period the determination is made.
Critical accounting judgements Level at which impairment testing of goodwill is performed Goodwill is required to be allocated to CGUs or groups of CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
In the Groups judgement, with the exception of businesses within its Equipment Group segment and the advance composite businesses acquired in late 2015 see note 42, it is appropriate to allocate goodwill to the group of CGUs represented by its operating segments.
In making this judgement, the Group has considered the extent to which the increasing recent consolidation of activities within each segment other than in the Meggitt Equipment Group has meant it is no longer possible in 2016 to allocate goodwill to individual CGUs within that segment without the need to perform significant arbitrary allocations.
The allocation of goodwill at a segment level is consistent with the level at which it is monitored by management.
Due to the nature of CGUs within the Meggitt Equipment Group, which principally operate independently of one another, goodwill can be reliably allocated to each CGU within the segment for testing.
The cash inflows of the two advanced composites businesses are not considered independent of one another, and accordingly are treated as a single CGU in 2016.
Although integration of the activities of the CGU with the rest of the businesses within its operating segment is progressing well, it is still possible to reliably allocate goodwill to the CGU and it continues to be monitored by management at this level.
Accordingly impairment testing in the year has been performed at the CGU level.
Capitalisation of development costs The Group is required to make judgements as to when development costs meet the criteria to be recognised as intangible assets.
The majority of capitalised development costs relate to technology developed for aerospace programmes.
In such cases, costs are typically not capitalised until a contract to develop the technology is awarded by a customer as, prior to this date, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate the point at which research activities conclude and development activities commence.
Absent a contract, the Group also does not believe there is generally sufficient certainty over the future economic benefits that will be generated from the technology, to allow capitalisation of those costs.
Post contract award, the Group will capitalise development costs provided it expects to retain the intellectual property in the technology throughout substantially all of the life of the aircraft or engine and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
In making a judgement as to whether economic benefits will arise, the Group will make estimates of aircraft or engine volumes taking into account the extent to which the Group has a sole-source position, aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines, costs of manufacture and costs to complete the development activity.
During 2016, the Group recognised 72.4 million of development costs as an intangible asset see note 19.
Capitalisation of programme participation costs The Group is required to make judgements as to when programme participation costs meet the criteria to be recognised as intangible assets.
Approximately 85% of capitalised programme participation costs relate to free of charge or deeply discounted manufactured parts FOC, with the balance relating to cash programme payments.
All amounts relate to aerospace programmes.
FOC costs are typically incurred just prior to individual aircraft entering service and only where the Group is satisfied it is probable the costs will be recovered through incremental aftermarket revenues generated over the life of the part, will amounts be capitalised.
In making this judgement, the Group makes estimates of aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines.
The capitalisation of cash payments is subject to similar judgements to those described for development costs above.
During 2016, the Group recognised 57.9 million of programme participation costs as an intangible asset see note 19.
Accounting for joint venture As part of the acquisition of EDAC, the Group acquired 70% of the equity shares in a joint arrangement.
The arrangement is structured as a legal entity and the contractual agreements between the Group and the other equity holder, provide both with rights to the net assets of the entity.
Although the Group owns 70% of the equity, unanimous consent of both parties to the arrangement is required in respect of the entities relevant activities including approval of the annual business plan and strategy, significant funding decisions affecting the entity, the appointment of key management, distributions to shareholders and changes in share capital.
In the Groups judgement, the entity meets the definition of a joint venture and accordingly has been accounted for using the equity method see note 22 for further details.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 115 5.
Revenue The Groups revenue is analysed as follows: 2016 2015 m m Sale of goods 1,798.8 1,470.4 Contract accounting revenue 59.8 66.7 Revenue from services Power by the hour Cost per brake landing 39.0 38.8 Revenue from services Other 56.0 40.1 Revenue from funded research and development 38.8 31.2 Total 1,992.4 1,647.2 6.
Segmental analysis Analysis by operating segment The Group manages its businesses under the key segments of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt Control Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
Details of the Groups divisions can be found on pages 23 to 27 of the Strategic report.
Year ended 31 December 2016 The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
Adetailed reconciliation of operating profit to underlying operating profit is provided in note 10.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 406.2 476.7 331.2 543.6 262.8 2,020.5 Inter-segment revenue 0.1 0.8 1.5 12.9 12.8 28.1 Revenue from external customers 406.1 475.9 329.7 530.7 250.0 1,992.4 Underlying operating profit see note 10 146.6 117.6 39.5 73.0 3.0 379.7 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 146.0 Operating profit see note 10 233.7 Finance income see note 12 2.0 Finance costs see note 13 40.2 Net finance costs 38.2 Profit before tax 195.5 Tax see note 14 24.3 Profit for the year 171.2 Exceptional operating items see note 11 3.3 0.2 7.0 2.7 2.3 15.5 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 87.8 19.2 23.6 20.8 10.7 162.1 Impairment loss reversal of impairment loss see note 19 1.5 1.5 3.3 3.3 Depreciation see note 21 7.7 7.6 7.9 11.6 6.5 41.3 Central costs are allocated using avariety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Bases include headcount, payroll costs, gross assets and revenue.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 63.5 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 6.6% of revenue 132.4 million.
Revenue from this customer arises across all segments.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs net of customer funding see note 19 34.0 2.0 0.7 27.3 5.6 69.6 Programme participation costs see note 19 49.0 6.1 0.2 2.6 57.9 Other purchased intangible assets 1.3 0.3 0.9 1.1 0.5 4.1 Property, plant and equipment 8.4 10.7 14.8 14.6 4.8 53.3 Total 92.7 19.1 16.6 45.6 10.9 184.9 Relate to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
116 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued As at 31 December 2016 Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 832.6 Meggitt Control Systems 364.2 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 230.0 Meggitt Sensing Systems 463.2 Meggitt Equipment Group 178.6 Total segmental trading assets 2,068.6 Centrally managed trading assets 176.0 Goodwill see note 18 2,095.7 Other intangible assets 738.3 Investments see note 22 14.8 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 31 21.8 Deferred tax assets see note 33 15.9 Derivative financial instruments current see note 31 4.2 Current tax recoverable 4.4 Cash and cash equivalents see note 25 173.8 Total assets 5,313.5 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers and other third parties in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Year ended 31 December 2015 The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 353.3 398.8 178.0 480.8 244.9 1,655.8 Inter-segment revenue 0.2 0.9 0.6 6.0 0.9 8.6 Revenue from external customers 353.1 397.9 177.4 474.8 244.0 1,647.2 Underlying operating profit see note 10 131.7 97.0 15.4 72.3 9.1 325.5 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 88.9 Operating profit see note 10 236.6 Finance income see note 12 2.7 Finance costs see note 13 29.1 Net finance costs 26.4 Profit before tax 210.2 Tax see note 14 28.1 Profit for the year 182.1 Exceptional operating items see note 11 0.9 1.2 0.8 4.9 2.6 10.4 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 77.7 16.0 6.9 15.1 5.3 121.0 Impairment loss see note 19 6.4 6.4 Depreciation see note 21 7.3 6.4 4.1 10.1 5.6 33.5 Central costs are allocated using avariety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 49.1 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 6.6% of revenue 109.0 million.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 117 6.
Segmental analysis continued Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs net of customer funding see note 19 37.5 7.4 1.6 25.5 8.5 80.5 Programme participation costs see note 19 37.4 4.8 0.8 43.0 Other purchased intangible assets 2.0 1.2 0.4 1.2 0.9 5.7 Property, plant and equipment 8.5 8.0 6.9 11.9 4.2 39.5 Total 85.4 21.4 8.9 39.4 13.6 168.7 Relate to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
As at 31 December 2015 As restated see note 44 Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 666.6 Meggitt Control Systems 303.7 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 173.6 Meggitt Sensing Systems 387.7 Meggitt Equipment Group 145.9 Total segmental trading assets 1,677.5 Centrally managed trading assets 179.8 Goodwill see note 18 1,815.5 Other intangible assets 722.7 Investments see note 22 11.4 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 31 25.5 Deferred tax assets see note 33 0.3 Derivative financial instruments current see note 31 8.4 Current tax recoverable 5.5 Cash and cash equivalents see note 25 147.3 Total assets 4,593.9 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers and other third parties in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Analysis by geography 2016 2015 m m Revenue UK 201.8 153.9 Rest of Europe 422.2 357.6 United States of America 1,081.7 854.9 Rest of World 286.7 280.8 Total 1,992.4 1,647.2 Revenue is based on the location of the customer.
2016 2015 Restated see note 44 m m Non-current assets UK 700.8 698.3 Rest of Europe 211.2 182.2 United States of America 3,194.1 2,688.5 Rest of World 11.1 11.3 Total 4,117.2 3,580.3 Segmental non-current assets are based on the location of the assets.
They exclude the investment in the Groups joint venture, trade and other receivables, derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
118 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Auditors remuneration Payable to  LLP and its associates: 2016 2015 m m For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the current year 1.2 0.8 For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the prior year 0.2 0.1 For the audit of the accounts of any subsidiary of the Company in respect of the current year 0.7 0.6 Total 2.1 1.5 Non-audit fees payable to  LLP were Nil million 2015: Nil million.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2016 2015 m m Raw materials and consumables used 588.5 492.5 Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 24.0 34.0 Employee costs see note 9 708.2 590.6 Research and development costs 85.4 73.9 Amortisation of capitalised development costs see note 19 14.0 7.9 Amortisation of programme participation costs see note 19 33.4 28.9 Amortisation of other purchased intangible assets see note 20 16.1 12.3 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations see note 10 98.6 71.9 Impairment loss on capitalised development costs see note 19 3.3 6.4 Depreciation see note 21 41.3 33.5 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.4 Exceptional operating items see note 11 15.5 10.4 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses see note 10 39.1 0.2 Financial instruments see note 10 66.4 4.8 Net foreign exchange gains 5.3 2.6 Operating lease rentals 16.9 14.9 Share of profit after tax of joint venture see note 22 1.2 Other operating income 2.3 1.9 Total research and development expenditure in the year was 157.8 million 2015: 158.7 million of which 31.7 million 2015: 26.8 million was charged to cost of sales, 53.7 million 2015: 47.1 million was charged to net operating costs and 72.4 million 2015: 84.8 million wascapitalised as development costs see note 19.
Employee information 2016 2015 m m Employee costs including executive directors: Wages and salaries 554.3 464.5 Social security costs 100.7 82.6 Retirement benefit costs see note 34 45.2 39.4 Share-based payment expense see note 36 8.0 4.1 Total 708.2 590.6 Details of directors remuneration is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 66 to 88 which forms part of these financialstatements.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 119 9.
Employee information continued 2016 2015 Restated Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive directors: Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 1,280 1,300 Meggitt Control Systems 1,845 1,885 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 2,730 1,818 Meggitt Sensing Systems 3,272 3,365 Meggitt Equipment Group 1,872 2,042 Corporate including shared services 480 441 Total 11,479 10,851 Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect the transfer of Meggitt Xiamen into Meggitt Equipment Group and Meggitt Aerospace Asia Pacific into Meggitt Control Systems.
Both businesses were previously reported within Corporate including shared services.
The transfers didnot have any significant impact on segmental information provided in note 6 and accordingly comparative information in that note has not beenrestated.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit Underlying profit is used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying trading performance of the Group.
It excludes certain items as described below.
Delivery of the Groups strategy includes investment in acquisitions that enhance its technology portfolio and the restructuring of its cost base to deliver operational improvements.
The exclusion of significant items arising from M&A activity and business restructuring is designed by the Board to align short-term operational decisions with this longer-term strategy.
Accordingly amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses, amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations, disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations, business restructuring and site consolidation costs are excluded from underlying profit measures.
To ensure appropriate and timely commercial decisions are made as to when and how to mitigate the Groups foreign currency and interest rate exposures, any gains and losses arising from the marking to market of financial instruments that are not hedge accounted are also excluded fromunderlying profit measures.
The Board considers net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations to be a non-cash, non-trading item and accordingly excludes it fromunderlying profit measures.
The items excluded from underlying profit measures are treated consistently with the way performance is measured under the Groups short-term and long-term incentive plans and covenant requirements defined in the Groups committed credit facilities.
2016 2015 Note m m Operating profit 233.7 236.6 Exceptional operating items see note 11 15.5 10.4 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses a 39.1 0.2 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations b 98.6 71.9 Disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations c 4.6 1.6 Financial instruments d 66.4 4.8 Adjustments to operating profit 146.0 88.9 Underlying operating profit 379.7 325.5 Profit before tax 195.5 210.2 Adjustments to operating profit per above 146.0 88.9 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 34 10.6 11.2 Adjustments to profit before tax 156.6 100.1 Underlying profit before tax 352.1 310.3 Profit for the year 171.2 182.1 Adjustments to profit before tax per above 156.6 100.1 Tax effect of adjustments to profit before tax 58.4 33.9 Adjustments to profit for the year 98.2 66.2 Underlying profit for the year 269.4 248.3 Of the adjustments to operating profit, 3.6 million 2015: 4.0 million relating to exceptional operating items and 4.6 million 2015: 1.6 million relating to the disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations has been charged to cost of sales, with the balance of 137.8 million 2015: 83.3 million included within net operating costs.
120 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit continued a.
The Group separately presents amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses.
These include gains or losses made on the disposal or closure of abusiness, adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of an acquired business or receivable in respect of adisposed business and costs directly attributable to the acquisition of abusiness.
2016 2015 m m Gain on disposal of businesses see note 43 40.7 1.2 Remeasurement of fair value of contingent consideration receivable relating to previously disposed businesses 0.3 2.5 Costs related to the acquisition of businesses 1.3 3.9 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses 39.1 0.2 b.
The Group excludes from its underlying profit figures the amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
2016 2015 m m Amortisation of other intangible assets see note 20 114.7 84.2 Less amortisation of other purchased intangible assets see note 20 16.1 12.3 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 98.6 71.9 c. IFRS 3 requires finished goods acquired in abusiness combination to be recorded at fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs of disposal and areasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
Work in progress acquired in abusiness combination is recorded at fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and areasonable profit allowance for work still to be carried out.
The fair value of acquired inventory is thus significantly higher than the same items built post acquisition, the value of which includes no profit element.
The difference between the fair value of the inventory consumed and its cost is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures.
d. Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
The Groups underlying profit figures exclude amounts which would not have been recorded if hedge accounting had been applied.
Where interest rate derivatives do qualify to be hedge accounted, any difference between the movement in the fair value of derivatives and in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings is excluded from underlying profit.
Where cross currency derivatives and treasury lock derivatives do not qualify to be hedge accounted, movements in the fair value of the derivatives are excluded from underlying profit.
Gains or losses arising from the remeasurement of the fair value of close period share buyback commitments are excluded from underlying profit.
2016 2015 m m Movement in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts 48.0 16.1 Impact of retranslating net foreign currency assets and liabilities at spot rate 2.3 0.1 Movement in the fair value of interest rate derivatives 3.8 2.2 Movement in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings 0.8 1.1 Movement in the fair value of cross currency derivatives 2.9 4.4 Movement in the fair value of treasury lock derivative 8.6 3.7 Remeasurement of share buyback close period commitment 4.2 Financial instruments loss 66.4 4.8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 121 11.
Exceptional operating items Income statement Cash expenditure 2016 2015 2016 2015 Note m m m m Business restructuring costs a 5.7 9.2 6.2 4.8 Integration of acquired businesses b 6.6 0.3 6.6 0.1 Site consolidations c 7.0 0.9 4.7 0.9 Raw material supply issue d 3.8 0.8 4.9 Exceptional operating items 15.5 10.4 18.3 10.7 a.
This relates to costs incurred as part of a Group-wide initiative to structurally reduce its cost base announced on 28 October 2015, which completed in 2016.
Total costs incurred since the announcement in 2015 are 11.0 million.
This relates to costs incurred in respect of the on-going integration of the Advanced Composites and EDAC businesses acquired in November and December 2015 respectively.
c. This principally relates to the closure of the Groups sensor operations in Rugby, UK and control systems operations in Corona, USA and transfer of their activities to the Groups existing operations in Hampshire, UK and California, USA together with the consolidation of the Groups US braking systems maintenance, repair and overhaul services onto a single site in Kentucky.
d. This relates to unused amounts reversed in the year in respect of the provision originally created in 2013 relating to the supply from a vendor ofnon-conforming raw materials in one of our businesses see note 32.
The tax credit in respect of exceptional operating items was 4.9 million 2015: 3.2 million.
Finance income 2016 2015 m m Interest on bank deposits 0.1 0.1 Unwinding of interest on other receivables see note 32 1.8 2.5 Other finance income 0.1 0.1 Finance income 2.0 2.7 13.
Finance costs 2016 2015 m m Interest on bank borrowings 7.0 4.1 Interest on senior notes 21.8 11.7 Interest on obligations under finance leases 1.1 1.0 Unwinding of discount on provisions see note 32 2.5 3.2 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 34 10.6 11.2 Amortisation of debt issue costs 1.2 0.8 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets see note 19 4.0 2.9 Finance costs 40.2 29.1 14.
Tax 2016 2015 m m Current tax current year 26.2 21.4 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 1.6 2.9 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.7 6.3 Deferred tax effects of changes in tax rates 1.2 1.0 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 4.0 4.3 Total taxation 24.3 28.1 The Finance No 2 Act 2015, included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax in the UK from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18% with effect from 1 April 2020.
As these changes were substantively enacted during 2015, they are reflected in the tax charge for the prior year.
The Finance Act 2016, included legislation to further reduce the main rate of corporation tax in the UK to 17% from 1 April 2020.
As this change was substantively enacted during 2016, it has been reflected in the tax charge for the current year.
The impact of this change on net deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2016, profit for the year underlying and statutory and comprehensive income for the year was notsignificant.
122 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Tax continued Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation of the tax charge based on the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the Groups consolidated businesses is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax at weighted average tax rate of 27.0% 2015: 25.7% 52.8 54.0 Effects of: Changes in statutory tax rates 1.2 1.0 Share-based payment tax relief 0.8 0.6 Non taxable gain on disposal of businesses 7.9 Tax concessions 16.8 14.5 Tax credits and incentives 4.4 4.1 Additional provisions unused amounts reversed in respect of historical tax uncertainties 3.1 11.4 Other permanent differences 1.9 1.1 Tax losses not recognised in deferred tax 2.0 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 1.6 2.9 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 4.0 4.3 Total taxation 24.3 28.1 The sensitivity of the tax charge to changes in the tax rate is such that aone percentage point increase, or reduction, in the tax rate would cause the total taxation charge for 2016 to increase, or reduce respectively, by approximately 2.0 million.
The tax reconciliation for 2016 includes 7.9 million in respect of the benefit of a UK capital gains exemption on the disposal of Meggitt Target Systems see note 43, 16.8 million in respect of tax concessions in the UK and Switzerland which allow income to be taxed at beneficial rates, 4.4 million in respect of tax credits and incentives in the UK and US for items such as research & development expenditure and a provision of 3.1 million in respect of various historical tax issues in the Group.
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 2016 2015 Before Tax charge After Before Tax credit After tax credit tax tax charge tax m m m m m m Current tax currency translation differences 310.9 3.5 307.4 80.3 2.4 82.7 Deferred tax currency translation differences 1.2 0.2 1.0 2.4 0.4 2.0 Deferred tax cash flow hedge movements 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.6 Deferred tax remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 120.7 20.1 100.6 29.4 9.5 19.9 Other comprehensive income 191.2 16.5 207.7 111.4 7.4 104.0 Current tax 3.5 2.4 Deferred tax 20.0 9.8 Total 16.5 7.4 Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity 2016 2015 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payment expense 0.2 0.5 Deferred tax credit charge relating to share-based payment expense 0.4 2.5 Total 0.6 2.0 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 123 15.
Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
The weighted average number of shares used excludes treasury shares and any shares bought by the Group and held during the year by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust see note 37.
The weighted average number of treasury shares excluded was 0.2 million shares 2015: 0.3 million shares and the weighted average number of own shares excluded was 1.5 million shares 2015:0.7 million shares.
The calculation of diluted EPS adjusts the weighted average number of shares to reflect the assumption that allpotentially dilutive ordinary shares convert.
For the Group this means assuming all share awards in issue are exercised.
2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Profit Shares EPS Profit Shares EPS m Number m Pence m Number m Pence Basic EPS 171.2 774.7 22.1 182.1 785.4 23.2 Potential effect of dilutive ordinary shares 11.3 0.3 10.9 0.3 Diluted EPS 171.2 786.0 21.8 182.1 796.3 22.9 Profit for the year attributable to equity owners of the Company.
Underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares as is used in the calculation of basic EPS.
Itis reconciled to basic EPS below: 2016 2015 Pence Pence Basic EPS 22.1 23.2 Adjust for effects of: Exceptional operating items 1.4 0.9 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses 5.1 0.2 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 8.2 5.8 Disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations 0.4 0.1 Financial instruments 6.8 0.4 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 1.0 1.0 Underlying basic EPS 34.8 31.6 Diluted underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS.
Diluted underlying EPS for the year was 34.3 pence 2015: 31.2 pence.
Dividends 2016 2015 m m In respect of earlier years 75.6 In respect of 2015: Interim of 4.60p per share 35.5 Final of 9.80p per share 75.8 In respect of 2016: Interim of 4.80p per share 37.2 Dividends paid in cash 113.0 111.1 A final dividend in respect of 2016 of 10.30p per share 2015: 9.80p, amounting to an estimated total final dividend of 79.9 million 2015:75.8million is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2017.
This dividend is not reflected in these financial statementsasit had not been approved by the shareholders at the balance sheet date.
124 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Related party transactions During the year, the Group made sales to the joint venture of 3.4 million and purchases from the joint venture of 0.7 million.
Amounts due from the joint venture at the balance sheet date are shown in note 24.
There are no amounts due to the joint venture at the balance sheet date.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
The remuneration of key management personnel of the Group, which is defined for 2016 as members of the Board and the Group Leadership Team, is set out below: 2016 2015 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 11.3 9.0 Retirement benefit expense 0.3 0.3 Share-based payment expense 2.7 1.3 Total 14.3 10.6 Interests of key management personnel, including executive directors, in share schemes operated by the Group at the balance sheet date are set out below: 2016 2016 2015 2015 Average Number Average Number exercise outstanding exercise outstanding price price Pence m Pence m Share appreciation rights equity-settled 263.54 2.1 349.19 3.2 Equity participation plan shares 0.7 1.6 Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 5.1 3.0 Full details of all elements in the remuneration package of each director, together with directors share interests and share awards, are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 66 to 88 which forms part of these financial statements.
Goodwill 2016 2015 Restated see note 44 m m Cost at 1 January 1,815.5 1,534.7 Exchange rate adjustments 282.8 69.8 Businesses acquired as restated see note 42 211.0 Businesses disposed see note 43 2.6 Cost at 31 December 2,095.7 1,815.5 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there is any indication of impairment.
No impairment charge was required in the year 2015: Nil and the cumulative impairment charge recognised to date is Nil 2015: Nil.
An analysis of goodwill by CGU or group of CGUs is shown below: 2016 2015 Restated m m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS 854.2 734.0 Meggitt Control Systems MCS 474.9 406.3 Meggitt Polymers & Composites MPC Excluding EDAC & Advanced Composites 138.2 123.4 EDAC & Advanced Composites 241.7 212.9 Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS 264.8 231.4 Meggitt Training Systems MTS 84.2 70.6 Other 37.7 36.9 Total 2,095.7 1,815.5 During the year, the Group determined that certain CGUs are now so highly integrated with one another that allocating goodwill on a non-arbitrary basis to individual CGUs was no longer possible.
Accordingly, goodwill is allocated to the group of CGUs which represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by management.
Following the acquisition of the EDAC and Advanced Composites businesses in 2015, management has continued to monitor the goodwill of the combined acquired businesses separately from the rest of the division during 2016.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 125 18.
Goodwill continued For each CGU or group of CGUs, the Group has determined its recoverable amount from value in use calculations.
The value in use calculations are based on cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent budgets and plans for the next five years, as approved by management in December 2016.
Cash flows for periods beyond five years are extrapolated using estimated growth rates.
The resultant cash flows are discounted using apre-tax discount rate appropriate to the relevant CGU or group of CGUs.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are as follows: Sales volumes over the five years covered by managements detailed plans.
These are based on management estimates for growth in civil aerospace OE, civil aerospace aftermarket, military and energy markets, and reflect the position each business has on individual aerospace and other programmes.
They are derived from industry forecasts for deliveries of large jets, regional aircraft and business jets, air traffic growth, military spending by the US DoD and other major governments and oil prices.
The exposure of MABS, MCS, MPC and MSS to these markets, is set out in the Strategic report on pages 23 to 27.
MTS operates entirely within the military market.
The Groups medium term expectations for growth in these markets, is set out in the Strategic report on pages 18 to 21.
Selling prices and production cost changes over the five years covered by managements detailed plans.
These are based on contractual agreements with customers and suppliers, managements past experience and expectations of future market changes and the continued maturity of the Meggitt Production System.
Growth rates used for periods beyond those covered by managements detailed budgets and plans.
Growth rates are derived from managements estimates which take into account the long-term nature of the industry in which each CGU or group of CGUs operates, external industry forecasts of long-term growth in the aerospace and defence sectors, the extent to which aCGU or group of CGUs has sole-source positions on platforms where it is able to share in acontinuing stream of highly profitable aftermarket revenues, the maturity of the platforms it supplies and the technological content of its products.
For the purpose of impairment testing, aconservative approach has been used and where the derived rate is higher than the long-term GDP growth rates for the principal countries in which the CGU or group of CGUs operates UK: 2.1% 2015: 2.3%, US: 2.3% 2015:2.5%, the latter has been used.
Discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC was used as the foundation for determining the discount rates to be applied.
The WACC was then adjusted to reflect risks specific to the CGU or group of CGUs not already reflected in its future cash flows.
The discount rates used were as follows: MABS 9.6% 2015: 10.1%, MCS 10.2% 2015:10.8%, MPC 9.9% 2015: 10.1%, MSS 8.4% 2015: 10.2%, EDAC & Advanced Composites 10.1% In 2015, no testing was performed due to the proximity of the acquisitions to the balance sheet date and MTS 11.3% 2015: 10.0%.
The discount rates used for Other CGUs ranged between 8.7% to 12.0% 2015: 8.7% to11.1%.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out at each level at which impairment testing was performed to determine the extent to which assumptions would need to change for the calculated recoverable amounts from value in use, to fall below its carrying value of goodwill.
Management has concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model would result in asignificant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements.
The least headroom in percentage terms are in MABS, MTS and EDAC & Advanced Composites.
To require an impairment in the Group financial statements, one of the following would be required: EDAC & Advanced MABS MTS Composites Reduction in estimates of cash flows more than 25% 27% 38% Reduction of long-term growth rates more than 49% 100% 100% Increase in the discount rate applied to future cash flows more than 25% 31% 41% Headroom 593.5m 42.6m 240.4m 126 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Development costs and programme participation costs Development Programme costs participation costs m m At 1 January 2015 Cost 431.2 419.2 Accumulated amortisation 88.3 176.8 Net book amount 342.9 242.4 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 342.9 242.4 Exchange rate adjustments 17.7 11.1 Additions Internal development costs 84.8 Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts 41.4 Cash payments 1.6 Funding from customers 4.3 Interest capitalised 2.9 Transfers to inventory 21.3 Impairment loss 6.4 Amortisation 7.9 28.9 Net book amount 408.4 267.6 At 31 December 2015 Cost 506.9 479.7 Accumulated amortisation 98.5 212.1 Net book amount 408.4 267.6 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 408.4 267.6 Exchange rate adjustments 68.8 41.4 Additions Internal development costs 72.4 Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts 53.5 Cash payments 4.4 Funding from customers 2.8 Interest capitalised 4.0 Impairment loss 3.3 Amortisation 14.0 33.4 Net book amount 533.5 333.5 At 31 December 2016 Cost 657.1 609.1 Accumulated amortisation 123.6 275.6 Net book amount 533.5 333.5 Charged to net operating costs in respect of development costs and to cost of sales in respect of programme participation costs.
Interest has been capitalised using the average rate payable on the Groups floating rate borrowings of 1.5% 2015: 1.5%.
Tax relief claimed on interest capitalised in the year was 0.8 million 2015: 0.6 million.
The net book amount of development costs includes 246.3 million 2015: 182.0 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 14.6 years 2015: 14.1 years.
The net book amount of programme participation costs comprises 283.4 million 2015: 226.4 million in respect of free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts and 50.1 million 2015: 41.2 million in respect of cash programme payments.
The net book amount of programme participation costs includes 303.5 million 2015: 248.3 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 9.2 years 2015: 8.6 years.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 127 20.
Amortisation of these items is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures see note 10.
The net book amount of customer relationships includes 317.0 million 2015: 310.0 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, 147.1 million 2015: 135.8 million in respect of Meggitt Polymers & Composites, 57.4 million 2015: 56.5 million in respect of Meggitt Control Systems and 54.4 million 2015: 17.0 million in respect of Meggitt Sensing Systems, which have estimated weighted average remaining lives of7.0 years 2015: 8.0 years, 11.9 years 2015: 12.9 years, 8.0 years 2015: 9.0 years and 8.2 years 2015: 9.0 years respectively.
The net book amount of technology includes 62.7 million 2015:61.8million inrespect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems and 48.0 million 2015 as restated: 46.1 million in respect of Meggitt Polymers & Composites which have estimated weighted average remaining lives of 7.0 years 2015: 8.0 years and 8.4 years 2015 as restated: 9.1 years respectively.
128 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, Total buildings equipment and vehicles m m m At 1 January 2015 Cost 179.6 413.8 593.4 Accumulated depreciation 56.5 285.8 342.3 Net book amount 123.1 128.0 251.1 Year ended 31 December 2015 As restated Opening net book amount 123.1 128.0 251.1 Exchange rate adjustments 2.8 4.4 7.2 Businesses acquired as restated see note 42 6.9 13.5 20.4 Additions 4.8 39.5 44.3 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Depreciation 7.0 26.5 33.5 Net book amount As restated 130.6 158.2 288.8 At 31 December 2015 As restated Cost 197.4 466.3 663.7 Accumulated depreciation 66.8 308.1 374.9 Net book amount As restated 130.6 158.2 288.8 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 130.6 158.2 288.8 Exchange rate adjustments 14.2 23.2 37.4 Businesses disposed see note 43 0.6 1.3 1.9 Additions 8.3 47.9 56.2 Disposals 1.3 1.0 2.3 Depreciation 7.9 33.4 41.3 Net book amount 143.3 193.6 336.9 At 31 December 2016 Cost 224.5 559.0 783.5 Accumulated depreciation 81.2 365.4 446.6 Net book amount 143.3 193.6 336.9 The Groups obligations under finance leases see note 28 are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets, which have acarrying amount of 4.9 million included within land and buildings 2015: 4.4 million.
Investments The Groups investment in its joint venture, Parkway-HS, LLC has been accounted for using the equity method and is stated as follows: 2016 2015 Restated see note 44 m m At 1 January 11.4 Exchange rate adjustments 2.2 0.1 Arising on the acquisition of EDAC see note 42 11.3 Share of profit after tax 1.2 At 31 December 14.8 11.4 Summarised financial information for joint venture Set out below is summarised financial information for the joint venture which is accounted for using the equity method.
The information reflects amounts presented in its financial statements adjusted to reflect the Groups accounting policies and not the Groups share of those amounts.
Due to the timing of the acquisition of the joint venture, its impact on the results of the Group for the year-ended 31 December 2015 was not significant.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 129 22.
Investments continued Summarised statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2016 2016 m Revenue 20.8 Operating profit 1.8 Finance costs 0.1 Profit before tax 1.7 Tax 0.1 Profit after tax 1.6 Total comprehensive income from continuing operations 2.1 After charging depreciation and amortisation of 0.2 million.
Summarised balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 2016 2015 m m Property, plant and equipment 1.7 1.5 Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 Other current assets 6.3 6.5 Total current assets 6.4 6.5 Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 0.9 1.9 Other current liabilities 2.6 3.6 Total current liabilities 3.5 5.5 Net assets 4.6 2.5 Reconciliation of summarised financial information as at 31 December 2016 2016 m Net assets at 1 January 2.5 Total comprehensive income 2.1 Net assets at 31 December 4.6 Groups interest in joint venture at 70% 3.2 Goodwill 11.6 Groups investment at 31 December 14.8 There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint venture.
Inventories 2016 2015 Restated see note 44 m m Contract costs incurred 40.3 32.3 Less progress billings 1.3 1.7 Net contract costs 39.0 30.6 Raw materials and bought-in components 170.3 137.4 Manufacturing work in progress 185.4 163.5 Finished goods and goods for resale 73.8 70.1 Total 468.5 401.6 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales was 1,169.8 million 2015: 956.3 million.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes 5.0 million 2015: 2.8 million in respect of write-downs of inventory to net realisable value, and has been reduced by 4.3 million 2015: 3.8 million in respect of the reversal of write-downs made in previous years.
130 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 Restated see note 44 m m Trade receivables 334.1 263.2 Amounts recoverable on contracts 40.6 25.7 Prepayments and accrued income 21.6 18.0 Other receivables 96.6 106.7 Total 492.9 413.6 Less non-current portion: Other receivables 58.4 62.2 Non-current portion 58.4 62.2 Current portion 434.5 351.4 Other receivables includes 77.4 million 2015: 83.4 million in respect of amounts recoverable from insurers and other third parties principally relating to businesses sold by Whittaker Corporation prior to its acquisition by the Group see note 32 of which 21.7 million 2015:23.4million is shown as current.
Other receivables are discounted where the impact is significant.
Trade receivables include 0.4 million due from the joint venture 2015: Nil million.
Trade receivables are stated after aprovision for impairment of 6.1 million 2015: 6.1 million as restated.
Other balances within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The provision for impairment against trade receivables is based on aspecific risk assessment takinginto account past default experience and is analysed as follows: 2016 2015 Restated m m At 1 January 6.1 3.8 Exchange rate adjustments 0.7 0.1 Businesses acquired as restated 1.2 Credit charge to income statement net operating costs 0.7 1.0 At 31 December 6.1 6.1 At 31 December 2016, trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts of 57.1 million 2015: 49.8 million as restated were past due but not impaired.
These relate to anumber of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these tradeand other receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 Restated m m Up to 3 months overdue 49.2 43.9 Over 3 months overdue 7.9 5.9 Total 57.1 49.8 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the fair value of each class of receivable reported above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2016 2015 Restated m m Sterling 71.7 70.9 US dollar 380.6 304.8 Euro 30.8 29.8 Other 9.8 8.1 Total 492.9 413.6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 131 25.
Cash and cash equivalents 2016 2015 Restated see note 44 m m Cash at bank and on hand 142.8 125.2 Short-term bank deposits 31.0 22.1 Total 173.8 147.3 Cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest at floating rates.
The credit quality of the financial institutions where the cash and cash equivalents is held are as follows: 2016 2015 Restated m m Moodys rating: Aaa 0.2 0.8 Aa 51.1 66.3 A 65.8 36.0 Baa 56.7 44.2 Total 173.8 147.3 26.
Trade and other payables current 2016 2015 Restated see note 44 m m Payments received on account 27.2 29.5 Trade payables 172.9 161.9 Social security and other taxes 10.9 10.3 Accrued expenses 81.9 59.6 Other payables 171.1 140.5 Total 464.0 401.8 27.
Trade and other payables non-current 2016 2015 m m Contingent consideration relating to acquired businesses 3.8 3.2 Other payables 1.2 1.0 Total 5.0 4.2 28.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum Present value lease payments of minimum lease payments 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: In one year or less 1.2 1.1 0.1 0.1 In more than one year but not more than five years 5.1 4.2 0.3 0.2 In more than five years 13.1 12.1 6.2 5.2 Total 19.4 17.4 6.6 5.5 Less: future finance charges 12.8 11.9 Present value of lease obligations 6.6 5.5 Less non-current portion 6.5 5.4 Current portion 0.1 0.1 Obligations under finance leases are US dollar denominated.
The weighted average period to maturity is 14.0 years 2015: 14.8 years and the weighted average interest rate is 18.6% 2015: 18.4%.
132 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Bank and other borrowings 2016 2015 m m Current Bank loans 0.3 0.7 Other loans 175.4 3.3 Total current 175.7 4.0 Non-current Bank loans 344.6 763.2 Other loans 826.0 425.8 Total non-current 1,170.6 1,189.0 Total 1,346.3 1,193.0 Analysis of bank and other borrowings repayable: In one year or less 175.7 4.0 In more than one year but not more than five years 577.0 1,097.2 In more than five years 593.6 91.8 Total 1,346.3 1,193.0 Analysis of bank and other borrowings: Drawn under committed facilities 1,317.2 1,172.8 Less unamortised debt issue costs 3.2 3.1 Fair value adjustment to fixed rate borrowings 19.2 18.4 Drawn under uncommitted facilities 0.8 1.1 Interest accruals 12.3 3.8 Total 1,346.3 1,193.0 Debt issue costs are amortised over the period of the facility to which they relate.
The Group has no secured borrowings.
The Group has the following committed facilities: 2016 2015 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m 2010 Senior notes USD 600.0 million 485.6 485.6 407.1 407.1 2016 Senior notes USD 600.0 million 485.6 485.6 Syndicated credit facility USD 900.0 million 346.0 382.2 728.2 358.6 252.0 610.6 Bilateral credit facilities USD 600.0 million 407.1 407.1 Total 1,317.2 382.2 1,699.4 1,172.8 252.0 1,424.8 The Group issued USD 600.0 million of loan notes to private placement investors in 2010.
The notes are in four tranches as follows: USD 200.0 million carry an interest rate of 4.62% and are due for repayment in 2017, USD 125.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.02% and are due for repayment in 2020, USD 150.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.17% and are also due for repayment in 2020 and USD 125.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.12% and are due for repayment in 2022.
During the year, the Group issued USD 600.0 million of loan notes to private placement investors to replace the two USD 300 million bilateral credit facilities which were due to mature in 2017.
The notes are in two tranches as follows: USD 300.0 million carry an interest rate of 3.31% and are due for repayment in 2023 and USD 300.0 million carry an interest rate of 3.60% and are due for repayment in 2026.
During 2014, the Group secured afive-year USD 900.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in 2021, following aone-year extension agreed during 2015 and afurther one-year extension agreed during 2016.
At 31 December 2016, the amounts drawn under the revolving credit facility were 346.0 million 2015: 358.6 million represented by borrowings denominated in US dollars of 346.0 million 2015: 312.4 million and in Euros of Nil million 2015: 46.2 million.
Borrowings under the facility are subject to interest at floating rates which are linked to LIBOR.
During the year, the Group executed a commitment offer letter from Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation for the provision of a three-year 75.0 million committed bilateral facility to commence between 1st September 2017 and 15th October 2017.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 133 29.
Bank and other borrowings continued The committed facilities available at each balance sheet date expire as follows: 2016 2015 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m In one year or less 161.9 161.9 In more than one year but not more than five years 568.6 382.2 950.8 1,088.0 252.0 1,340.0 In more than five years 586.7 586.7 84.8 84.8 Total 1,317.2 382.2 1,699.4 1,172.8 252.0 1,424.8 The Group also has various uncommitted facilities with its relationship banks.
The fair value of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2016 2015 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Current 175.7 177.2 4.0 4.0 Non-current 1,170.6 1,160.2 1,189.0 1,196.9 Total 1,346.3 1,337.4 1,193.0 1,200.9 After taking account of financial derivatives that alter the interest basis of the financial liabilities entered into by the Group, the interest rate exposure on bank and other borrowings is: As at 31 December 2016: Fixed rate borrowings Weighted Weighted average average interest rate period Floating Fixed Non-interest Total for which bearing rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 346.9 787.0 1,133.9 Swiss franc 159.3 159.3 Euro 55.5 0.8 56.3 Gross bank and other borrowings 346.9 1,001.8 0.8 1,349.5 2.8 4.7 Less unamortised debt issue costs 1.2 2.0 3.2 Bank and other borrowings 345.7 999.8 0.8 1,346.3 As at 31 December 2015: Fixed rate borrowings Weighted Weighted average average interest rate period Floating Fixed Non-interest Total for which bearing rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 839.2 244.3 1,083.5 Swiss franc 65.3 65.3 Euro 46.2 0.3 0.8 47.3 Gross bank and other borrowings 885.4 309.9 0.8 1,196.1 3.4 2.5 Less unamortised debt issue costs 2.0 1.1 3.1 Bank and other borrowings 883.4 308.8 0.8 1,193.0 The weighted average interest rate reflects the relative impact of interest rates based on the principal amounts and the duration of borrowings.
The weighted average period to maturity for non-interest bearing borrowings is 3.3 years 2015: 3.8 years.
Hedges of net investments in foreign subsidiaries The Groups bank and other borrowings as disclosed above includes 1,345.5 million designated as hedges of net investments in the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
The foreign exchange loss of 195.4 million 2015: 39.6 million on retranslation of these borrowings during the year is recognised in other comprehensive income.
134 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Financial instruments As at 31 December 2016: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 24 58.4 58.4 58.4 Derivative financial instruments see note 31 2.3 19.5 21.8 21.8 Current: Trade and other receivables 412.9 412.9 412.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 31 2.3 1.9 4.2 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents see note 25 173.8 173.8 173.8 Financial assets 4.6 21.4 645.1 671.1 671.1 Current: Trade and other payables 453.1 453.1 453.1 Derivative financial instruments see note 31 31.2 31.2 31.2 Obligations under finance leases see note 28 0.1 0.1 0.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 29 83.3 92.4 175.7 177.2 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 27 5.0 5.0 5.0 Derivative financial instruments see note 31 45.7 45.7 45.7 Obligations under finance leases see note 28 6.5 6.5 6.5 Bank and other borrowings see note 29 261.0 909.6 1,170.6 1,160.2 Financial liabilities 421.2 1,466.7 1,887.9 1,879.0 Total 416.6 21.4 645.1 1,466.7 1,216.8 1,207.9 As at 31 December 2015 As restated : Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 24 62.2 62.2 62.2 Derivative financial instruments see note 31 0.1 25.4 25.5 25.5 Current: Trade and other receivables 333.4 333.4 333.4 Derivative financial instruments see note 31 8.4 8.4 8.4 Cash and cash equivalents see note 25 147.3 147.3 147.3 Financial assets 8.5 25.4 542.9 576.8 576.8 Current: Trade and other payables 391.5 391.5 391.5 Derivative financial instruments see note 31 12.7 12.7 12.7 Obligations under finance leases see note 28 0.1 0.1 0.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 29 4.0 4.0 4.0 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 27 4.2 4.2 4.2 Derivative financial instruments see note 31 13.7 13.7 13.7 Obligations under finance leases see note 28 5.4 5.4 5.4 Bank and other borrowings see note 29 290.8 898.2 1,189.0 1,196.9 Financial liabilities 317.2 1,303.4 1,620.6 1,628.5 Total 308.7 25.4 542.9 1,303.4 1,043.8 1,051.7 Excludes prepayments and accrued income of 21.6 million 2015: 18.0 million see note 24.
Excludes social security and other taxes of 10.9 million 2015: 10.3 million see note 26.
Fair value measurement and hierarchy For trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables, obligations under finance leases and the current element offloating rate bank and other borrowings, fair values approximate to book values due to the short maturity periods of these financial instruments.
For trade and other receivables, allowances are made within book value for credit risk.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 135 30.
Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments measured at fair value, are classified as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as they have been determined using significant inputs based on observable market data.
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts have been derived from forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual forward rates.
The fair values of interest rate derivatives and the treasury lock derivative, have been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual interest rates.
The fair value of cross currency derivatives have been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date, forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date and the contractual interest and forward exchange rates.
The current and non-current portion of bank and other borrowings measured at fair value, are classified as level 3 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, asthey have been determined using significant inputs which are amixture of those based on observable market data interest rate risk and those not based on observable market data credit risk.
The fair value attributable to interest rate risk has been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual interest rates and with the credit risk margin kept constant.
The fair value attributable to credit risk has been derived from quotes from lenders for borrowings of similar amounts and maturity periods.
The same methods of valuation have been used to derive the fair value of the current and non-current element of bank and other borrowings which are held at amortised cost, but for which fair values are provided in the table above.
There were no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the year.
Financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit and loss Cumulative unrealised changes in fair value of the current and non-current portions of bank and other borrowings arising from changes in credit risk are as follows: 2016 2015 Restated m m Fair value at 1 January 3.3 5.0 Loss recognised in net operating costs 2.3 1.7 Fair value at 31 December 1.0 3.3 The difference between fair value and contractual amount at maturity of the current and non-current portion of bank and other borrowings is asfollows: 2016 2015 m m Fair value 344.3 290.8 Difference between fair value and contractual amount at maturity 20.6 19.4 Contractual amount payable at maturity 323.7 271.4 Financial liabilities classified as level 3 in the hierarchy Changes in fair value are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Bank and other borrowings at fair value through profit and loss: At 1 January 290.8 276.9 Exchange rate adjustments 52.3 14.9 Loss gain recognised in net operating costs 0.8 1.1 Loss recognised in net finance costs 0.4 0.1 At 31 December 344.3 290.8 The largest movement in credit spread seen in asix month period since inception of the borrowings is 70 basis points.
A 70 basis point movementin the credit spread used as an input in determining fair value at 31 December 2016, would impact net operating costs by approximately 7.0million.
136 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Derivative financial instruments As at 31 December 2016: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swap cash flow hedge 129.5 0.5 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 323.7 20.9 Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 214.7 1.9 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 88.4 687.2 2.7 76.9 Total 756.3 687.2 26.0 76.9 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swap cash flow hedge 129.5 0.5 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 242.8 19.0 Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 159.2 0.4 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 69.5 456.0 1.9 45.7 Non-current portion 601.0 456.0 21.8 45.7 Current portion 155.3 231.2 4.2 31.2 As at 31 December 2015: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swap cash flow hedge 108.5 0.7 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 271.4 24.8 Cross currency swap not hedge accounted 61.0 4.5 Treasury lock not hedge accounted 135.7 3.7 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 8.5 596.9 0.2 26.4 Total 585.1 596.9 33.9 26.4 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swap cash flow hedge 108.5 0.7 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 271.4 24.8 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 3.2 391.6 13.7 Non-current portion 383.1 391.6 25.5 13.7 Current portion 202.0 205.3 8.4 12.7 Credit quality of derivative financial assets The credit quality of derivative financial assets is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Moodys rating: Aa 4.9 8.2 A 21.1 25.7 Total 26.0 33.9 Interest rate swaps The total notional principal amount of outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2016 is 453.2 million 2015: 379.9 million, of which 80.9 million will expire in 2017, 129.5 million will expire in 2018, 141.6 million will expire in 2020 and 101.2 million will expire in 2022.
Thecontracts are all denominated in US dollars.
Of the notional principal amount outstanding, 129.5 million 2015: 108.5 million has the economic effect of converting floating rate US dollar borrowings into fixed rate US dollar borrowings and 323.7 million 2015: 271.4 million hasthe economic effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into floating rate US dollar borrowings.
To the extent they meet the criteria for hedge accounting, the floating rate to fixed rate swap contract is accounted for as a cash flow hedge and the fixed rate to floating rate swap contracts as fair value hedges.
Cross currency swaps The cross currency swaps have been used to synthetically convert US dollar denominated floating borrowings into Swiss franc and Euro denominated fixed borrowings to commercially hedge against Swiss franc and Euro denominated assets of foreign subsidiaries.
The cross currency swaps do not qualify to be hedgeaccounted.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 137 31.
Derivative financial instruments continued Treasury lock The treasury lock was entered into in 2015 to secure current market interest rates for specified amounts of future fixed rate funding.
It matured in 2016 and did not qualify for hedge accounting.
Foreign currency forward contracts Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition andMeasurement are not merited.
2016 2016 2015 2015 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value: US dollar forward sales USD 1.5 60.5 13.0 Forward sales denominated in other currencies 1.2 16.4 0.2 13.4 Total 2.7 76.9 0.2 26.4 32.
Provisions Environmental Provisions receivables Environmental Onerous Warranty Other Total contracts costs a b c d a m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 As restated see note 44 117.8 45.9 17.0 5.4 186.1 83.4 Exchange rate adjustments 21.3 4.3 2.3 0.4 28.3 14.3 Businesses disposed see note 43 0.2 0.2 Additional provision in year 2.7 1.3 6.6 5.6 16.2 4.7 Unused amounts reversed 7.7 0.8 2.0 10.5 2.0 Charge credit to net finance costs see notes 13 and 12 respectively 2.5 2.5 1.8 Transfer to trade and other payables 0.1 0.1 0.2 Utilised 22.6 5.6 7.0 1.6 36.8 24.8 At 31 December 2016 121.7 38.1 17.8 7.8 185.4 77.4 2016 2015 Restated m m Current 53.6 40.0 Non-current 131.8 146.1 At 31 December 2016 185.4 186.1 Amounts in respect of environmental and other provisions have been recorded in net operating costs.
Amounts in respect of onerous contracts and warranty costs have been recorded in cost of sales.
Included within unused amounts reversed for onerous contracts is 3.8 million which has been treated as an exceptional operating item see note 11. a.
Provision has been made for known exposures arising from environmental remediation in anumber of businesses.
The Groups operations and facilities are subject to laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances into the ground, air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and other environmental matters.
Failure to comply with its obligations potentially exposes the Group to serious consequences, including fines, other sanctions and limitations on operations.
The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of current and former sites for which it has been identified as apotentially responsible party under US law.
Provision has been made for the expected costs arising from these sites based on information currently available.
The provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next fifteen years and are discounted, where appropriate, using an appropriate discount rate.
Areceivable has been established to the extent these costs are recoverable under the Groups environmental insurance policies or from other parties.
Movements in the receivable are shown in the table above see also note 24. b.
Provision has been made for estimated losses under certain trading contracts.
Onerous trading contract provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next five years and are not discounted given the short period over which they will be utilised.
c. Provision has been made for product warranty claims.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the next three years.
The provisions are not discounted given the short period over which they will be utilised.
d. A number of asbestos-related claims have been made against subsidiary companies of the Group.
To date, the amount connected with such claims in any year has not been material and many claims are covered fully or partly by existing insurance and indemnities.
There is aprovision, included within other provisions, for certain claims which cannot be recovered from insurers.
The provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next ten years and are discounted, where appropriate, using adiscount rate appropriate to each provision.
138 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Deferred tax Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, are as follows: Retirement Other Total Deferred tax assets benefit obligations m m m At 1 January 2015 87.7 69.0 156.7 Exchange rate adjustments 2.7 4.3 7.0 Reclassifications 1.1 0.5 0.6 Businesses acquired as restated see note 42 16.1 16.1 Charge credit to income statement see note 14 1.6 2.9 1.3 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 9.5 0.2 9.7 Charge to equity see note 14 2.5 2.5 At 31 December 2015 As restated 78.2 90.1 168.3 Exchange rate adjustments 12.2 14.1 26.3 Reclassifications 0.2 0.2 Charge credit to income statement see note 14 2.8 6.4 3.6 Credit to other comprehensive income see note 14 20.1 0.1 20.2 Credit to equity see note 14 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2016 107.7 110.9 218.6 Includes balances arising from temporary differences in relation to provisions, accruals, share based payments, finance costs and derivative financial instruments.
Accelerated Intangible Total Deferred tax liabilities tax assets depreciation m m m At 1 January 2015 22.1 354.6 376.7 Exchange rate adjustments 1.2 19.0 20.2 Reclassifications 0.5 0.5 Businesses acquired as restated see note 42 1.6 37.8 39.4 Charge to income statement see note 14 4.2 6.7 10.9 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2015 As restated 29.1 417.7 446.8 Exchange rate adjustments 4.5 74.1 78.6 Reclassifications 0.2 0.2 Businesses disposed see note 43 0.2 0.2 Credit charge to income statement see note 14 1.6 1.7 0.1 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2016 32.0 493.3 525.3 During 2016, the Group reassessed the way in which deferred tax liabilities relating to development costs and programme participation costs are presented.
Such items are now disclosed within the Intangible assets category, previously having been reported within Other.
Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this change.
The change had no impact on balances reported after allowing for the offsets referred to below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is alegally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same tax authority.
The balances after allowing for such offsets are as follows: 2016 2015 Restated m m Deferred tax assets 15.9 0.3 Deferred tax liabilities 322.6 278.8 Net balance at 31 December 306.7 278.5 Deferred tax assets are analysed as follows: 2016 2015 m m To be recovered within one year 1.4 0.2 To be recovered after more than one year 14.5 0.1 Total 15.9 0.3 Deferred tax liabilities all fall due after more than one year.
The Group has unrecognised tax losses of 24.3 million 2015: 24.3 million for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses, as it is not regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets not recognised, would be recoverable in the event they reverse and suitable taxable profits are available.
There are no unremitted earnings in foreign subsidiaries that would give rise to atax liability in the event of those subsidiaries remitting their earnings.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 139 34.
Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The Group operates anumber of pension schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The nature of each scheme which has asignificant impact onthe financial statements is as follows: In the UK, the Group operates afunded defined benefit scheme which is closed to new members but open to future accrual for existing members: In the US, the Group operates five defined benefit schemes, all of which are closed to new members.
With two exceptions, these schemes are open to future accrual for existing members.
The schemes are amixture of funded and unfunded schemes: and In Switzerland, the Group operates afunded defined benefit scheme which is open to new members and to future accrual.
The UK and US schemes provide benefits to members in the form of aguaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The benefits provided depend on amembers length of service.
For the majority of schemes, the benefits are also dependent on salary at retirement or average salary over employment in the final years leading up to retirement.
In the US, one scheme provides afixed benefit for each year of service.
The Swiss scheme has many of the characteristics of adefined contribution scheme but provides for certain minimum benefits to be guaranteed to members.
For all funded schemes, benefit payments are made from funds administered by third parties unrelated to the Group.
The assets of such schemes are held in trust funds, or their equivalent, separate from the Groups finances.
The UK scheme is aregistered scheme and subject to the statutory scheme-specific funding requirements outlined in UK legislation, including thepayment of levies to the Pension Protection Fund.
It is established under trust and the responsibility for its governance lies with the trustees whoalso agree funding arrangements with the Group.
The funded US schemes are tax-qualified pension schemes regulated by the Pension Protection Act 2006 and are insured by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation up to certain limits.
They are established under, and governed by, the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act 1974.
Meggitt is anamed fiduciary with the authority to manage the operation of the US schemes.
The Swiss scheme is atax qualified pension plan subject to the Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors and Disability Pension Plans which constitutes alegal framework setting out the minimum requirements for occupational pension plans.
The responsibility for its governance lies with afoundation, which is similar in nature to aUK trustee board.
For all unfunded schemes, benefit payments are made by the Group as obligations fall due.
The Group also operates anumber of defined contribution schemes under which the Group has no further obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Healthcare schemes The Group has two principal other post-retirement benefit schemes providing medical and life assurance benefits to certain employees, andformer employees, of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation and Meggitt Rockmart, Inc.
Amounts recognised in the income statement 2016 2015 m m Total charge in respect of defined contribution pension schemes 30.2 23.8 Defined benefit pension schemes: Service cost 15.3 14.5 Curtailment gain see note 43 1.2 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 8.6 9.5 Total charge in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 22.7 24.0 Healthcare schemes: Service cost 0.9 0.8 Past service cost 0.3 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 2.0 1.7 Total charge in respect of healthcare schemes 2.9 2.8 Total charge 55.8 50.6 Of the total charge, 45.2 million 2015: 39.4 million has been charged to operating profit see note 9, of which 26.7 million 2015: 22.2 million has been included in cost of sales and 18.5 million 2015: 17.2 million in net operating costs.
The remaining 10.6 million 2015: 11.2 million isincluded in finance costs see note 13.
140 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Amounts recognised in the balance sheet 2016 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 829.1 483.6 54.5 1,367.2 Fair value of scheme assets 619.5 333.0 952.5 Retirement benefit obligations 209.6 150.6 54.5 414.7 2015 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 637.1 396.1 45.4 1,078.6 Fair value of scheme assets 515.0 279.1 794.1 Retirement benefit obligations 122.1 117.0 45.4 284.5 Of the total deficit of 414.7 million 2015: 284.5 million, 70.7 million 2015: 62.0 million is in respect of unfunded schemes.
Changes in the present value of retirement benefit obligations 2016 2015 Liabilities Assets Total Liabilities Assets Total m m m m m m At 1 January 1,078.6 794.1 284.5 1,078.9 761.1 317.8 Exchange rate adjustments 83.4 51.9 31.5 20.7 13.4 7.3 Service cost 16.2 16.2 15.3 15.3 Past service cost 0.3 0.3 Curtailment gain 1.2 1.2 Interest expense income see note 13 40.3 29.7 10.6 37.9 26.7 11.2 Contributions Group 51.2 51.2 39.7 39.7 Contributions members 3.2 3.2 2.9 2.9 Benefits paid 46.4 46.4 40.8 40.8 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations: Experience gain loss 11.7 11.7 11.4 11.4 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 12.2 12.2 6.3 6.3 Loss gain from change in financial assumptions 217.0 217.0 41.7 41.7 Return on schemes assets excluding amounts included in finance costs 72.4 72.4 7.2 7.2 Total remeasurement loss gain 193.1 72.4 120.7 36.6 7.2 29.4 Administrative expenses borne directly by schemes 3.6 3.6 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 1,367.2 952.5 414.7 1,078.6 794.1 284.5 Present value of schemes liabilities.
Fair value of schemes assets.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 141 34.
The schemes have no investments in any assets of the Group.
Financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities 2016 2015 UK Overseas Overseas UK Overseas Overseas pension pension healthcare pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes scheme schemes schemes Discount rate 2.65% 3.95% 3.95% 3.85% 4.20% 4.20% Inflation rate 3.30% N A N A 3.10% N A N A Increases to deferred benefits during deferment 2.30% N A N A 2.10% N A N A Increases to pensions in payment 3.20% N A N A 3.00% N A N A Salary increases 4.30% 4.51% N A 4.10% 4.66% N A Provided in respect of the most significant overseas schemes.
To the extent not overridden by specific scheme rules.
In determining the fair value of scheme liabilities, the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect the characteristics of the scheme populations.
The Groups mortality assumptions in the UK are based on recent mortality investigations of Self Administered Pension Schemes adjusted to reflect the profile of the membership of the scheme, which include the results of an analysis of members used to support the 2015 triennial UK actuarial valuation.
Allowance has been made for rates of mortality to continue to fall at the rate of 1.25% per annum.
In the US, mortality assumptions are based on the RPH-2014 headcount weighted table, for schemes where benefits are not salary-linked, and the RP-2014 table for other schemes, with both tables projecting rates of mortality to fall using the 2016 Social Security Administrations projection scale Scale SSA.
2016 2015 UK Overseas UK Overseas scheme schemes scheme schemes Years Years Years Years Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 male 23.1-24.9 21.5-22.1 23.3-25.0 21.6-22.2 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 female 26.0-27.8 23.4-23.7 26.2-28.0 23.5-23.7 Member age 65 current life expectancy male 21.7-23.2 20.2-20.8 21.9-23.4 20.3-21.0 Member age 65 current life expectancy female 24.1-25.8 22.3-22.6 24.4-26.1 22.3-22.6 Provided in respect of the most significant overseas schemes.
142 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Details on the sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in assumptions are provided below: The impact of a50 basis point reduction in discount rate would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2016 to increase by approximately 129.0million.
The impact of a10 basis point increase in inflation and salary inflation rates would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2016 to increase byapproximately 16.0 million.
The impact of assuming every scheme member were to live for an additional year would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2016 toincrease by approximately 44.0 million.
The above sensitivity analyses are based on achange in asingle assumption while keeping all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method of calculating the defined benefit obligation has been used as when calculating the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysisare consistent with the previous year.
The sensitivity provided in respect of the discount rate has been increased to 50 basis points this year, reflecting the average movement experienced over the last five years.
No change has been considered necessary to other sensitivity levels, given recent past experience.
Risks The Group is exposed to anumber of risks arising from operating its defined benefit pension and healthcare schemes, the most significant ofwhich are detailed below.
The Group has not changed the process used to manage defined benefit scheme risks during the year.
Asset volatility In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
To the extent the actual return on schemes assets is below this yield, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated by funded schemes investing in matching corporate bonds, such that changes in asset values are offset by similar changes in the value of scheme liabilities.
However, the Group also invests in other asset types such as equities, property, hedge funds, commodities and derivatives where movements in asset values may be uncorrelated to movements in the yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The Group believes that, due to the long-term nature of its scheme liabilities, it is appropriate to invest in assets which are expected to out-perform corporate bonds over this timeframe.
Scheme assets are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have amaterial impact on the overall level of assets.
In 2014, part of the equity portfolio held by the UK and US schemes was disinvested.
The amounts disinvested totalled approximately 100.0 million.
The proceeds were used to purchase structured investments consisting of high quality government bonds together with equity derivatives.
The structured investments enable the schemes to benefit from equity-like returns, subject to certain caps, on the amounts invested, whilst providing an element of protection against falls in equity markets.
The Group actively monitors how the duration and expected yield of scheme assets are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations.
For each UK and US funded scheme, there is aglide-path in place which provides, to the extent the funding position improves, for asset volatility to be reduced by increased investment in long-term index linked securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due.
Interest risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
If these yields fall, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated through the funded schemes investing in matching assets as described above.
The Group currently does not use derivatives to mitigate this risk.
Inflation risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, estimates are made as to the levels of salary inflation, inflation increases that will apply to deferred benefits during deferment and pensions in payment, and healthcare cost inflation.
To the extent actual inflation exceeds these estimates, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
Salary inflation risk is partly mitigated in both the UK and US schemes by linking benefits in respect of future service to average salaries over a period of employment rather than final salary at retirement.
Benefits in respect of certain periods of past service are still linked to final salary at retirement.
In the UK, inflation risk in respect of deferred benefits and pensions in payment is mitigated by caps on the levels of inflation under the scheme rules.
In the US and Switzerland, the schemes provide for no inflation to be applied to benefits in deferment or retirement.
Exposure to inflation on US healthcare costs has been mitigated by freezing Group contributions to medical costs at 2011 cost levels.
Longevity risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, assumptions are made as to the life expectancy of members during employment and in retirement.
To the extent life expectancy exceeds this estimate, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is more significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 143 34.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Other information In the UK, the 2015 triennial actuarial valuation was completed during 2016.
At the date of the valuation, the deficit was measured for funding purposes at 249.4 million.
The buy-out valuation at the same date, which assumes the Group were to transfer the responsibility of the scheme to an insurance company, was measured at 544.1 million.
The Group has no current plans to make such a transfer.
The Group agreed with the trustees to finance the increase in funding deficit experienced since the previous 2012 valuation, through increased annual deficit reduction payments commencing in 2016 with the aim of eliminating the scheme deficit by 2024.
Under the agreement with the trustees, deficit payments in 2017 will be 27.4 million and will increase by approximately 5% per annum until 2024.
The present value of future deficit payments agreed as part of the 2015 actuarial valuation exceeds the scheme accounting deficit at 31 December 2016 by approximately 8.0 million however, such amounts would be recoverable by the Group under the scheme rules once the last member has died and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
Following the disposal of Meggitt Defence Systems Limited see note 43, the Group agreed with the trustees to make a one-off additional payment into the UK scheme of 10.2 million which was made in December 2016.
In the US, deficit reduction payments are driven by regulations and provide for deficits to be eliminated over periods up to 15 years.
Absent any changes in legislation, deficit payments in 2017 are expected to be 6.3 million and will then increase over the following four years to 19.0million by 2021.
Thereafter, annual payments are expected to remain relatively stable for the remainder of the recovery period.
The present values of deficit payments due under legislation do not exceed the schemes deficits at 31 December 2016 and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
The Swiss scheme has asurplus on afunding basis of 22.6 million which has not been recognised in the financial statements.
The estimated total Group contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during 2017 are 49.4 million.
The weighted average duration of the UK schemes defined benefit obligation is 20.2 years.
The weighted average duration of the overseas schemes defined benefit obligation is 12.1 years.
Share capital Issued share capital Ordinary Nominal Net shares of value consideration 5p each Number m m m Allotted and fully paid: At 1 January 2015 802.3 40.1 Share buyback purchased 28.3 1.3 146.4 Share buyback transfer to treasury shares 1.5 At 31 December 2015 775.5 38.8 Issued on exercise of Sharesave awards 0.2 At 31 December 2016 775.7 38.8 144 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Share-based payment The Group operates anumber of share schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The total expense recorded in the income statement in respect of such schemes was 8.0 million 2015: 4.1 million see note 9.
The nature of each scheme which has asignificant impact on the expense recorded in the income statement is set out below.
Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 Equity-settled Under the Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014, an annual award of shares may be made to certain senior executives.
The number of shares, ifany, that an executive ultimately receives, depends on three performance conditions: An earnings per share EPS measure 33% of the award : A return on trading assets ROTA measure 33% of the award : and A strategic goals measure 33% of the award.
Each of the conditions is measured over athree year performance period.
An expense of 5.4 million 2015: 2.4 million was recorded in the year.
An employee is generally entitled to apayment at the end of the vesting period, equivalent to dividends that would have been paid during the vesting period, on any shares that vest.
The fair value of the award made in 2016 has been estimated at the market price of the share on the date of grant, which was 401.84 pence 2015: 559.10 pence.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2016 2015 Number of Number of shares shares under award under award outstanding outstanding m m At 1 January 8.0 4.2 Awarded 6.0 3.9 Lapsed 0.3 0.1 At 31 December 13.7 8.0 At 31 December 2016, none of the shares under award are eligible for release.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan Equity-settled Under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, an award of shares may be made to certain senior executives.
The number of shares, if any, that an executive ultimately receives, depends on the executive remaining in service for aspecified period of time.
There are no other significant performance conditions.
An expense of 1.8 million 2015: 1.1 million was recorded in the year.
The fair value of the awards made in 2016 were estimated at the market price of the share on the date of each grant.
The average price at the date of grant was 350.00 pence.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2016 2015 Number of Number of shares shares under award under award outstanding outstanding m m At 1 January 0.5 Awarded 0.3 0.5 Exercised 0.1 At 31 December 0.7 0.5 At 31 December 2016, none of the shares under award are eligible for release.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 145 37.
Own shares and treasury shares Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the trust formed to acquire shares to be used to satisfy share options and awards under the employee share schemes as described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 66 to 88.
At 31 December 2016, the trust held 1.4 million ordinary shares 2015: 1.9 million ordinary shares of which 1.3 million were unallocated 2015: 1.7 million, being retained by the trust for future use.
The balance was held for employees in avested share account to satisfy particular awards which had fully vested.
All shares, whether or not allocated, are held for the benefit of employees.
Theshares held at 31 December 2016 were purchased during 2015 at acost of 7.0 million.
The shares held at 31 December 2015 were purchased during 2015 at a cost of 9.7 million.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2016 was 6.5 million 2015: 7.2 million representing 0.18% of the issued share capital of the Company 2015: 0.25%.
During the Groups share buyback programme, which was suspended in 2015, 1.5 million purchased ordinary shares were not cancelled but retained as treasury shares.
Ofthese, 0.4 million shares 2015: 1.1 million shares were used to satisfy share options and awards in the year under the UK Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme.
At31 December 2016, less than 0.1 million shares 2015: 0.4 million shares remained in treasury with amarket value of 0.1 million 2015: 1.3 million, representing less than 0.01% 2015: 0.05% of the issued share capitalof the Company.
Contractual commitments Capital commitments 2016 2015 m m Contracted for but not incurred: Intangible assets 1.3 0.6 Property, plant and equipment 13.5 8.2 Total 14.8 8.8 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various factories, warehouses and offices under non-cancellable operating leases.
These leases have various lease periods, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
None of these terms represent unusual arrangements or create material onerous or beneficial rights or obligations.
Additionally the Group leases various items of plant and machinery under both cancellable and non-cancellable operating leases.
Expenditure on operating leases is charged to the income statement as incurred and is disclosed in note 8.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: 2016 2015 m m In one year or less 17.4 15.6 In more than one year but not more than five years 54.4 43.4 In more than five years 55.8 32.0 Total 127.6 91.0 Other financial commitments The Group enters into long-term arrangements with aircraft and original equipment manufacturers to design, develop and supply products to them for the life of the aircraft.
This represents asignificant long-term financial commitment for the Group and requires the consideration of anumber of uncertainties including the feasibility of the product and the ultimate commercial viability over aperiod which can extend over 40years.
The directors are satisfied that, at this time, there are no significant contingent liabilities arising from these commitments.
Based on latest OE delivery forecasts from external agencies, the future estimated expenditure under contractual commitments to incur development costs and programme participation costs at 31 December 2016, which under the Groups current accounting polices prior to any impact the adoption of IFRS 15 may have on the future accounting for certain programme participation costs, are expected to be recognised as intangible assets when incurred are as follows: 2016 2016 2015 2015 Development Programme Development Programme costs participation costs participation costs costs m m m m In one year or less 51.8 43.5 38.7 49.4 In more than one year but not more than five years 17.4 220.2 10.5 209.5 In more than five years 3.4 1,051.0 8.6 909.1 Total 72.6 1,314.7 57.8 1,168.0 146 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
Contingent liabilities The Company has given guarantees in respect of credit facilities for certain of its subsidiaries, some property leases, other leasing arrangements and the performance by some current and former subsidiaries of certain contracts.
Also, there are similar guarantees given by certain other Group companies.
The directors do not believe that the effect of giving these guarantees will have amaterial adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
Cash inflow from operations 2016 2015 m m Profit for the year 171.2 182.1 Adjustments for: Finance income see note 12 2.0 2.7 Finance costs see note 13 40.2 29.1 Tax see note 14 24.3 28.1 Depreciation see note 21 41.3 33.5 Amortisation see notes 19 and 20 162.1 121.0 Impairment loss see note 19 3.3 6.4 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.4 Gain on disposal and closure of businesses see note 10 40.7 1.2 Remeasurement of fair value of contingent consideration receivable see note 10 0.3 2.5 Financial instruments see note 10 66.4 4.8 Share of profit after tax of joint venture see note 22 1.2 Retirement benefit obligation deficit payments 35.0 24.4 Share-based payment expense see note 36 8.0 4.1 Changes in working capital: Inventories 12.5 14.6 Trade and other receivables 31.3 55.8 Trade and other payables 11.3 27.3 Provisions 31.5 40.1 Cash inflow from operations 375.6 406.7 41.
Movements in net debt 2016 2015 Restated see note 44 m m At 1 January 1,051.2 575.5 Free cash inflow 131.1 199.0 Businesses acquired see note 42 2.1 362.7 Business acquisition expenses 1.6 2.5 Businesses disposed see note 43 59.6 2.0 Business disposal expenses 0.3 Dividends paid to Companys shareholders see note 16 113.0 111.1 Purchase of own shares 9.7 Share buyback purchased see note 35 146.4 Net cash generated inflow outflow 77.9 431.4 Debt acquired with businesses see note 42 4.4 Exchange rate adjustments 195.4 39.6 Other non-cash movements 10.4 0.3 At 31 December 1,179.1 1,051.2 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 147 41.
Movements in net debt continued Analysed as: 2016 2015 Restated m m Bank and other borrowings current see note 29 175.7 4.0 Bank and other borrowings non-current see note 29 1,170.6 1,189.0 Obligations under finance leases current see note 28 0.1 0.1 Obligations under finance leases non-current see note 28 6.5 5.4 Cash and cash equivalents see note 25 173.8 147.3 Total 1,179.1 1,051.2 42. Business combinations IFRS 3 requires fair values of assets and liabilities acquired to be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
During 2016, the Group finalised the fair values of the assets and liabilities of the advanced composites businesses of Cobham plc Advanced Composites which completed on 25 November 2015 and of EDAC Composites LLC EDAC which completed on 21 December 2015.
Changes were made as necessary to align the accounting policies of the acquired businesses with those of the Group.
The adjustments made in finalising fair values primarily relate to the recognition of intangible assets separately from goodwill, obligations in respect of onerous production contracts and associated deferred tax liabilities.
Additionally, with regards to EDAC, it was determined that one of the businesses acquired met the criteria to be treated as a joint venture and accounted for using the equity method.
Goodwill is attributable to the profitability of the acquired businesses and expected future synergies arising following their acquisition.
Thetotal amount of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisitions thatis deductible for tax purposes is Nil.
Fair values as at the date of each acquisition are shown below: As Adjustments Fair reported value Advanced Composites m m m Goodwill see note 18 102.8 8.7 94.1 Other intangible assets see note 20 1.0 49.8 50.8 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 12.3 0.3 12.0 Trade and other receivables non-current 2.3 2.3 Inventories 20.8 10.4 10.4 Trade and other receivables current 10.6 1.4 9.2 Current tax recoverable 1.7 1.7 Trade and other payables current 9.5 2.9 12.4 Current tax liabilities 0.6 0.6 Bank and other borrowings current 4.1 4.1 Provisions current 4.0 4.0 Deferred tax liabilities see note 33 0.6 2.3 2.9 Provisions non-current 0.6 25.7 26.3 Net assets 132.1 1.3 130.8 Total consideration payable satisfied in cash 132.1 1.3 130.8 Adjustments relate to finalisation of fair values and alignment with the Groups accounting policies.
148 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 42. Business combinations continued As Adjustments Fair reported value EDAC m m m Goodwill see note 18 158.0 41.1 116.9 Other intangible assets see note 20 47.4 59.5 106.9 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 9.6 1.2 8.4 Investments see note 22 11.3 11.3 Trade and other receivables non-current 1.0 1.0 Inventories 16.9 3.0 13.9 Trade and other receivables current 12.7 2.8 9.9 Current tax recoverable 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables current 11.5 3.2 8.3 Bank and other borrowings current 2.2 1.9 0.3 Deferred tax liabilities see note 33 20.4 20.4 Provisions non-current 8.9 8.9 Net assets 231.0 0.6 230.4 Total consideration payable satisfied in cash 231.0 0.6 230.4 Adjustments relate to finalisation of fair values and alignment with the Groups accounting policies.
It includes the elimination of assets and liabilities of the business which it has been determined should be accounted for using the equity method.
The assets and liabilities eliminated are not significantly different to those at 31 December 2015 disclosed in note 22.
The adjustments to consideration in respect of Advanced Composites and EDAC of 1.3 million and 0.6 million respectively, relate to agreement of final working capital adjustments in respect of the acquired businesses.
These amounts were received by the Group in cash in 2016.
Total consideration received paid in respect of acquisitions was as follows: 2016 2015 m m In respect of Advanced Composites 1.4 132.1 In respect of EDAC 0.7 231.0 In respect of an acquisition in prior years 0.4 Total 2.1 362.7 The amounts received during the year differ from those recorded at the date of acquisition due to the effect of exchange rate movements.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 149 43. Business disposals On 21 December 2016, the Group disposed of 100% of the ordinary shares of Meggitt Defence Systems Ltd and Meggitt Training Systems Canada Inc, collectively Meggitt Target Systems for an initial consideration of 58.6 million which is subject to an adjustment for the working capital in the businesses at the date of disposal.
Meggitt Target Systems was engaged in the provision of unmanned target packages for weapon simulation and training programmes.
The businesses, which were not a major line of business or geographical area of operation of the Group, were no longer considered core to the Groups operations.
The net assets of Meggitt Target Systems at the date of disposal were as follows: Total m Goodwill see note 18 2.6 Other intangible assets see note 20 0.1 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 1.9 Inventories 8.6 Trade and other receivables current 6.9 Current tax recoverable 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 Trade and other payables current 3.7 Current tax liabilities 0.8 Provisions current see note 32 0.2 Deferred tax liabilities see note 33 0.2 Net assets 17.8 Currency translation gain transferred from equity 0.5 Curtailment gain see note 34 1.2 Business disposal expenses 1.8 Gain on disposal see note 10 40.7 Total consideration received in cash 58.6 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Total consideration received in cash 58.6 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 1.5 Businesses disposed 57.1 Less: business disposal expenses paid 0.3 Total cash inflow 56.8 Total consideration received in respect of disposed businesses was as follows: 2016 2015 m m In respect of Meggitt Target Systems 57.1 In respect of a business disposed of in prior years 2.5 2.0 Total 59.6 2.0 150 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 44.
Restatement of prior year comparatives As described in note 42, the fair values of the assets and liabilities of Advanced Composites and EDAC were finalised during 2016.
IFRS 3 requires fair value adjustments to be recorded with effect from the date of acquisition and consequently result in the restatement of previously reported financial results.
The impact on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 is shown below: 2015 As Advanced EDAC Total Other As Reported Composites Adjustments adjustments Restated 31 December Adjustments as at 31 December acquisition m m m m m m Goodwill 1,866.0 8.7 41.1 49.8 0.7 1,815.5 Other intangible assets 689.1 49.8 59.5 109.3 1.6 800.0 Property, plant and equipment 290.3 0.3 1.2 1.5 288.8 Investments 11.3 11.3 0.1 11.4 Trade and other receivables non-current 58.9 2.3 1.0 3.3 62.2 Inventories 415.2 10.4 3.0 13.4 0.2 401.6 Trade and other receivables current 353.7 1.4 2.8 4.2 1.9 351.4 Current tax recoverable 5.5 1.7 0.1 1.6 1.6 5.5 Cash and cash equivalents 145.4 1.9 147.3 Trade and other payables current 402.1 2.9 3.2 0.3 401.8 Current tax liabilities 37.3 0.6 - 0.6 1.6 35.1 Bank and other borrowings current 4.0 1.9 1.9 1.9 4.0 Provisions current 36.0 4.0 4.0 40.0 Deferred tax liabilities 255.8 2.3 20.4 22.7 0.3 278.8 Provisions non-current 111.0 25.7 8.9 34.6 0.5 146.1 Other net liabilities - not affected by restatement 799.4 799.4 Net assets 2,178.5 1.3 0.6 1.9 1.9 2,178.5 Represents the impact of exchange rate movements on the Advanced Composites and EDAC adjustments from the date of acquisition to the balance sheet date and other reclassifications.
The Group has not restated the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2015, as the impact on underlying profit and statutory profit was not significant.
Information about related undertakings In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries and equity accounted investments as at 31 December 2016 is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, ownership comprises ordinary shares representing 100% of the issued share capital and the registered office is Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, BH23 6EW.
No subsidiary undertakings have been excluded from the consolidation.
Aircraft Braking Systems Europe Limited Cavehurst Finance Ireland Unlimited Subsidiaries directly owned 7 Company Ireland Aircraft Braking Systems Services Limited Avica Limited Gorse Valley, Tipperkevin, Ballymore 4 Alston Properties LLC USA Dunlop Aerospace Limited Eustace, CoKildare 14600 Myford Road, Irvine, California 92606 Integrated Target Services Limited Cavehurst Limited Artus SAS France KDG Holdings Limited Chempix Limited 37 Chemin du Champ des Martyrs, BP 20009, 49241 Meggitt Pamphill Limited Avrill Cedex Dunlop Aerospace Group Limited 5 Meggitt Wimborne Limited Artus Vietnam Co Ltd Vietnam Dunlop Aerospace Holdings Limited #7-9, Road 16A, Industrial Zone 2 of Bienhoa, Meggitt Engineering Limited Dunlop Aerospace Overseas Investments Bienhoa, Dong Nai Province Meggitt International Holdings Limited Limited Atlantic House Pension Trustee Limited Meggitt Pension Trust Limited Dunlop Aerospace Overseas Limited 4 Aviation Mobility, LLC USA Dunlop Holdings Limited Negretti & Zambra Limited 8041 Arrowridge Boulevard, Suite A, Charlotte, Dunlop Limited Negretti Limited NorthCarolina 28273 1 Endevco U. K. Limited Phoenix Travel Dorset Limited 6 BAJ Coatings Limited Endevco Vertriebs GmbH Germany The Microsystems Group Limited Bells Engineering Limited Kaiserleistrae 51, 63067 Offenbach Main Bestobell Aviation Products Limited 8 Erlanger Acquisition Corporation USA Subsidiaries indirectly owned Bestobell Engineering Products Limited 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 2 ABL Systems USA Bestobell Insulation Limited 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 Europeenne fide Conception dEtudes Bestobell Meterflow Limited Technologiques SAS France Aero-Tech Composites fide Mexico, 3 Bestobell Mobrey Limited 8 Chemin fide lEtang, BP 15, F-16730 FLEAC S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Carretera a Zacatecas 5570-1, Parque Industrial Evershed & Vignoles Limited Bestobell Service Co Limited Amistad Sur, Saltillo, CA 250701 Bestobell Sparling Limited STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 151 45.
Group Companies continued 8 Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Kentucky Meggitt-USA, Inc. USA Subsidiaries indirectly owned 8 Corporation USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 continued 190 Corporate Drive, Danville, Kentucky 40422 Metal Maps Limited Fotomechanix Limited Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Queretaro, Micro Metallic Limited 4 GB Aero Engine LLC USA 3 S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Microponent Development Limited 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Carretera Estatal 200 , 9 KM22547 Interior A, Parque Aeroespacial, Microponents Plates Limited Heatric Limited Queretaro, CP 76278 Microponents Limited King Tool International Limited Meggitt Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Singapore 4 Miller Insulation & Engineering Limited Linear Motion LLC USA 1A Seletar Aerospace Link, Singapore 797552 8 628 N. Hamilton Street, Saginaw, Michigan 48602 Nasco Aircraft Brake, Inc. USA Meggitt Brasil Solucoes fide Engenharia Ltda.
8 13300 Estrella Avenue, Gardena, California 90248 Meggitt Baltimore Inc. USA 10 Brazil 4 3310 Carlins Park Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 21215 OECO, LLC USA Avenida Joo Cabral fide Mello Neto, No.
850, Suites 815 4607 SE International Way, Milwaukie, Oregon 97222 Meggitt Canford Limited and 816, Barra da Tijuca, CEP 22.775-057, City and 8 Pacific Scientific Company USA Meggitt Colehill Limited State of Rio fide Janeiro 1785 Voyager Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 8 4 Meggitt Erlanger, LLC USA Meggitt Defense Systems, Inc. USA 8 Park Chemical Company USA 9801 Muirlands Boulevard, Irvine, California 92618 1400 Jamike Avenue, Erlanger, Kentucky 41018 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Meggitt Filtration & Transfer Limited Meggitt France SAS France 4 Piezotech, LLC USA 8 Chemin fide lEtang, BP 15, F-16730 FLEAC Meggitt Finance Beta 8431 Georgetown Road, Suite 300, Indianapolis, Meggitt Hurn Limited Meggitt Finance Limited Indiana46268 8 Meggitt Maryland, Inc. USA Meggitt Finance S. a. r. l Luxembourg Piher International GmbH Germany 20511 Seneca Meadows Parkway, Germantown, 20 Rue des Peupliers, L-2328 Orchideenstrasse 6, 90542 Eckental Maryland 20876 Meggitt GmbH Germany Piher International Limited 8 Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. USA Kaiserleistrae 51, 63067 Offenbach Main Piher Sensors & Controls SA Spain 12838 Saticoy Street, North Hollywood, 8 Meggitt GP Inc. USA Poligono Industrial Municipal, Vial Transversal California91605 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93065 2, s n31500 Tudela, Navarra 8 Meggitt Orange County, Inc. USA 8 Meggitt Holdings France SNC France Precision Engine Controls Corporation USA 14600 Myford Road, Irvine, California 92606 37 Chemin du Champ des Martyrs, BP 20009, 49241 11661 Sorrento Valley Road, San Diego, California 8 Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. USA Avrill Cedex 92121 669 Goodyear Street, Rockmart, Georgia 30153 8 Meggitt Holdings USA Inc. USA Precision Micro Limited 8 Meggitt San Diego, Inc. USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93065 8 Securaplane Technologies, Inc. USA 10540 Heater Court, San Diego, California 92121 12 Meggitt India Pvt Ltd India 12350 N. Vistoso Park Road, Oro Valley, Arizona 85755 Meggitt Sensorex SAS France 901, Brigade Road, No.
HMT Main Road, HMT Serck Aviation Limited 196 Rue Louis Rustin, BP 63108, F-74166 Township, North Bangalore 560022 ArchampsCedex Sparkleglen Limited Meggitt International Limited Meggitt Shapwick Limited Target Technology Petrel Limited Meggitt Investments Limited 8 Meggitt Simi Valley, Inc. USA Techniques et Fabrications Electroniques 8 Meggitt-Oregon, Inc. USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 SAS France 2010 Lafayette Avenue, McMinnville, Oregon 97128 Zone Actisud, 18 rue Jean Perrin, 31100 Toulouse Meggitt Tarrant Limited 13 Meggitt Properties PLC 8 The Rotameter Manufacturing Co Limited Meggitt Troy, Inc. USA 4 Meggitt Queretaro LLC USA 3 Industrial Drive, Troy, Indiana 47588 Tri-scan Limited 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 15 Meggitt UK Limited Valley Association Corporation USA 14 Meggitt SA Switzerland 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 Meggitt Xiamen Sensors & Controls Co Rte fide Moncor 4, PO Box 1616, CH-1701 Fribourg 10 Limited China Vibro-Meter Limited 8 Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. USA No.
230 South 5 Gaoqi Road, Xiamen Area of China Vibro-Meter S. a. r. l Switzerland 1785 Voyager Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Fujian Pilot Free Trade Zone 361006 Rte fide Moncor 4, PO Box 1616, CH-1701 Fribourg 8 Meggitt Training Systems Quebec Inc. Canada Meggitt A S Denmark Wallaby Grip Australia Pty Ltd in liquidation 6140 Henri Bourassa West, Montreal, Quebec, H4R3A6 Porthusvej 4, 3490 Kvistgaard Australia Meggitt Training Systems Australia Pty Limited 11 Meggitt Acquisition Erlanger, Inc. USA Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell Street, Australia 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Sydney, New South Wales 2000 Unit 2, 48 Conrad Place, Lavington, New South Meggitt Acquisition France SAS France Wallaby Grip Industries Australia Pty Limited Wales2641 37 Chemin du Champ des Martyrs, BP 20009, 49241 in liquidation Australia Meggitt Training Systems Europe BV Avrill Cedex Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell Street, TheNetherlands Sydney, New South Wales 2000 Meggitt Acquisition Limited Ringweistraat 7, 4181CL Waardenburg Wallaby Grip Limited 8 Meggitt Advanced Composites Limited Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. USA 16 Whittaker Aerospace 296 Brogdon Road, Suwanee, Georgia 30024 Meggitt Aerospace Asia Pacific Pte Limited 8 Singapore Whittaker Corporation USA Meggitt Training Systems Limited 1A Seletar Aerospace Link, Singapore 797552 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Meggitt Training Systems Pte Limited 8 Meggitt Aerospace Holdings Limited Whittaker Development Co. USA Singapore 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 1A Seletar Aerospace Link, Singapore 797552 Meggitt Aerospace Limited 4 Meggitt-USA Holdings LLC USA Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation 8 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 USA 8 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 Meggitt-USA Services, Inc. USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 152 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 45.
Group Companies continued Subsidiaries indirectly owned Equity accounted investments Notes continued 17 1 Parkway-HS, LLC USA O wnership held as ordinary B shares 50% 8 2 1400 Jamike Avenue, Erlanger, Kentucky 41018 Whittaker Ordnance, Inc. USA O wnership held as ordinary shares 50% 3 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Parkway-Hamilton Sundstrand Mexico S. fide O wnership held as quota interest 100% 8 18 4 R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Whittaker Technical Products, Inc. USA O wnership held as membership interest Carretera 54 a Zacatecas SN, Colonia Las Teresitas, 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 100% Saltillo, Coahuila, CP 25084 5 O wnership held as owners capital 100% Zambra Legal Pty Limited Australia 6 Suite 2, Level 11, 60 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, O wnership held as deferred shares NewSouth Wales 2000 Registered charity 55.55% and ordinary shares 44.45% 7 Private unlimited company Evershed & Ayrton Fund 8 Ownership held as common stock 100% 9 O wnership held as ordinary A shares 60% Private company limited by guarantee and ordinary B shares 40% without share capital 10 Ownership held as registered capital Meggitt Pension Plan Trustees Limited 100% 11 Ownership held as class A shares 67.5%, class B shares 12.5% and class C shares 20% 12 Ownership held as equity shares 100% 13 Public limited company 14 Ownership held as bearer shares 100% 15 O wnership held as ordinary shares 33% 16 P rivate unlimited company 17 J oint venture with Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation ownership held as membership interest 70% 18 Subsidiary of Parkway-HS, LLC ownership held as quota interest 99.97%
