16 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OPERATIONS EXCELLENCE Managing the future Weve been securing positions that will provide a strong order backlog for many years.
We are confident in delivering these programmes through our solid foundation of operations excellence enabled by MPS.
Financial benefit During the Bronze stage, sites deliver improvements Transparency in inventory and productivity.
Through Daily Layered Accountability DLA we are delivering a culture that fosters complete transparency from the shop floor to the general managers office.
Never missing a beat Great operational performance allows the sales and marketing team to be on the front foot.
That enables us to bring new business ideas to the meeting Across all functions room, rather than excuses and MPS enables all functions to connect workaround plans.
and align, allowing everyone to focus onwhat really makes an impact in delivering promises to customers.
First class business MPS enables sites to keep strategic objectives front and centre of every management conversation, constantly reviewing progress and iterating it where needed based on good insight.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 17 The Avionics team: Collaboration between functions enables Excellence room: The Business Development Excellence Room is integratedteams to deliver smart solutions to our customers.
not only linked to the shop floor, where electronic DLA boards are now universal, but also to excellence rooms for programme management and engineering.
fter four years of focusing on making our factories better, byimproving quality and delivery, we are now seeing our Afirst sites move into the latter stages of the Meggitt factories Production System MPS.
The first site to complete the Bronze stage is Meggitt Avionics part of Meggitt Sensing Systems in Fareham.
This site shows what is possible when MPS moves from a focus onoperations improvement at the factory level, towards delivering enhanced financial performance by improving and integrating functions.
Visiting the site the evidence of this shift is clear, with engineering, finance and business development all working in collaboration with Excellence Rooms, where you can see how data flows through and between functions.
Through MPS, Meggitt Avionics has now become what customers really like: a non-issue supplier, where the focus of the team is about managing the future for growth and not trying to smooth over the issues of the past.
Transparency and the involvement of all the members of management as a team iswhat the process is all about.
It works because of the rigour that DLA imposes on it.
And it is that constant rigourattention to detailthat gets stuff done.
Meggitt Avionics has secured landmark winsfor its new generation secondary flightdisplay on the new Boeing 777X and airdataattitude heading reference system ADAHRS on the Airbus Helicopters H125and H130 platforms.
Louis Chavez, Director of Meggitt Production Systems
