JPM Mercantile pp61 66 05 04 2016 16:18 Page 64 Shareholder Information continued Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value Glossary of Terms and Denitions NAV per share Return on Net Assets If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value to is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The opposite of bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment Company were reinvested into the shares of the Company at the trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have Fair Value been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet date are The fair value of the Companys debentures is calculated using a deducted from the NAV per share when calculating the return on net discounted cash flow technique which applies the yield from a assets.
similarly dated gilt to the debentures issued by the Company and adds to that a margin based on the 5 year average for the Return to Shareholders AA Barclays Sterling Corporate Bond spread.
Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to mid-market For the 175 million debenture, the Company takes the yield on price basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, 4.75% Treasury Gilt 07 12 2030.
For the 3.85 million perpetual without transaction costs, into the shares of the Company at the debenture, the Company applies the yield on 3.50% War Loan.
time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
The margin applied on the 5 year average for the AA Barclays Benchmark Return Sterling Corporate Bond spread at 31st January 2016 was 1.18%.
Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Performance Attribution were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of the Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance underlying companies at time the shares were quoted relative to its benchmark.
Performance Attribution Definitions: The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment Asset Allocation universe.
The Companys investment strategy does not track this Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the index and consequently, there may be some divergence between benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
Stock Selection Ongoing Charges Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser The Ongoing Charges represent the Companys management fee extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs payable, securities which are not included in the benchmark.
expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net assets during the year and is calculated in accordance with guidance Cost of Gearing Effect issued by the Association of Investment Companies.
Measures the impact on relative performance arising from the cost of borrowings.
Gearing Net Cash Gearing represents the excess amount above shareholders funds Cash Effect of total assets expressed as a percentage of the shareholders Measures the impact on relative performance arising from holding funds.
Total assets include total investments and net current cash balances.
assets liabilities less cash cash equivalents and excluding bank loans of less than one year.
If the amount calculated is negative, this is shown as a net cash position.
64 JPM Mercantile pp61 66 05 04 2016 16:18 Page 65 Shareholder Information continued Effect of Management Fee Other Expenses Leverage The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative Directive AIFMD, leverage is any method which increases the performance.
Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys Interest Expense cost of debenture exposure and its net asset value and is calculated on a gross and a The payment of interest has a negative effect on relative commitment method, in accordance with the AIFMD.
gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions without taking into account any hedging and netting Repurchase of shares for cancellation arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is Measures the effect on relative performance of repurchasing and calculated after certain hedging and netting positions are offset cancelling the Companys own shares at a price which is less than against each other.
the net asset value per share.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 65 JPM Mercantile pp61 66 05 04 2016 16:18 Page 66 Shareholder Information continued Alternatively you can invest through an Investment Professional Where to buy J. P. Morgan Investment e. g. a Financial Adviser on the following 3rd party platforms: Trusts Ascentric Nucleus Avalon Praemium Savings Plan Axa Elevate Transact The Company participates in the J. P. Morgan Investment Trusts Novia Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments Please note that these websites are third party websites and and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary J. P. Morgan Asset Management does not endorse or recommend shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the Savings any of them.
This list is not exhaustive and is subject to change.
Plan should call J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on Please observe each sites privacy and cookie policies as well as 0800 20 40 20 or visit its website at am.
co. uk their platform charges structure.
Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA You can also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, wealth managers and banks.
The Companys shares are eligible investments within J. P. Morgans Stocks & Shares ISA.
For the 2015 16 tax year, from 6th April 2015 To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and ending 5th April 2016, the total ISA allowance is 15,240. adviser charging and commission rules, visit www.
Details are available from J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or via its website at am.
co. uk There are a number of ways that you can buy shares in investment trust companies: you can invest through J. P. Morgan Online or on the following Fund supermarkets: AJ Bell James Brearley Alliance Trust Savings James Hay Barclays Stockbrokers Stocktrade Charles Stanley Direct TD Direct Halifax Share Dealing Service The Share Centre Hargreaves Lansdown Tilney Bestinvest Interactive Investor Transact Financial Conduct Authority In association with: Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
Report a scam How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA 6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with not have contact details on the Register or you FCA using the share fraud reporting form at an offer to buy or sell shares.
are told they are out of date.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
2 Do not get into a conversation, note the name 7 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at of the person and firm contacting you and then www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on end the call.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an 3 Check the Financial Services Register from unauthorised firm you will not have access to the If you have already paid money to share fraudsters www.
uk to see if the person and firm Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
9 4 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an Think about getting independent financial and 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct authorised firm, copying its website or giving professional advice before you hand over any you false contact details.
Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000 5 10 Use the firms contact details listed on the Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it Register if you want to call it back.
