JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 34 Governance continued Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also Statement of Directors Responsibilities responsible for preparing a Directors Report and Directors The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those the accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors pages 22 and 23 confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge, have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give Company law the Directors must not approve the financial a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and statements unless they are satisfied that taken as a whole, the net return or loss of the Company.
annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable, The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual report and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable Companys position and performance, business model and and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess strategy and that they give a true and fair view of the state of the strategy and business model of the Company.
affairs of the Company and of the total return or loss of the Company for that period.
In order to provide these confirmations, The Board also confirms that it is satisfied that the Strategic and in preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the required to: development and performance of the business, and the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties select suitable accounting policies and then apply them that it faces.
consistently: The Financial Statements are published on the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and www.
co. uk website, which is maintained by the prudent: Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of the website state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been maintained by the Manager is, so far as it relates to the Company, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and the responsibility of the Manager.
The work carried out by the explained in the financial statements: and Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will since they were initially presented to the website.
The accounts are continue in business prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys For and on behalf of the Board transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Hamish Leslie Melville financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure Chairman that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 6th April 2016 Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
