Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DIRECTORS Responsibilities Statement The Directors are responsible for Neither the Company nor the Directors The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records accept and they hereby exclude any preparing the Annual Report and the that are sufficient to show and explain liability to any person in relation to this Group and Company financial statements the Companys transactions and disclose report except to the extent that such in accordance with applicable law with reasonable accuracy at any time the liability is imposed by law and may not and regulations.
financial position of the Company and be validly excluded.
enable them to ensure that its financial The Directors are required to prepare statements comply with the Companies The Board confirms to the best of its Group and parent Company financial Act 2006.
They have general responsibility knowledge that: statements for each financial year.
For for taking such steps as are reasonably The Group financial statements this purpose, the Company is the parent open to them to safeguard the assets contained in this report which have Company of the Group.
The Group of the Group and to prevent and been prepared in accordance with financial statements are required to be detect fraud and other irregularities.
Adopted IFRS, when taken as a whole, prepared in accordance with International give a true and fair view of the assets, Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Under applicable law and regulations, liabilities, financial position and profit by the EU Adopted IFRS and applicable the Directors are also responsible for of the Group.
The Company has elected to prepare preparing a Strategic Report, Directors The Company financial statements the Company financial statements in Report, Directors Remuneration Report which have been prepared in accordance with UK Accounting and Corporate Governance Statement accordance with applicable UK Standards including FRS 101 that complies with that law and Accounting Standards, give a true Reduced Disclosure Framework.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
The Directors must not approve the The Directors are responsible for The Directors Report and the other financial statements unless they are the maintenance and integrity of the sections of this report referred to satisfied that they give a true and fair corporate and financial information therein together represent a fair view of the state of affairs of the Group included on the Companys website.
review of the strategy, development and Company and of the profit or loss of Legislation in the UK governing the and performance of the business and the Group and Company for that period.
preparation and dissemination of the position of the Group together In preparing each of the Group and financial statements may differ from with a description of the principal Company financial statements, the legislation in other jurisdictions.
risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies Having taken advice from the and then apply them consistently.
Audit Committee, the Remuneration Nick Varney Make judgements and estimates Committee and the Health, Safety and Chief Executive Officer that are reasonable and prudent.
Security Committee as well as from 1 March 2017 For the Group financial statements, its legal and other professional advisers, state whether they have been the Board considers the Annual Report prepared in accordance with and Financial Statements, taken as Anne-Francoise Nesmes Adopted IFRS.
a whole, to be fair, balanced and Chief Financial Officer For the Company financial statements, understandable and that it provides 1 March 2017 state whether applicable UK the information necessary for Accounting Standards have been shareholders to assess the Groups followed, subject to any material position and performance, business departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
