ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
The Groups Board of Directors sets the Groups risk appetite and policy for managing liquidity risk and delegates responsibility for oversight of the implementation of this policy to the Asset and Liability Management Committee ALCO.
The Treasury function manages the Groups liquidity position on a day-to-day basis under the oversight of the CFO and ALCO.
The Groups approach is to ensure that it can meet payments as they fall due both in normal conditions and in the event of a severe liquidity stress, and that it can survive a severe liquidity stress event and continue as a going concern.
The key elements of the Groups liquidity strategy are as follows: building a franchise that has a stable deposit funding base, free of short-term unsecured wholesale funding: maintaining, at all times, a stock of liquid assets that are of sufficient quality and quantity so as to be able to withstand the Groups liquidity stress scenarios: monitoring liquidity risk exposures on an ongoing basis under a variety of market-wide and idiosyncratic liquidity stress scenarios: and maintaining a diversified funding base.
Expected maturity dates of the Groups financial instruments do not differ significantly from the contract dates except for retail deposits.
These are repayable on demand or at short notice on a contractual basis.
In practice, however, these instruments provide long-term stable funding for the Groups operations and liquidity needs because of the stable deposit nature of the Groups business model.
The tables below set out the maturity structure of the Groups financial instruments, which categorises liabilities by their earliest possible contractual maturity date: this differs from the behavioural maturity characteristics of the deposit base in both normal and stressed conditions, as the behavioural maturity is much longer than the contractual maturity.
