ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF METRO BANK PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: the Metro Bank PLC Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups loss and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU : the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2016: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and Company cash flow statements for the year then ended: the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law, and as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 2.0 million, which represents 5% of the average loss before tax for the last three years.
Using an averaging method in place of a single years result provides a more representative materiality threshold due to variation in results experienced during the period.
Profit or loss before tax is a key performance indicator for the Group and a key measure for the primary users of the financial statements.
Audit scope The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
The Group is composed of three operating entities: Metro Bank PLC, SME Invoice Finance Limited and SME Asset Finance Limited.
We performed audit procedures over reporting entities considered financially significant in the context of the Group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific account balances, using the materiality level set out above.
We also performed other audit procedures including testing information technology general controls and controls over key outsourced functions, to mitigate the risk of material misstatement.
Areas of focus The areas of focus for our audit comprised: impairment losses on loans and advances to customers: recognition of revenue on loans: and recognition of deferred tax asset in respect of trading tax losses.
