ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2016 CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 3.
Additional criteria for Executive Director remuneration Executive Directors are remunerated broadly in line with the same structures that apply across the wider employee population.
The performance conditions for variable pay awards are similar to those for all colleagues.
Changes to policy As this is the first Remuneration policy of Metro Bank to be approved by shareholders, there is no policy against which changes in this policy can be identified.
Approach to remuneration when recruiting Executive Directors When appointing a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee seeks to align the remuneration package for the individual with Metro Banks Remuneration policy and takes into account the package as a whole.
The Committee has the flexibility to make compensatory awards to new Executive Directors, to compensate the Executive Director for benefits they may lose as a result of joining Metro Bank.
These awards: will be made up of the same inputs as the normal variable compensation for Metro Bank colleagues and Executive Directors: consider the value, at the time of grant, of the awards being lost: will be in a similar form as the awards which are being lost, where possible: vest over a similar or longer time period than the awards being lost: and are subject to comparable service and performance conditions and continued employment.
The limit on variable remuneration described on page 54 will not apply to these compensatory awards.
The flexibility to offer a higher level of variable remuneration to new recruits is required to give the Company flexibility when negotiating with potential new recruits.
We may also choose to pay allowances to enable us to hire someone who will need to live away from home in order to be employed by us which may include assistance with childrens education, periodic trips home, spouse and childrens travel amongst others.
Illustration of application of Remuneration policy The graphs below illustrate the total remuneration for 2017 for each Executive Director in office at the end of 2016 based on this policy the first year in which this policy will apply for minimum fixed only remuneration, on-target and maximum.
Fixed element is: base salary pension contribution of 10% benefits as outlined in the policy table for which we have assumed a value of 1.5% of salary Minimum fixed only, on-target and maximum potential annual variable remuneration that may be awarded: Craig Donaldson CEO Mike Brierley CFO 000 000 Maximum Maximum 750 1,300 On-target On-target 375 650 Minimum Minimum 418 418 418 725 725 725 Fixed On-target Maximum Fixed On-target Maximum Fixed Variable pay Fixed Variable pay Notes 1 These illustrations are based on salaries as at April 2017 and consider the cash amount of annual variable remuneration before conversion into Share Awards as described on page 54.
No account is taken of the effect of share price changes or dividends on the value received from Share Awards or shares received under them.
