ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies 1.1 General information Metro Bank PLC the Company together with its subsidiaries the Group provides retail and corporate banking services in the UK and is a public limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number 6419578.
The address of the registered office is One Southampton Row, London WC1B 5HA.
Metro Bank was admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock exchange on 10 March 2016.
1.2 Basis of preparation The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and the Company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, Metro Bank has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
1.3 Cash flow statement The consolidated statement of cash flows shows the changes in cash and cash equivalents arising during the year from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities.
The cash flows from operating activities are determined by using the indirect method.
Net income is therefore adjusted by non-cash items, such as measurement gains or losses, changes in provisions, impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, as well as changes from receivables and liabilities.
In addition, all income and expenses from cash transactions that are attributable to investing or financing activities are eliminated.
Interest received or paid is classified as operating cash flows.
The cash flows from investing and financing activities are determined by using the direct method.
1.4 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures As of the date of authorisation of the financial statements the following standards were in issue but not yet effective and have not been adopted early in these financial statements and are considered by management to have a material impact on the Group: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, brings together the classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting phases of the International Accounting Standards Boards IASB project to replace IAS 39, and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The key elements of the standard are as follows: Classification and measurement IFRS 9 applies one classification approach for all types of financial assets.
Two criteria are used to determine how financial assets should be classified and measured: a the entitys business model i. e. how an entity manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows by collecting contractual cash flows, selling financial assets or both : and b the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset i. e. whether the contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest.
Impairment the incurred loss model under IAS 39 is replaced with a new expected loss model.
Impairment provisions are driven by changes in credit risk of instruments, with a provision for lifetime expected credit losses recognised where the risk of default of an instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition.
Risk of default and expected credit losses must incorporate forwardlooking and macroeconomic information.
Expected credit loss models will require more data and assumptions with impairment provisions potentially becoming more volatile.
Hedge accounting the new requirements align hedge accounting more closely with risk management.
The revised standard also establishes a more principles-based approach to hedge accounting.
81 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
