ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2016 CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 9.
Components of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Component of pay Determination Fees All Non-Executive Directors receive a basic annual fee for fulfilling their duties as a Board member.
Additional fees are paid for added responsibilities such as chairmanship and membership of Committees, or acting as the Senior Independent Director.
Fees for Committee chairmanship are paid in addition to any fees for Committee membership.
The Non-Executive Chairman receives an annual fee for the performance of his role.
This fee is agreed by the Remuneration Committee.
Fees for both Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman are paid in cash, subject to the appropriate deductions.
The amount payable takes into account: the time commitment and requirements of the role: individual performance and experience: benchmark data from appropriate market sources and the financial performance of the Bank.
The basic and additional fees are reviewed periodically, drawing on external market information for comparable financial services groups and companies.
Any increase normally takes effect from April of a given year.
The maximum aggregate annual fees that can be paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are capped at 3,000,000.
Benefits Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any pension, bonus or long-term incentive arrangements or receive any other benefits.
Travel and expenses incurred in the normal course of business, e. g. in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings, are met by the Bank.
The Chairman receives a monthly allowance as a contribution towards travel to and from the US andtowards living expenses whilst he is in the UK.
This is currently 10,000 per month before tax and National Insurance Contributions.
He does not claim any other expenses for travel to from the UK, and subsistence, in relation to his role as Chairman.
Fees on recruitment The fees payable to a new Non-Executive Director will be consistent with the current basic fee structure in place for all Non-Executive Directors and reflect any additional responsibilities as Chairman or member of Board committees.
The fees payable to a new Non-Executive Chairman will be set with reference to external market data: internal relativity among other Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the requirements of the role.
Letters of appointment The Chairman is appointed for a fixed term of two years: which renews automatically on each anniversary.
Either party can stop the automatic renewal up to two months before the renewal but the Company must pay out the balance of the fixed term if it terminates his appointment.
There is no provision for any other early termination compensation and no payment for loss of office.
Appointment letters for the Non-Executive Directors provide for a notice period of one month: during which time they are entitled to be paid their normal fees or payment in lieu without liability for compensation.
It is the Companys policy to honour any commitments made to a Director before they became a Director or before this policy took effect, even if it may not be consistent with this policy.
For example, Metro Bank will honour the share option awards made to the Non-Executive Directors and the conditional cash award, converted to shares, paid to the Executive Directors in relation to the Listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange, the details of which were described in the Prospectus 58
