ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2016 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 OUR REMUNERATION POLICY The policy outlines the overall approach Metro Bank adopts towards managing remuneration for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Approval for this Remuneration policy will be sought at the Companys Annual General Meeting and, if approved, will take effect from that date.
It is intended that the policy will apply for the three years beginning on the date of approval.
However, the Remuneration Committee will consider the policy annually to ensure it remains aligned with business strategy and the regulatory framework.
Any changes needed within three years would be subject to shareholder approval, where required.
Details of how the policy will be applied in 2017 are included in the Report on remuneration.
Policy details can be accessed on the Companys website: www.
In the interest of full disclosure, the Remuneration Committee has included these below to be read alongside the Remuneration report for the year ending 31 December 2016.
Policy Metro Bank offers banking, focused on the customer, through unparalleled levels of service and convenience.
It has a simple approach to compensation which reinforces its model by rewarding the right behaviours and outcomes for customers and the business, focusing on long-term growth and discouraging unnecessary risk-taking.
Reward principles: Pay fair salaries and offer strong career and growth opportunities in an AMAZEING culture.
Make everyone an owner: aligning them to the Banks long-term vision.
Reward colleagues based on Metro Banks performance and how they behave and deliver: both as part of the team and as an individual.
Keep reward as simple as possible, with one approach for all.
Take a retail approach to variable reward: no excessive cash bonuses or linear incentives which can skew behaviours and encourage unnecessary risk-taking.
This policy has been developed taking into account the various regulatory requirements and governance principles.
The Directors have regular open discussions with investors and are available for feedback on reward matters.
Pay and employment conditions of other colleagues in the Bank were taken into account when setting this Remuneration policy.
In particular, base pay of Executive Directors is limited by reference to colleague pay as described on page 53.
Colleagues are able to express any views on pay through regular surveys and feedback.
Components of remuneration for Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Base pay is part of the total proposition at Metro Bank, including career and growth opportunities and long-term reward.
We aim to set pay at a level which enables us to attract and retain the right calibre of colleagues, with the required level of skills, experience and cultural alignment to deliver and improve the model.
Operation Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee with any increase usually taking effect from 1 April the following year.
The following key factors are taken into account: Company culture and delivery Individual behaviours and delivery as per AMAZEING reviews Relevant external market data Scope and size of role Individuals skills, expertise and experience and ability to grow with the role and organisation Level of increases for all colleagues Internal relativity Economic factors, e. g. inflation Affordability and available budget Subject to the maximum opposite, we position salary levels for Executive Directors within the median range of the market, with consideration given to total compensation and the long-term growth focus of our model.
