ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2016 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 OUR REMUNERATION POLICY The policy outlines the overall approach Metro Bank adopts towards managing remuneration for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Approval for this Remuneration policy will be sought at the Companys Annual General Meeting and, if approved, will take effect from that date.
It is intended that the policy will apply for the three years beginning on the date of approval.
However, the Remuneration Committee will consider the policy annually to ensure it remains aligned with business strategy and the regulatory framework.
Any changes needed within three years would be subject to shareholder approval, where required.
Details of how the policy will be applied in 2017 are included in the Report on remuneration.
Policy details can be accessed on the Companys website: www.
In the interest of full disclosure, the Remuneration Committee has included these below to be read alongside the Remuneration report for the year ending 31 December 2016.
Policy Metro Bank offers banking, focused on the customer, through unparalleled levels of service and convenience.
It has a simple approach to compensation which reinforces its model by rewarding the right behaviours and outcomes for customers and the business, focusing on long-term growth and discouraging unnecessary risk-taking.
Reward principles: Pay fair salaries and offer strong career and growth opportunities in an AMAZEING culture.
Make everyone an owner: aligning them to the Banks long-term vision.
Reward colleagues based on Metro Banks performance and how they behave and deliver: both as part of the team and as an individual.
Keep reward as simple as possible, with one approach for all.
Take a retail approach to variable reward: no excessive cash bonuses or linear incentives which can skew behaviours and encourage unnecessary risk-taking.
This policy has been developed taking into account the various regulatory requirements and governance principles.
The Directors have regular open discussions with investors and are available for feedback on reward matters.
Pay and employment conditions of other colleagues in the Bank were taken into account when setting this Remuneration policy.
In particular, base pay of Executive Directors is limited by reference to colleague pay as described on page 53.
Colleagues are able to express any views on pay through regular surveys and feedback.
Components of remuneration for Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Base pay is part of the total proposition at Metro Bank, including career and growth opportunities and long-term reward.
We aim to set pay at a level which enables us to attract and retain the right calibre of colleagues, with the required level of skills, experience and cultural alignment to deliver and improve the model.
Operation Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee with any increase usually taking effect from 1 April the following year.
The following key factors are taken into account: Company culture and delivery Individual behaviours and delivery as per AMAZEING reviews Relevant external market data Scope and size of role Individuals skills, expertise and experience and ability to grow with the role and organisation Level of increases for all colleagues Internal relativity Economic factors, e. g. inflation Affordability and available budget Subject to the maximum opposite, we position salary levels for Executive Directors within the median range of the market, with consideration given to total compensation and the long-term growth focus of our model.
52 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC Base salary Maximum potential Salary increases in percentage terms for Executive Directors will normally be in line with increases awarded to other colleagues, but there may be instances where a higher amount is agreed at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, particularly where salary level is significantly below market for the size and scope of the role as the organisation grows.
Performance measures Any salary increases for Executive Directors are based on individual behaviours and performance, growth of the role and how salaries compare to pay data for that role.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy Our Pension policy aims to support Executive Directors in building long-term savings for their retirement, without exposing the Bank to any unnecessary financial risk or unacceptable cost.
Executive Directors are automatically enrolled into our Group Personal Pension Plan GPPP when Operation they join the Bank.
If they have exceeded the Life Time Allowance or the annual pension tax-free contribution limit, they may elect to take cash in lieu of pension for all or some of the benefit.
The amount received, before deduction of tax and NI, is broadly equivalent in value to the contribution that would have been made to the GPPP by Metro Bank.
Maximum potential The maximum employer contribution including cash in lieu is 10% of salary.
Performance measures There are no performance measures related specifically to pension contributions.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy We have a simple approach to reward and we also support the health, wellbeing and security of our Executive Directors through additional core benefits.
Benefits may include those currently provided and disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration.
Operation Core benefits include: Life Assurance of 4x salary Private Medical Insurance for the Executive Director, their partner and children Additional benefits may be provided in certain circumstances such as on relocation.
Legacy Income Protection is in place for the two Executive Directors.
Benefit basis is: 50% of basic annual salary at date of incapacity up to state pension age for a period of 60 months.
Executive Directors have access to voluntary employee-funded benefits available to all colleagues.
Share Incentive Plan The Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in any, new, all-employee Share Incentive Plan SIP which may be operated.
Maximum potential The maximum paid in respect of benefits will be the cost to Metro Bank of providing the benefits noted above.
The cost may fluctuate from year to year even if the level of benefit provided remains unchanged.
Performance measures There are no performance measures specifically related to benefits.
53 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2016 CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 Variable remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Our discretionary variable reward scheme is made up of cash and deferred reward normally in the form of share options market value, or by exception, shares awarded subject to forfeiture together called Share Awards.
As a growth model organisation, Share Awards form the main part of our variable compensation to encourage Executive Directors to focus on the long-term and to think and behave like owners.
The purpose of variable reward is to recognise Executive Directors for demonstrating our AMAZEING Behaviours and also for achievement against business priorities for the year.
Operation We operate a discretionary variable reward scheme based on behaviours and performance over the year, paid in the form of cash and Share Awards for all colleagues including Executive Directors.
We do not operate any separate and additional Long Term Incentive Plans.
At least 50% of variable pay is deferred into long-term Share Awards, normally in the form of share options, and a further 25% is deferred into one year vesting Share Awards: again normally share options.
The remaining 25% is paid as cash.
This means a minimum of 75% of variable reward is deferred into Share Awards.
Options may vest early, e. g. on a takeover or other transaction or on leaving employment in certain circumstances see below.
Alternatively, on a change in control etc.
Share Awards may be exchanged for awards over shares in the new company.
Options are normally exercisable for ten years from the date of grant.
Options may be satisfied on exercise by delivering shares equal to the gain.
Share Awards satisfy regulatory requirements around the deferral of variable reward and once vested, may also be subject to a holding period.
Share Awards are not subject to further performance conditions on vesting since the award itself was subject to the achievement of performance conditions, but are subject to malus or claw back as explained opposite.
Variable compensation relating to the previous performance year is communicated to Executive Directors in the following February or March, annually.
Cash bonuses are then paid in March and Share Awards are usually granted in March or April of that year.
We use a Black-Scholes method to inform the fair value of options at the time of award and the fair value of Share Awards will never be more than the variable remuneration deferred.
Through our Bonus Exchange Scheme, Executive Directors may be allowed to exchange part or all of the cash element of any variable compensation into their Metro Bank pension, or into immediate vesting Share Awards.
The cash element may be exchanged for Share Awards at an exchange price approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The exchange price offered to Executive Directors is on the same basis as for all other colleagues.
The fair value of the Share Awards via Bonus Exchange will never be more than the cash element exchanged.
There are no holding periods for these Bonus Exchange Share Awards.
Maximum potential Total variable remuneration, including the fair value of Share Awards, for each Executive Director for any year will not exceed 200% of their base pay at award.
54 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC Variable remuneration Performance measures The variable reward pool for any year is based on the overall performance of the Bank in terms of culture and delivery in line with the Balanced Scorecard, set out under Performance measures below.
We also consider risk-adjusted financial performance in setting the overall pool.
Executive Directors are awarded variable remuneration for a year on a discretionary basis taking into account: overall culture, performance and success of Metro Bank: and individual behaviours and performance based on their AMAZEING Reviews these performance targets are agreed at the beginning of the year and are reflected in the Balanced Scorecard for Metro Bank.
Behavioural framework expectations Balanced Scorecard performance targets AMAZEING Behaviours framework covers the following Fall into the following behaviours: categories: Attend to every detail Financial Make every wrong right Risk Ask if you are not sure, bump it up Customer Zest is contagious, share it People and culture Exceed expectations Inspire colleagues to create FANS Nurture colleagues so they grow Game change because this is a Revolution The Bank is focused on the right outcomes for customers and does not incentivise the delivery of any specific targets in a linear way.
The performance measures will be set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of each financial year.
At least 25% of measures will be based on financial indicators.
No more than 75% of the maximum variable remuneration i. e. no more than 150% of base pay will be paid for on-target performance.
We are committed to providing transparency in decision-making in respect of variable reward.
We will disclose historic targets and measures together with information relating to performance against those targets in the Annual report on remuneration for the relevant year, except to the extent that this is deemed to be commercially sensitive, in which case it will be disclosed once it is deemed not to be sensitive.
Notes Malus and clawback apply to all deferred variable remuneration.
The majority of our variable reward is focused on Share Awards clawback is not applied to the relatively low cash element of variable pay.
Vesting or exercise of Share Awards can be reduced or delayed or clawed back: including if there is a restatement of accounts or a material failure of risk management, a material downturn in financial performance or evidence of misconduct by an Executive Director.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion with regards to variable reward.
This relates to: the timing, size and type of awards and holding periods, subject to policy maximums: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : adjustment of targets and measures if events occur which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee also retains the right to change performance targets and measures and the weighting of measures, including following feedback from regulators, shareholders and or other stakeholders: and amending the plan rules in accordance with their terms.
55 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
