ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC 7.
Remuneration on or after termination For each component of pay, the amount paid to an Executive on termination will be determined as follows: Component of pay Determination Salary fees The Executive Director is entitled to be given notice of termination of the relevant length and receive their normal base salary and benefits in that time.
The Bank has discretion to make a payment in lieu of base salary in respect of any unexpired notice period and may decide to pay this in instalments, subject to reduction if the Executive Director finds alternative employment.
Benefits will continue until the last day of contractual employment and the accrued but unused holiday will be paid out.
Variable pay Variable remuneration may accrue during a notice period however unless decided otherwise by the Remuneration Committee at its discretion the Executive Director has to be employed at the date that any variable remuneration is awarded in order to be eligible to receive it.
No variable compensation is payable after termination and previous unvested variable reward deferred into Share Awards will usually lapse.
However, if the Executive Director leaves for the reasons detailed in the Deferred Variable Reward Plan Rules e. g. ill health, retirement, redundancy or death or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, their award under that plan will continue on the same terms subject to reduction and clawback as described in the policy and vest at the normal time provided any performance conditions are met.
Pension Pension contributions continue to be made during the notice period.
No further payment in lieu of pension or pension contributions can be made after termination.
Any benefits will become payable in the normal course in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
There is no right to early payment of benefits unless this can be done without additional contribution from the Bank.
The circumstances of an Executive Directors leaving and their behaviours and performance will be considered by the Remuneration Committee when deciding whether it should, in the circumstances, exercise its discretion to treat them as a good leaver or not.
For example, someone voluntarily leaving to join a competitor is unlikely to be treated as a good leaver.
As a general principle we do not reward failure.
The Banks policy is that Executive Directors contracts can be terminated by either party on giving no more than 12 months notice.
Additional payments can be made by way of damages for breach of any legal obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim raised by the Executive Director.
The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered office.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to accept one appointment on a Board or Committee of a listed company so long as this does not interfere or conflict with the business of the Company.
Any fees received in respect of these appointments can be retained directly by the relevant Executive Director.
57 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
