You can also manage your shareholding online by registering for millenniumhotels.
com including: Shareview at www.
When contacting Equiniti or registering online, you should have your shareholder reference number at regular updates about our business: hand.
This can be found on your share certificate or latest dividend tax hotel and other property information: voucher.
the ability to book a room at one of our hotels around the world: share price information: Contact details for our registrar: financial results and investor information: and our financial calendar which includes dividend payment dates and Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, United Kingdom amounts.
Electronic shareholder communications Telephone: 0371 384 2343 Registering for online communication gives shareholders more control of and outside the UK 44 121 415 7047 their shareholding.
The registration process is via our registrars secure Textphone: 0371 384 2255 website www.
and outside the UK 44 121 415 7028 Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, UK time.
Once registered shareholders are able to: elect how we communicate with them: ShareGift amend their details: It may be that you have a small number of shares which would cost you amend the way dividends are received: and more to sell than they are worth.
It is possible to donate these to buy or sell shares online.
ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide a free service to enable you to dispose charitably of such shares.
More information on this service This does not mean shareholders can no longer receive paper copies of can be obtained from www.
org or by calling 44 0 207 930 documents.
We are able to offer a range of services and tailor 3737. communication to meet their needs.
Managing your shares Please contact our registrar, Equiniti, to manage your shareholding if you wish to: register for electronic communications: transfer your shares: change your registered name or address: register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement: consolidate your share holdings: manage your dividend payments: and notify the death of a shareholder.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 157 Further information Shareholder information continued Be aware of share fraudsters Shareholders are cautioned to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers of free reports on the Company.
If you do receive such an approach, you are encouraged to take the following steps: obtain the full name of the person and organisation and make a record of any other information they give you, for example telephone number, address or web address: if the caller persists, simply hang up: and report the matter to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA so that they can investigate.
If you suspect that you have been approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
You are advised to deal only with financial services firms that are authorised by the FCA.
Check the firm is properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved by visiting www.
If you do deal with an unauthorised firm you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
If you have lost money to investment fraud, you should report it to Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online at www.
158 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Contacts and advisers Solicitor Hogan Lovells International LLP Registered office Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF, Principal bankers United Kingdom Bank of America Merrill Lynch Registered in England and Wales No: 3004377 DBS Bank Ltd. Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Corporate headquarters Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited Scarsdale Place, Kensington, London W8 5SR, Royal Bank of Scotland plc United Kingdom Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
Stockbroker The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Credit Suisse Securities Limited Registrar Auditor Equiniti Limited KPMG LLP Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 159
