Notes to the Company financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2016 134B41.
135BSignificant accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by company law.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS100 Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Accordingly, in the year ended 31 March 2016 the Company has undergone transition from reporting under UK GAAP to FRS101 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
This transition is not considered to have had a material effect on the financial statements.
As permitted by FRS 101, the company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, presentation of a cash flow statement, impairment of assets, standards not yet effective, and related party transactions.
Where relevant, equivalent disclosures have been given in the group accounts.
As more fully detailed in the Directors report, the Companys financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is charged to the profit and loss account, net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Financial instruments Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the profit and loss account where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the profit and loss account and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
com 157 Notes to the Company financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 136B41.
137BSignificant accounting policies continued Share-based payments The group operates a number of executive and employee share option schemes.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo models and the corresponding expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Save As You Earn SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
Options over the Companys shares awarded to employees of the Companys subsidiaries are accounted for as a capital contribution within the carrying value of investments in subsidiary undertakings.
Pensions The Company participates in a group defined benefit scheme.
The pension liability relating to the group scheme is disclosed in the groups subsidiary financial statements.
There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost.
The Company recognises a cost equal to its contribution payable for the period, which is presented within administrative expenses in the profit and loss account.
Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the details of the IAS 19 Employee Benefits net pension liability of 35.5m 2015: 34.9m.
139BProfit for the year As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
Mitie Group plc reported a profit after taxation for the financial year ended 31 March 2016 of 80.2m 2015: 201.2m.
The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was 35,000 2015: 33,000.
Detailed disclosures of Directors remuneration and share options are given in the audited section of the Directors remuneration report contained in the consolidated financial statements.
141BInvestments in subsidiary undertakings m Shares at cost At 1 April 2015 736.3 Additions 0.2 Capital contribution re share-based payments 3.9 Disposals 16.6 At 31 March 2016 723.8 Provision for impairment At 1 April 2015 32.6 At 31 March 2016 32.6 Net book value At 31 March 2016 691.2 At 31 March 2015 703.7 A listing of principal subsidiaries is given in Note 40.
Disposals in the period relate to the voluntary striking-off of dormant subsidiaries within the group.
158 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 142B44.
143BDebtors 2016 2015 m m Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 27.5 28.5 Other debtors 2.3 0.5 Prepayments and accrued income 0.8 0.8 Corporation tax 0.1 Deferred tax asset Note 45 0.5 0.6 31.1 30.5 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of debtors approximates their fair value.
145BDeferred tax Sharebased payment timing difference m Deferred tax asset at 1 April 2015 0.6 Charge to the profit and loss account 0.1 Deferred tax asset at 31 March 2016 Note 44 0.5 146B46.
147BCreditors: amounts falling due within one year 2016 2015 m m Overdraft 35.3 81.3 Trade creditors 1.1 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 9.3 5.2 Other taxes and social security 1.1 0.3 Accruals and deferred income 10.0 11.1 Corporation tax 0.2 57.0 97.9 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of creditors approximates their fair value.
The Companys bank overdrafts are part of the groups banking arrangements and are offset against credit balances within the group.
The Company has adequate liquidity to discharge all current obligations.
For details of group borrowings, see Note 26. www.
com 159 Notes to the Company financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2016 152B47.
153BContingent liabilities Details of contingent liabilities have been given in Note 34 of the consolidated financial statements.
155BShare-based payments Equity-settled share option schemes The Company has seven share option schemes as described in Note 36 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Company recognised an expense of 1.2m 2015: 2.2m related to the share-based payment charge for discretionary share option schemes.
The fair value of options is measured by use of the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo models.
The inputs into the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo models are as described in Note 36 of the consolidated financial statements.
157BRelated parties The Company makes management charges to all of its subsidiaries, whether they are wholly-owned or otherwise, and receives dividends from its subsidiaries, according to their ability to remit them.
Other details of related party transactions have been given in Note 38 of the consolidated financial statement.
Under FRS 101 the Company is exempt from disclosing key management personnel compensation and transactions with other companies wholly owned by Mitie Group plc.
Other related party transactions are disclosed below: Sales to Purchases from 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Subsidiaries 0.4 5.1 All inter-company balances are unsecured: training balances are payable within 30 days unless both parties agree an extension, funding balances are repayable on demand.
160 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Shareholder information Results Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Mitie has set up a dividend reinvestment 2017 Half-yearly results 21 November 2016 plan DRIP to enable you to build your shareholding by using your cash dividends Dividends under a standing election to buy additional 2016 Half-yearly dividend 5.4p paid 1 February 2016 shares in Mitie.
If you would like to receive further information, including details of how 2016 Final dividend 6.7p proposed to apply, please call Capita Asset Services 2016 Final ex-dividend date 23 June 2016 on 020 8639 3402 or contact them by 2016 Final dividend record date 24 June 2016 sending an email to: shares@capita.
2016 Final dividend payment date 4 August 2016 Mitie online share portal 2016 Final dividend last date for receipt revocation of DRIP mandate 8 July 2016 Mitie has launched a shareholder portal where shareholders can register and can: 2016 Annual General Meeting access information on shareholdings 2016 Annual General Meeting 12 July 2016 and movements: update address details: Company details Registrars view dividend payments received and Mitie Group plc Capita Asset Services register bank mandate instructions: 1 Harlequin Office Park The Registry Fieldfare 34 Beckenham Road sell Mitie shares: Emersons Green Beckenham complete an online proxy voting form: Bristol Kent and BS16 7FN BR3 4TU register for e-communications allowing Telephone: 0117 970 8800 Mitie to notify shareholders by email Fax: 0117 301 4159 that certain documents are available to Email: group@mitie.
com Telephone: 0871 664 0300 view on its website.
This will further Website: www.
com reduce Mities carbon footprint as well as reduce costs.
calls cost 12p a minute plus network extras, Registered number: SC019230 lines are open 9.00am 5.30pm Mon Fri.
If you wish to register, please sign up at www.
com Corporate website This report can be downloaded in PDF from the Mitie website, which also contains additional general information about Mitie.
com Cautionary Statement Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc Certain statements contained in this announcement constitute or may constitute forward-looking statements.
com cases, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms Photography by: Ed Robinson, One Red Eye believes, estimates, projects, aims, plans, predicts, prepares, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in Dan Lewis, VisMedia, Getty Images.
each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and Printed by Park Communications on FSC other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the group to be materially different certified paper.
from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such Park is an EMAS certified company and its forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the groups present and future business Environmental Management System is certified strategies and the environment in which the group will operate in the future.
These forward-looking statements speak only to ISO 14001. as at the date of this announcement.
Except as required by applicable law, rule or regulation, the group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, this announcement to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use circumstances on which any such statement is based.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and and on average 99% of any waste associated with uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future or are this production will be recycled.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Mities actual results of This document is printed on Edixion Offset, a paper operations, financial condition and the development of the business sector in which the group operates may differ containing 100% Environmental Chlorine Free ECF materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this document including, but not limited virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, to, UK domestic and global economic business conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and FSC certified forests.
exchange rates, the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, currency changes, inflation, deflation, the timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and other regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group and its affiliates operate.
In addition, even if the groups actual results of operations, financial condition and the development of the business sector in which the group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this document, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as of the date of this announcement.
Mitie Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 A huge thank you To our people, who excel, challenge and inspire every day, and make Mitie the business it is today.
Mitie Group plc 1 Harlequin Office Park, Fieldfare, Emersons Green Bristol BS16 7FN, United Kingdom T: 44 0 117 970 8800 E: group@mitie.
