Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 217 Glossary of terms FSC Sustainable Development Goals Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an SDGs international not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder The UN Sustainable Development organisation established in 1993 to promote Goals were launched in 2015, involving socially and environmentally responsible a comprehensive, far-reaching and management of the worlds forests by way people-centred set of 17 universal and of standard setting, third-party certification transformative goals and 169 targets.
and labelling of forest products.
They are integrated and indivisible, and will stimulate action over the next 15 years in GHG areas of critical importance for humanity Greenhouse gases GHG are gases and the planet: people, planet, prosperity, listed in the Kyoto Protocol of the United peace and partnerships.
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UN-FCCC that contribute to the TRCR greenhouse effect and are regulated by the Total recordable case rate TRCR is Kyoto Protocol.
calculated as the number of total recordable cases the sum of fatalities, lost-time injuries, GRI restricted work cases, medical treatment The Global Reporting Initiative GRI is a notcases and compensated occupational for-profit organisation that produces one of illnesses divided by the number of hours the worlds most prevalent frameworks for worked per 200,000 man hours.
TRS Net debt Total reduced sulphur compounds, A measure comprising short, medium, and generated in the pulping process, and long-term interest-bearing borrowings and a source of emissions to air measured the fair value of debt-related derivatives in tonnes.
less cash and cash equivalents and current financial asset investments.
Underlying EBITDA Operating profit before special items, PEFC depreciation and amortisation.
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC is an international Underlying operating profit not-for-profit non-government organisation Operating profit before special items.
dedicated to promoting sustainable forest Underlying profit before tax management through independent thirdReported profit before tax and party certification.
Return on capital employed ROCE Underlying earnings Trailing 12-month underlying operating Net profit after tax before special items profit, including share of associates net attributable to shareholders.
profit, divided by trailing 12-month average capital employed and for segments United Nations Global Compact has been extracted from management UNGC reports.
Capital employed is adjusted for UNGC is a strategic policy initiative for impairments in the year and spend on businesses that are committed to aligning those strategic projects which are not yet their operations and strategies with 10 in production.
universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and Special items anti-corruption.
Those financial items which the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the combined and consolidated income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Special items affect year-on-year comparability and Mondi therefore excludes these items when reporting underlying earnings and related measures in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group on a basis that is comparable from year to year.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Mondi investor relations team Building 1, 1st floor, Aviator Park Station Road, Addlestone Surrey KT15 2PG, UK 44 1932 826 300 www.
com Our 2016 suite of reports Please visit our online reporting hub where copies of our reports can be downloaded: www.
com reports16 Integrated report and Global thinking, local action: Online Sustainable financial statements 2016 Sustainable development 2016 development report 2016 A balanced overview of Mondis A printed publication looking at A comprehensive view of performance in 2016 and insight how were using our Growing our approach to sustainable into how our approach to Responsibility model to address development and our performance Printed on FSC certified strategy, governance, people some of our greatest challenges in 2016, prepared in accordance Mondi MAESTRO PRINT and performance combine to and enabling our businesses with the GRI G4 core guidelines.
in 250gsm, 120gsm and 80gsm generate value in a sustainable way.
Also available online Available online as an interactive Also available online at at www.
com sd16 Printing: CPI Colour | www.
com ir16 sdpublication16 Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.
