Shareholder Information Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive In accordance with the AIFM Directive, information in relation to The Companys maximum and actual leverage levels see Glossary the Companys leverage and the remuneration of the Companys of Terms below at 30 April 2016 are as follows: AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, is required to be made available Leverage to investors.
In accordance with the Directive, the AIFM remuneration policy is available on the Managers website at Gross method Commitment method www.
com or on request see contact details on the Maximum limit 2.50:1 2.00:1 back cover.
The numerical remuneration disclosures in respect of Actual 1.08:1 1.08:1 the AIFMs first relevant reporting period year ended 31 March 2016 are also available at www.
Glossary of Terms Total Assets Gearing Total assets less current liabilities, before deduction of all borrowings.
At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any other public company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in Net Asset Value additional investments for its portfolio.
The effect of the borrowing Net Asset Value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities on the shareholders assets is called gearing.
If the Companys including borrowings.
The NAV per share is calculated by assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more dividing this amount by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
because the debt remains the same.
But if the value of the Companys assets falls, the situation is reversed.
Gearing can Net Asset Value at Fair therefore enhance performance in rising markets but can Borrowings are valued at an estimate of their market worth.
adversely impact performance in falling markets.
The level of gearing can be adjusted through the use of derivatives which Net Asset Value at Par affect the sensitivity of the value of the portfolio to changes in the Borrowings are valued at their nominal par value.
Discount Premium Potential gearing is the Companys borrowings expressed as a As stockmarkets and share prices vary, an investment trusts percentage of shareholders funds.
share price is rarely the same as its NAV.
When the share price is Gearing is the Companys borrowings at par less cash and cash lower than the NAV per share it is said to be trading at a discount.
equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a Effective gearing, as defined by the Board and Managers of percentage of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than Monks, is the Companys borrowings at par less cash, brokers the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
balances and investment grade bonds maturing within one year, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Total Return Equity gearing is the Companys borrowings at par less cash, The total return is the return to shareholders after reinvesting the brokers balances and bonds, expressed as a percentage of net dividend on the date that the share price goes xd.
Ongoing Charges Leverage The total expenses excluding borrowing costs incurred by the For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Company as a percentage of the average net asset value with AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the debt at fair value.
Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Active Share Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be Active share, a measure of how actively a portfolio is managed, calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the is the percentage of the portfolio that differs from its comparative gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys index.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 the percentage of positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative index.
An active taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index and an active the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the index.
deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
As adjusted to take into account the gearing impact of any derivative holdings.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 55 Directors Registered Office Alternative Investment Fund Managers and Chairman: Computershare Investor Services PLC Secretaries JGD Ferguson Moor House Baillie Gifford & Co Limited 120 London Wall CC Ferguson Calton Square London EM Harley 1 Greenside Row EC2Y 5ET DCP McDougall Edinburgh KS Sternberg EH1 3AN JJ Tigue Tel: 0131 275 2000 www.
com Registrar Independent Auditors Depositary Computershare  LLP BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary Investor Services PLC UK Limited Chartered Accountants and The Pavilions Statutory Auditors BNY Mellon Centre Bridgwater Road Atria One 160 Queen Victoria Street Bristol 144 Morrison Street London BS99 6ZZ Edinburgh EC4V 4LA Tel: 0370 707 1170 EH3 8EX Brokers Company Details Further Information Canaccord Genuity Limited www.
co. uk Client Relations Team 88 Wood Street Incorporated in England and Wales Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited London Company Registration No.
00236964 Calton Square EC2V 7QR ISIN GB0030517261 1 Greenside Row Sedol 3051726 Edinburgh Ticker MNKS EH1 3AN Tel: 0800 917 2112 Email: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
