OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 173 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Book-to-bill ratio The book-to-bill ratio is the ratio of orders received to sales in the period.
See Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Measures to GAAP Measures on page 37.
Cash flow from operations Cash generated from operations before cash flows from restructuring costs and other items.
See Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Measures to GAAP Measures on page 36.
Constant currency Constant currency revenue and Group headline operating profit are derived by translating the prior year results at current year average exchange rates.
Corporate costs Corporate costs consist of the costs of the central head office.
Energy use Energy from all sources.
Free cash flow before acquisitions Cash generated from operations less net capital expenditure, net interest paid and tax paid.
and dividends See Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Measures to GAAP Measures on page 36.
Group earnings before interest, EBITA is defined as Group operating profit before specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible assets.
tax and amortisation EBITA Segment Divisional and global business unit EBITA is stated before unallocated corporate costs.
See Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Measures to GAAP Measures on page 35.
Group earnings before interest, EBITDA is defined as operating profit before specific adjusting items, amortisation of intangible assets, tax, depreciation and amortisation restructuring costs and other items, and depreciation.
EBITDA See Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Measures to GAAP Measures on page 36.
Group headline operating profit Operating profit adjusted to exclude specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible assets.
Headline earnings per share EPS Headline earnings per share is defined as operating profit adjusted to exclude specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible assets, plus share of profit of associate less net financing costs, income tax expense and non-controlling interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares during the period.
Lost time accident LTA Accident which results in one or more days lost time.
Lost time per LTA Total time lost due to health and safety in the year divided by the number of lost time accidents reported in the year.
Net debt Interest-bearings loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
Restructuring costs and other items Include the costs of restructuring activity and gain on disposal of property.
Return on invested capital ROIC Group headline operating profit operating profit excluding specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible assets divided by the 12-month average adjusted net assets excludes long term employee benefits, deferred tax assets and liabilities, current tax payable, provisions, cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Return on operating Group headline operating profit operating profit excluding specific adjusting items and amortisation of capital employed ROCE intangible assets divided by the sum of working capital as defined below and the net book value property, plant and equipment and land and buildings.
Goodwill and other intangible assets are excluded.
See Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Measures to GAAP Measures on pages 36 and 37.
Revenue growth Revenue growth is defined as current year revenue translated using current year average exchange rates divided by prior year revenue translated using prior year average exchange rates.
Specific adjusting items See note 6 to the financial statements for further details Waste Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
Water use intensity Water from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use.
Working capital as used in the Working capital as used in the calculation of ROCE is the sum of inventories, trade and other receivables, ROCE calculation net derivative financial liabilities, net assets classified as held-for-sale, trade and other payables, plus the net of deferred consideration, third-party dividends payable and other sundry items.
27 July 2017 Half-year results announced via the Regulatory News Service and on the Companys website.
In the interests of reducing printing, paper and postage costs and the associated environmental impact, the half-year results have been available online only since 2015. Dividend payment dates 25 November 2016 An interim cash dividend of 4.0 pence per Ordinary share of 25 pence each was paid to shareholders registered at the close of business on 4 November 2016.
26 May 2017 Subject to shareholders approval at the 2017 AGM, a final cash dividend of 7.0 pence per Ordinary share of 25 pence each will be paid to shareholders registered at the close of business on 5 May 2017.
1 April 2017 and Dividend payment dates in respect of the 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of 1 each and the 5.0% 1 October 2017 Cumulative Second Preference shares of 1 each.
Other information Capital gains tax The market values of quoted shares and stocks at 31 March 1982 were: Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 122.5 pence 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of 1 each 30.5 pence 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of 1 each 28.5 pence For capital gains tax purposes, the cost of Ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of rights issues.
Any capital gains arising on disposal will also be adjusted to take account of indexation allowances.
Since the adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers.
Share price The price can be obtained on the Companys website: www.
com ISIN Code GB0006027295 Ticker symbol MGAM Company details Company name change The Company changed its name to Morgan Advanced Materials plc from The Morgan Crucible Company plc on 27 March 2013.
Following this change, share certificates issued in the name The Morgan Crucible Company plc remain valid replacement share certificates in the name Morgan Advanced Materials plc were not issued to existing shareholders.
Registered office Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP Registered in England No.
com Website The Companys website provides information about the Group including the markets in which it operates, its strategy and recent news from the Group.
The Investors section is a key source of information for shareholders, containing details of financial results, shareholder meetings and dividends, and providing access to frequently asked questions.
Current and past annual, half-year and EHS reports are also available to view and download.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 175 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued Company registrars Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU Telephone in the UK : 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12 pence per minute plus your phone companys access charge: lines are open Monday Friday, 9.00am 5.30pm, excluding public holidays Telephone from outside the UK : 44 371 664 0300 Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.
com Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should contact Capita directly.
Alternatively, shareholders may find the Investors section of our website useful for general enquiries.
Share Portal The Share Portal is a secure online site where you can manage your shareholding quickly and easily, reducing the need for paperwork and providing 24-hour access for your convenience.
Through the Share Portal you can view your holding and get an indicative valuation, change your address, arrange to have dividends paid into your bank account and view your dividend payment history.
To register for the Share Portal visit www.
All you need is your investor code, which can be found on your share certificate or your dividend tax voucher Dividend payments You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways.
Dividends will automatically be paid to you by cheque and sent to your registered address unless you have chosen one of the options below: Direct payment to your bank Cash dividends can be paid directly to a UK bank or building society account.
This means that your dividend reaches your bank account on the payment date, it is more secure cheques can sometimes get lost in the post, you dont have the inconvenience of depositing a cheque and cheque fraud is reduced.
If you have a UK bank account you can sign up for this service on the Share Portal by clicking on Your dividend options and following the on-screen instructions or by contacting Capita.
International payments service If you live outside the UK, Capita has partnered with Deutsche Bank to provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can choose to receive payment directly into your local bank account or, alternatively, you can be sent a currency draft.
You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal by clicking on Your dividend options and following the on-screen instructions or by contacting Capita.
For further information contact Capita by telephone in the UK on 0871 664 0385 calls cost 12 pence per minute plus your phone companys access charge: lines are open Monday Friday, 9.00am 5.30pm, excluding public holidays or from outside the UK on 44 0 20 8639 3405, or by email ips@capita.
Multiple accounts on the If a shareholder receives two or more sets of AGM documents, this means that there is more than one shareholder register account in their name on the shareholder register, perhaps because either the name or the address appears on each account in a slightly different way.
If you have multiple accounts and would like them to be combined, please contact Capita Asset Services, as detailed above under the heading Company registrars.
Buying and selling shares Capita Asset Services provides a simple and competitively priced service to buy and sell shares.
There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated application forms to complete.
For more information, visit www.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open Monday Friday, 8.00am 4.30pm, excluding public holidays.
This is not a recommendation to buy and sell shares and this service may not be suitable for all shareholders.
The price of shares can go down as well as up and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested.
Terms, conditions and risks apply.
Capita Asset Services is a trading name of Capita IRG Trustees Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
This service is only available to private shareholders resident in the European Economic Area, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
Donate your shares to charity If you have only a small number of shares which are uneconomical to sell, you may wish to consider donating them to charity, free of charge, through ShareGift registered charity 1052686, a charity that specialises in the donation of small, unwanted shareholdings to good causes.
You can find out more by visiting www.
Unsolicited telephone Shareholders in companies may receive unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment calls and mail matters.
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research reports, please check the company or person contacting you is properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority before getting involved.
Further information about what you should do is available on our website in the Shareholder Centre in the Investors section.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 176 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This Report has been printed in the UK.
Our printers are environmental management system ISO 14001-accredited and Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody-certified.
All inks used are vegetable-based.
This paper is environmentally friendly ECF elemental chlorine-free and wood-free with a high content of selected pre-consumer recycled material.
The mill is fully FSC-certified.
The paper is also completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
If you have finished reading this Report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Morgan Advanced Materials or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This Annual Report is available at www.
com Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.
com MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Morgan Advanced Materials plc Quadrant, 55-57 High Street Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP Tel: 44 0 1753 837000 Fax: 44 0 1753 850872 www.
