Corporate Information Information about the Manager Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited The Manager has its headquarters in Aberdeen and invests The Companys Manager is Aberdeen Asset Managers globally, operating from over 39 offices in 26 different Limited, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, countries.
Its investment teams are generally based in the whose group companies as at 31 December 2016 had markets or regions in which they invest: in the UK its main approximately 302.7bn of assets under management.
It investment centres are in London and Edinburgh.
manages assets on behalf of a wide range of clients including 95 investment companies and other closed-ended funds, which had combined total assets of over 17.4bn.
The Senior Investment Manager Bruce Stout and Aberdeens Global Equity Team Bruce Stout and Aberdeens Global Equity team are responsible for managing Murray International Trust PLC.
The investment management team is responsible for the construction of global equity portfolios.
Bruce Stout is a senior investment manager on the Global equities team.
Bruce joined Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or acquired companies in 1987 and has held a number of roles including investment manager on the emerging markets team.
He has been directly involved in the management of the Companys assets since 1992 and Manager since 2004.
The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style contains all buy and hold recommendations for each desk, which are then used as the investment universe.
If a stock no Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a longer meets the criteria to be included on the Buy List, it is sound structure.
The Manager has as its primary objective in sold within 30 days.
This process enables the manager to managing Murray International Trust PLC the delivery of better reflect top down themes that emerge from the global consistent outperformance against the benchmark based on equity strategy and investment themes meetings that take the concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been developed as detailed on page 6.
However, to meet the Risk Controls different performance objectives mandated for specific funds, Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a there is built-in flexibility.
Key decisions are implemented specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to consistently across all funds and portfolio risk limits are set ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their and closely monitored.
A continuous watch is kept over mandate.
As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio critical factors that influence investment decisions, so that investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to risk when views change, action is taken swiftly and decisively to from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in reposition portfolios.
Market price risk is managed by strict Stock Selection adherence to parameters set for portfolio construction.
The foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of The investment management team, led by Bruce Stout, has forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the responsibility for portfolio construction across all regional portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and on-call segments.
Working closely with the relevant underlying desks deposits.
A detailed risk profile of the Company is given in in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
note 18 to the financial statements The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
