Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also and the financial statements in accordance with applicable responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors law and regulations.
Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate Governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the The financial statements are published on murray-intl.
co. uk Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards integrity of the corporate and financial information included and applicable law including FRS 102 The Financial on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Ireland.
Under company law the Directors must not approve may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of his or her Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that knowledge: period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the consistently: Company: make judgments and accounting estimates that are the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair reasonable and prudent: and, review of the development and performance of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have business and the position of the Company, together with a been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the and explained in the financial statements.
Company faces: and that in the opinion of the Board, the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Financial Statements taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain understandable and it provides the information necessary the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable to assess the Companys performance, business model and accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company strategy.
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also For Murray International Trust PLC responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Kevin Carter detection of fraud and other irregularities.
