Corporate Information Glossary of Terms and Definitions AFML Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and acts as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager for the Company.
AFML is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
AAM Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited has been delegated responsibility for day to day management.
AAM is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
AIC The Association of Investment Companies - the AIC is the trade body for closed-ended investment companies theaic.
AIFMD The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive - The AIFMD is European legislation which created a European-wide framework for regulating managers of alternative investment funds AIFs.
It is designed to regulate any fund which is not a UCITS Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities fund and which is managed marketed in the EU.
The Company has been designated as an AIF.
Benchmark The Companys benchmark is a composite index comprising 40% of the FTSE World UK Index and 60% of the FTSE World ex-UK Index.
Common Reporting Under CRS the Company is required to provide personal information to HMRC on certain investors that Standards or CRS purchase shares in the Company.
This information will be provided annually to the local tax authority of the tax residencies of a number of non UK based certificated shareholders and corporate entities.
Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
Disclosure Guidance and The DTRs contain requirements for publishing and distributing annual financial reports, half-yearly Transparency Rules financial reports and other regulatory statements, and are applicable to investment companies which are or DTRs listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Dividend Cover Revenue return per share divided by dividends per share expressed as a ratio.
Dividend Entitlements The Ordinary shares carry the right to receive the revenue profits including accumulated revenue reserves of the Company available for distribution as dividend and determined to be distributed by way of interim and or final dividend and at such times as the Directors may determine.
Electronic The Directors are keen to encourage the use of electronic communications.
Any registered shareholders Communications wishing to receive future communications from the Company electronically should contact Capita Asset Services at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or Tel: 0371 664 0300 lines are open 8.30am-5.30pm Mon-Fri. Gearing Investment Trusts can 'gear' or borrow money to invest but unit trusts are limited in this respect.
Gearing can magnify a funds return, however, a geared investment is riskier because of the borrowed money.
Financial Conduct The FCA issues the Listing Rules and is responsible for the regulation of AFML.
Authority or FCA Investment Manager or The Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager is Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML Manager which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority Day to day management of the portfolio is delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM.
AAM and AFML are collectively referred to as the Investment Manager or the Manager.
Listing Rules The FCAs Listing Rules are a set of regulations that are applicable to all companies that are listed on the 80 Annual Report 2016 London Stock Exchange.
MiFID The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 2004 39 EC MiFID is a European Union law that provides harmonised regulation for investment services across the 31 member states of the European Economic Area.
Net Asset Value or NAV The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose includes current and long-term liabilities.
The NAV divided by the number of shares in issue produces the NAV per share.
Net Gearing Cash Net gearing cash is calculated by dividing total assets as defined below less cash or cash equivalents by shareholders funds expressed as a percentage.
Ongoing Charges Ratio of expenses as percentage of average daily shareholders funds calculated as per the AICs industry standard method PIDD Pre-Investment Disclosure Document.
Aberdeen and the Company are required to make certain disclosures available to investors in accordance with the AIFMD.
Those disclosures that are required to be made pre-investment are included within a pre-investment disclosure document 'PIDD', a copy of which can be found on the Companys website.
Premium The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust exceeds the NAV per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
Prior Charges The name given to all borrowings including debentures, long term loans and short term loans and overdrafts used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency loans, currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, index-linked securities, and all types of preference or preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, irrespective of the time until repayment.
Total assets The total assets less current liabilities as shown on the Balance Sheet with the addition of Prior Charges as defined above.
Total Return Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the month that the share price goes xd.
The NAV Total Return involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the Company on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg quarter end, half year or year end date.
The following data has been used: Ex Dividend Date Dividend Rate p NAV p Share Price p 7 January 2016 10.5 805.23 781.0 7 April 2016 15.0 923.54 890.0 7 July 2016 10.5 1097.0 1023.0 6 October 2016 10.5 1150.9 1129.0 Voting Rights In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, on a show of hands, every member or duly appointed proxy present at a general meeting of the Company has one vote: and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 25p nominal amount of Ordinary shares held.
Winding-Up On a winding up of the Company, any surplus assets available after payment of all debts and satisfaction Entitlements of all liabilities of the Company shall be applied in repaying the Ordinary shareholders the amounts paid up on such shares.
Any surplus shall be divided among the holders of Ordinary shares pari passu according to the amount paid up on such shares respectively.
