Corporate Information Investor Information Website Shareholder Enquiries Further information on the Company can be found on its In the event of queries regarding their holdings of shares, lost own dedicated website: murray-intl.
This allows web certificates dividend payments, registered details, etc users to access information on the Companys share price shareholders holding their shares in the Company directly performance, capital structure, stock exchange should contact the registrars, Capita Asset Services at The announcements and monthly reports.
Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or Tel: 0371 664 0300 Lines are open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Investor Warning London Time Monday to Friday.
Calls may be recorded and monitored randomly for security and training purposes.
The Board has been made aware by Aberdeen that some investors have received telephone calls from people Changes of address must be notified to the registrars in purporting to work for Aberdeen, or third parties, who have writing.
Any general enquiries about the Company should be offered to buy their investment trust shares.
These may be directed to the Company Secretary, Murray International scams which attempt to gain personal information with Trust PLC, 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY or by email which to commit identity fraud or could be boiler room investment.
scams where a payment from an investor is required to release the supposed payment for their shares.
Direct These callers do not work for Aberdeen and any third party Investors can buy and sell shares in the Company directly making such offers has no link with Aberdeen.
Aberdeen through a stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, never makes these types of offers and does not cold-call accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively, for investors in this way.
If investors have any doubt over the retail clients, shares can be bought directly through veracity of a caller, they should not offer any personal Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeens information, end the call and contact Aberdeens investor Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
services centre using the details provided below.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Dividend Tax Allowance Aberdeen runs an Investment Plan for Children the From April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an Childrens Plan which covers a number of investment annual 5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across companies under its management including the Company.
an individuals entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, Anyone can invest in the Childrens Plan, including parents, individuals will pay tax on their dividend income at a rate grandparents and family friends subject to the eligibility dependent on their income tax bracket and personal criteria as stated within the terms and conditions.
The Company will continue to provide investments are free of dealing charges on the initial registered shareholders with a confirmation of dividends paid purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bidby the Company and this should be included with any other offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant dividend income received when calculating and reporting amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per trust, while total dividend income received to HMRC.
It is the regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
Investors shareholders responsibility to include all dividend income simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on all when calculating any tax liability.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in the Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by Keeping You Informed instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with For internet users, detailed data on the Company, including other schemes of this type, all investments are held in price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights available from the Companys website murray-intl.
and the TrustNet website trustnet.
Alternatively you can call 0808 500 0040 free when dialling from a UK Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan landline for Company information.
AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager the Company can be purchased.
There are no dealing charges or performance, please telephone the AAM Customer on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will Services Department direct private investors on 0808 500 suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be 0040.
Alternatively, internet users may email AAM at a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 250, inv.
com or write to Aberdeen while regular savers may invest from 100 per month.
Investment Trusts, PO Box 11020, Chelmsford, Essex CM99 Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 2DB.
There is no restriction on Murray International Trust PLC 77 Corporate Information Investor Information continued how long an investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers AJ Bell You Invest: Alliance Trust Savings: Barclays can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in Stockbrokers: Charles Stanley Direct: Halifax Share Dealing: writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this Hargreave Hale: Idealing: Interactive Investor: Selftrade: The type, all investments are held in nominee accounts.
Investors Share Centre: Stocktrade: Hargreaves Lansdown: TD Direct have full voting and other rights of share ownership.
Discretionary Private Client Stockbrokers If you have a large sum to invest, you may wish to contact a Stocks and Shares ISA discretionary private client stockbroker.
They can manage An investment of up to 15,240 can be made in the tax year your entire portfolio of shares and will advise you on your 2016 2017 rising to 20,000 in 2017 2018.
To find a private client stockbroker visit the administration charge is 24 VAT, calculated annually and Wealth Management Association at thewma.
applied on 31 March or the last business day in March and collected soon thereafter either by direct debit or, if there is Independent Financial Advisers no valid direct debit mandate in place, from the available To find an adviser who recommends on investment trusts, cash in the Plan prior to the distribution or reinvestment of visit unbiased.
any income, or, where there is insufficient cash in the Plan, from the sale of investments held in the Plan.
Investors have Regulation of Stockbrokers full voting and other rights of share ownership.
Under current Before approaching a stockbroker, always check that they are legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of capital gains regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority: tax.
uk firms systemsreporting register search or email: register@fca.
uk ISA Transfer You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to Suitable for Retail NMPI Status us which can be invested in the Company while retaining The Companys securities are intended for investors primarily your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA in the UK including retail investors, professional-advised transfer is 1,000, subject to a minimum per trust of 250. private clients and institutional investors who are wanting to benefit from the growth prospects of global companies by Literature Request Service investment in a relatively risk averse investment trust and For literature and application forms for the Company and the who understand and are willing to accept the risks of Aberdeen Groups investment trust products, please contact: exposure to equities.
Investors should consider consulting a financial adviser who specialises in advising on the Telephone: 0808 500 4000 acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring Email: aam@lit-request.
Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and merits of such an investment and should have sufficient For information on the Investment Plan for Children, Share resources to bear any loss that may result.
Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its PO Box 11020 securities can be recommended by a financial adviser to Chelmsford ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Essex, CM99 2DB Conduct Authoritys FCA rules in relation to nonTelephone: 0808 500 00 40 free from a UK landline mainstream pooled investments NMPIs and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The Companys Terms and conditions for the AAM managed savings products shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply can be found under the literature section of invtrusts.
to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Online dealing There are a number of online dealing platforms for private Note investors that offer share dealing, ISAs and other means to Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the invest in the Company.
Stock market and currency movements may cause stockbroking services allow you to trade online, manage your the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well portfolio and buy UK listed shares.
These sites do not give as rise and investors may not get back the amount they advice.
Some comparison websites also look at dealing rates originally invested.
Some well-known online providers, which can be found through internet search engines, include: 78 Annual Report 2016 As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts all authorised Alternative Investment Fund Managers are purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference required to comply with the AIFMD Remuneration Code.
In between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the accordance with the Remuneration Code, the AIFMs market makers spread.
remuneration policy is available from the Company Secretaries, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC on request Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any see contact details on page 87 and the remuneration tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the disclosures in respect of the AIFMs reporting period for the investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax year ended 30 September 2016 are available on the treatment of ISAs may be changed by future legislation.
Leverage AIFMD Disclosures unaudited The table below sets out the current maximum permitted The Company has appointed Aberdeen Fund Managers limit and actual level of leverage for the Company: Limited as its alternative investment fund manager and BNY Mellon as its depositary under the AIFMD.
Aberdeen and the Gross Commitment Company are required to make certain disclosures available Method Method to investors in accordance with the Alternative Investment Maximum level of Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
Those disclosures that leverage 2.50:1 2.00:1 are required to be made pre-investment are included within a Actual level at 31 pre-investment disclosure document PIDD which can be December 2016 1.12:1 1.12:1 found on the Companys website murray-intl.
There have been no material changes to the disclosures contained There have been no breaches of the maximum level during within the PIDD since its most recent publication in March the period and no changes to the maximum level of leverage 2016. employed by the Company.
There is no right of re-use of collateral or any guarantees granted under the leveraging The periodic disclosures as required under the AIFMD to arrangement.
Changes to the information contained either investors are made below: within this Annual Report or the PIDD in relation to any Information on the investment strategy, geographic and special arrangements in place, the maximum level of leverage sector investment focus and principal stock exposures are which AFML may employ on behalf of the Company: the included in the Strategic Report.
right of use of collateral or any guarantee granted under any None of the Companys assets are subject to special leveraging arrangement: or any change to the position in arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
relation to any discharge of liability by the Depositary will be The Strategic Report, note 18 to the Financial Statements notified via a regulatory news service without undue delay in and the PIDD together set out the risk profile and risk accordance with the AIFMD.
There have been no changes to the risk management systems in place in the period The information on pages 77 to 79 has been approved for the under review and no breaches of any of the risk limits set, purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets with no breach expected.
Act 2000 as amended by the Financial Services Act 2012 by There are no new arrangements for managing the liquidity Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited which is authorised and of the Company or any material changes to the liquidity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority management systems and procedures employed by AFML.
