CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Independence and Composition The Board, chaired by William Frewen who is responsible for its leadership and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, currently consists of four non-executive Directors.
The biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are listed on page 19, and demonstrate a breadth of investment, accounting and professional experience.
Mr Battey as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee acts as Senior Independent Director when necessary.
However, the Board considers that all the Directors have different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The balance and independence of the Board is kept under review by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, details of which can be found on page 39.
The Chairman and all Directors are all currently independent of the Companys Investment Manager, the Company Secretary, the Administrator and Sub-Administrator.
The Directors consider that there are no factors, as set out in the AIC Code, which compromise the Directors independence and that they all contribute to the affairs of the Company in an adequate manner.
The Board reviews the independence of all Directors annually and is re-assessed at each Board meeting.
The Company Secretary, C. L. Secretaries Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Carey Group, through its representative acts as Secretary to the Board and Committees and in doing so it: assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant documentation: organises induction of new Directors: and is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
Directors Appointment No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Directors have agreed letters of appointment with the Company, copies of which are available for review by shareholders at the Registered Office and will be available at the 2017 AGM.
William Frewen, Richard Battey and Sandra Platts have served since incorporation of the Company.
Rupert Dorey has served since 1 March 2015.
Any Director may resign in writing to the Board at any time.
In accordance with the AIC Code, as a FTSE 250 company, all Directors will be subject to re-election annually by shareholders.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviewed the independence, contributions and performance of all Directors during the 2016 Board Evaluation process and have determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to propose that all Directors are proposed for re-election.
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Board has adopted a policy on tenure that is considered appropriate for an investment company.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, leads to a closer relationship with the Investment Manager or necessarily affects a Directors independence.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well balanced and will be refreshed from time to time by the appointment of new Directors with the skills and experience necessary to replace those lost by Directors retirements.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current experience of various areas relevant to the Companys business.
Directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
Other business relationships, including those that conflict or may potentially conflict with the interests of the Company, are taken into account when appointing Board members and are monitored on a regular basis.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 27
