FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 5 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The Derivatives assets and liabilities are offset in accordance with the guidance in sections 210-20-45 and 815-10-45 to determine the net amounts presented in the Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
All derivative trades have an enforceable master netting agreement so the net amount based on this is the same as the net amount disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
As at 31 December 2016, there were two counterparties for the Forwards 31 December 2015: two.
Due to changes in observable inputs, the Company transferred securities from Level 2 to Level 3 and from Level 3 to Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Level 3 assets are valued using single broker quotes.
The following table presents the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statement of Operations in conformity with US GAAP.
For the year ended For the year ended Primary underlying risk 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 $ $ Net realised loss gain on derivatives 288,288,255 102,456,812 Net change in unrealised appreciation depreciation on derivatives 48,360,316 18,342,698 Total 239,927,939 84,114,114 Primary underlying risks credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk associated with the derivatives are explained in Note 6.
There is no collateral for forward contracts.
The Company presents the gain or loss on derivatives in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Company uses independent third party vendors to price its portfolio.
As part of its valuation process, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager evaluates the number of broker quotes that combine to make up the valuation provided by these vendors and if it believes that the number of broker quotes is not sufficient to ensure a Level 2 price it designates those positions Level 3.
As at 31 December 2016 the Alternative Investment Fund Manager designated 16 31 December 2015:10 of its floating rate senior secured loans and none of its floating rate bonds 31 December 2015:Nil at Level 3.
NOTE 6 RISKS The Company is subject to various risks, including, but not limited to, market risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk, geographic concentration risk and liquidity risk.
The Investment Manager attempts to monitor and manage these risks on an ongoing basis.
Market risk is the potential for changes in the value of investments.
Market risk includes interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk.
Interest rate risk primarily results from exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates and credit spreads.
Floating rate investments, such as senior secured loans, typically receive a fixed coupon, which is linked to a variable base rate, usually LIBOR or EURIBOR.
As such income earned will be affected by changes in the variable component albeit downward moves are likely to be capped by the LIBOR EURIBOR floors that are prevalent in the majority of transactions.
The Company invests predominantly in floating rate investments, however, it does have some exposure to fixed rate investments which are subject to interest rate risk through movements in their market price when interest rate change.
Price risk is the risk that the price of the security will fall.
The Investment Manager manages the exposure to price risk by diversifying the portfolio.
74 NEUBERGER BERMAN NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 6 RISKS CONTINUED Foreign exchange risk arises from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to Pound Sterling and Euro investments and share issue proceeds.
The Company makes use of hedging techniques, as part of its risk management strategy, including but not limited to the use of forward exchange contracts to mitigate its exposure to this risk.
These instruments involve market risk, credit risk, or both kinds of risks.
Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from movement in currency and securities values and interest rates.
Credit Risk The Company maintains positions in a variety of securities, derivative financial instruments and cash and cash equivalents in accordance with its investment strategy and guidelines.
The Companys trading activities expose the Company to counterparty credit risk from brokers, dealers and other financial institutions collectively, counterparties with which it transacts business.
Counterparty credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a trade will fail to meet an obligation that it has entered into with the Company, resulting in a financial loss to the Company.
The Companys policy with respect to counterparty credit risk is to minimize its exposure to counterparties with perceived higher risk of default by dealing only with counterparties that meet the credit standards set out by the Investment Manager.
All the Company's assets other than derivative financial instruments were held by the Custodian.
The Custodian segregates the assets of the Company from the Custodians assets and other Custodian clients.
The Investment Manager believes the risk is low with respect to any losses as a result of this concentration.
The Company conducts its trading activities with respect to non-derivative positions with a number of counterparties.
Counterparty credit risk borne by these transactions is mitigated by trading with multiple counterparties.
In addition, the Company trades in over-the-counter OTC derivative instruments.
The Company is subject to counterparty credit risk related to the potential inability of counterparties to these derivative transactions to perform their obligations to the Company.
The Companys exposure to counterparty credit risk associated with counterparty nonperformance is generally limited to the fair value derivative assets and liabilities of OTC derivatives reported as net assets, net of collateral received or paid, pursuant to agreements with each counterparty.
The Investment Manager attempts to reduce the counterparty credit risk of the Company by establishing certain credit terms in its ISDA Master Agreements with netting terms with counterparties, and through credit policies and monitoring procedures.
Under ISDA Master Agreements in certain circumstances e. g. when a credit event such as a default occurs all outstanding transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is due or payable in settlement of all transactions.
The Company receives and gives collateral in the form of cash and marketable securities and it is subject to the ISDA Master Agreement Credit Support Annex.
This means that securities received given as collateral can be pledged or sold during the term of the transaction.
The terms also give each party the right to terminate the related transactions on the other partys failure to post collateral.
The Company may invest in a range of bank debt investments and corporate and other bonds.
Until such investments are sold or are paid in full at maturity, the Company is exposed to issuer credit risk, relating to whether the issuer will make interest and or principal payments on their debt obligations.
Geographic Concentration Risk The Company may invest a relatively large percentage of its assets in issuers located in a single country, a small number of countries, or a particular geographic region.
As a result, the Companys performance may be closely aligned with the market, currency or economic, political or regulatory conditions and developments in those countries or that region, and could be more volatile than the performance of more geographically diversified investments.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 75
