FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED CONTINUED Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Valuation of investments The internal control environment in place at the Sub-Administrator over the valuation of the investment portfolio and the production of the net As detailed in Note 5, the investment asset value for the Group was understood and evaluated.
portfolio at the year-end was valued at $1,256.9 million, comprising floating rate We assessed the accounting policy for investment valuation for compliance senior secured loans of $1,213.9 million with accounting standards, performed testing to check that investment and fixed and floating rates bonds of $43.0 valuation had been accounted for in accordance with the stated accounting million.
We focussed on the valuation of policy and determined that the accounting policy complied with accounting this investment portfolio because it standards and had been consistently applied.
represents the principal element of the net We tested the valuation of the investment portfolio of floating rate senior asset value as disclosed on the consolidated secured loans and fixed and floating rate bonds by independently agreeing statement of assets and liabilities.
the prices used in the valuation to a range of third party providers.
No misstatements were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Back testing was performed for a sample of floating rate senior secured loan disposals to compare the sales transaction price to the most recently recorded valuation provided by the third party pricing provider prior to the disposal, which provided additional evidence over the reliability of the valuation data from the third party providers engaged in the valuation process.
We also assessed the overall appropriateness of managements decision to engage the specific third party pricing providers to assist with the investment portfolio valuation, based on their competency and objectivity.
No matters were noted which required reporting to those charged with governance.
An assessment was made to determine whether the Manager used any estimation techniques in determining the valuation of any securities in the investment portfolio.
We identified no indication that such techniques had been used.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the company overview section, the financial highlights, the chairmans statement, the investment managers report, the strategic report, the directors report, the corporate governance report, the audit and risk committee report, the management engagement committee report, the remuneration and nomination committee report, the directors remuneration report, the directors responsibilities statement and the page detailing the contact details of the advisers but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Other than as specified in our report, our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
