FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy The determination of the Directors fees is a matter dealt with by the RNC and the Board.
The RNC considers the remuneration policy annually to ensure that it remains appropriately positioned.
Directors will review the fees paid to the boards of directors of similar investment companies.
No Director is to be involved in decisions relating individual aspects of his or her own remuneration, however the Board as a whole sets the level of directors fees.
No Director has a service contract with the Company and Directors appointments may be terminated at any time by one months written notice with no compensation payable at termination.
The Companys policy is for the Directors to be remunerated in the form of fees, payable quarterly in arrears.
No Director has any entitlement to a pension, and the Company has not awarded any share options or long-term performance incentives to any of the Directors.
No element of the Directors remuneration is performance related.
Directors are authorised to claim reasonable expenses from the Company in relation to the performance of their duties.
The Companys policy is that the fees payable to the Directors should reflect the time spent by the Board on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities borne by the Directors and should be sufficient to enable high calibre candidates to be recruited.
During the year ended 2016, the policy was for the Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the other Committees to be paid a higher fee than the other Directors in recognition of their more onerous roles and more time spent.
The Board may amend the level of remuneration paid within the limits of the Companys Articles.
The Companys Articles limit the aggregate fees payable to the Board of Directors to a total of 500,000 per annum.
The Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee may consult with principal shareholders of the Company should it be proposed to exceed the aggregate limit.
Directors Fees Policy Objective Operation Maximum Potential Value Performance Metrics Used To recognize time spent and the Directors fees are set by the Current fee levels are shown in Directors are not remunerated responsibilities borne and to Remuneration and Nomination the remuneration report based on performance and are attract high caliber candidates Committee not eligible to participate in any who have the necessary The Companys Articles of performance related experience and skills Annual fees are paid quarterly in Incorporation limit the aggregate arrangements arrears fees payable to the Board of Directors to a total of 500,000 Fees are reviewed annually and per annum against those for Directors in companies of similar scale and complexity Fees were last reviewed in November 2016 Directors do not receive benefits and do not participate in any incentive or pension plans 42 NEUBERGER BERMAN
