CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Conflict of Interests continued None of the Directors had a material interest in any contract, which is significant to the Companys business.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 44 provides information on the remuneration and interests of the Directors.
Page 23 details Directors appointments on other listed companies.
Performance Evaluation The performance of the Board, its committees and the Directors was reviewed by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in November 2016 by means of an internal questionnaire.
The Company Secretary collated the results of the questionnaires and the consolidated results were reviewed and discussed by the Board, as lead by the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
No areas of concern were raised.
As a result of the suggestions made in this years Board performance evaluation, the Board has agreed: That all Directors are considered independent: All Directors should be proposed for reappointment at the 2017 AGM: and The Board composition was diverse and appropriate in regards to skills, number, experience and gender.
In addition, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee excluding Mr Frewen reviewed the performance of the Chairman in his role led by the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
All Directors are members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and as such it is not considered necessary for the SID to lead the discussions, as all Directors participate.
The independence of all Directors was also considered.
The Chairman reviews each individual Directors contribution.
The Board intends to appoint an external consultant to conduct an externally facilitated review in 2017, and will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
Induction Information and Professional Development Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and its internal controls.
Regulatory and legislative changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise along with changes to best practice from, amongst others, the Company Secretary and the Auditor.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time on relevant topics and issues.
In addition, Directors attend relevant seminars and events to allow them to continually refresh their skills and knowledge and keep up with changes within the investment company industry.
The Chairman reviewed the training and development needs of each Director during the annual Board evaluation process, and is satisfied that all Directors actively keep up to date with industry developments and issues.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he she will be provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and his her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also spend time with representatives of the Investment Manager in order to learn more about their processes and procedures.
Independent Advice The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the Directors feels it is necessary to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense.
A procedure has been adopted to enable them to do so, which is managed by the Company Secretary.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 29
