FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Tenure of Non-Executive Directors continued The dates of appointment of all Directors are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report and a summary on shareholder elections is provided below.
Date first elected Years from first Considered to be by shareholders election to 2017 AGM independent by the Board William Frewen June 2012 5 Yes Sandra Platts June 2012 5 Yes Richard Battey June 2012 5 Yes Rupert Dorey June 2015 2 Yes Re-election of Directors William Frewen, Richard Battey, Rupert Dorey and Sandra Platts submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held on 14 June 2017.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM continue to be effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
Board Diversity The Board considers that its members have a balance of skills and experience which are relevant to the Company.
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report and believes in the value and importance of diversity in the boardroom but it does not consider it is appropriate or in the interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets for gender or nationality on the Board.
At 31 December 2016 the Board had 25% female representation.
The Board continues to focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained from different backgrounds enhance the Board.
Board Responsibilities The Board meets at least four times each year and deals with the important aspects of the Companys affairs including the setting and monitoring of investment strategy, and the review of investment performance.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments, in line with the investment policy and strategy set by the Board.
The Investment Manager together with the Company Secretary, Administrator and Sub-Administrator also ensures that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information relating to the Company and its portfolio of investments.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling Directors to question any matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board have been defined and a procedure adopted for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
This is available on the Companys website www.
Conflict of Interests Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts of interest to the Board as they arise for consideration and the Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise conflicts if deemed appropriate.
The Directors have undertaken to notify the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any new potential conflicts of interest that would need to be approved by the Board.
Only Directors who have no material interest in the matter being considered will be able to participate in the Board approval process.
It has also been agreed that the Directors will advise the Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any proposed external appointment.
