FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External Audit The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
The Audit and Risk Committee received a detailed audit plan from PwC identifying their assessment of the significant audit risks.
For the 2016 financial year the significant audit risks identified were in relation to the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
These significant risks were tracked through the year and the Audit and Risk Committee challenged the work performed by the auditor to test both the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
In addition, the Audit and Risk Committee focused on understanding the work performed over the valuation of investments.
The Audit and Risk Committee assess the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing these matters through the reporting received from PwC at both the half-year and year-end.
In addition, the Audit and Risk Committee seeks feedback from the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, the Administrator and Sub-Administrator on the effectiveness of the audit process.
For the 2016 financial year, the Audit and Risk Committee was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the significant and other key areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
During the year, the Committee performed its annual review of the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditor and considered the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Audit Quality Review of PwCs previous audit work.
The Committee concluded that the effectiveness of the external auditor and the audit process were satisfactory and recommended to the Board the reappointment of PwC as external auditor for the 2017 financial year.
Appointment and Independence The Audit and Risk Committee considers the reappointment of PwC, including the rotation of the audit partner, and assesses their independence on an annual basis.
PwC is required under Ethical Standards to rotate the audit partner responsible for the audit every five years.
The current audit partner has overseen the audit of the Company for the four financial years to 31 December 2016.
PwC has been the Companys statutory auditor since its stock exchange listing in 2011 and has to date audited all six financial years to 31 December 2016.
The Company is incorporated in Guernsey, and therefore despite being listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and being in the FTSE350 Index, it is not required to comply with The Statutory Audit Services for Larger Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order which came into force in the UK on 1 January 2015.
The Audit and Risk Committee does however keep these developments under review when determining policy on audit tendering and therefore the Company will seek to comply with the provisions of the Order.
In the past the Company has been guided by the UK Corporate Governance Code as to the recommendation to put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
As this year is the sixth for publishing the Companys Annual Report and the Company has not yet completed a competitive tender process for auditor appointments, the Company is presently minded that it will complete such a tender process in respect of the audit of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2020.
The Company presently believes that this is in the best interests of shareholders in view of the quality and level of service presently being provided by PwC.
Having carried out a review of the performance of PwC for this current financial reporting period, it is currently expected that PwC will remain in office and a resolution to reappoint them for the 2017 audit will therefore be proposed at the AGM.
In its assessment of the independence of the external auditor, the Audit and Risk Committee receives details of any relationships between the Company and PwC that may have a bearing on their independence and receives confirmation that the external auditor is independent of the Company.
The Audit and Risk Committee approved the fees for audit services for 2016 after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed, and after being satisfied by PwC that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
