NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements have been presented on a going concern basis and on the accrual basis of accounting in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP.
The Company is regarded as an Investment Company and it follows the accounting and reporting requirements of the FASB ASC 946.
The Board believes that the underlying assumptions are appropriate and that the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements therefore present a true and fair financial position.
Basis of consolidation The Financial Statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2016.
The subsidiaries are NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 1 S.. r. l. which in turn holds a wholly-owned subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S.. r. l. The Company and all its wholly owned subsidiaries have United States Dollars as their functional and reporting currency.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Use of estimates The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with US GAAP requires that the Directors make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Such estimates and associated assumptions are generally based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and form the basis of making the judgments about attributing values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may vary from such accounting estimates in amounts that may have a material impact on the financial information of the Company.
Revenue recognition Interest earned on debt instruments is accounted for net of applicable withholding taxes and is recognised as income over the terms of the loans.
Discounts received or premiums paid in connection with the acquisition of loans are amortised into interest income using the effective interest method over the contractual life of the related loan.
If a loan pays off prior to maturity, the recognition of the fees and costs is accelerated as appropriate.
The Company raises a provision when the collection of interest is deemed doubtful.
Cash and cash equivalents The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than 90 days that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near maturity that they represent insignificant risk of changes in value.
Valuation of investments The Company carries investments on its Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities at fair value in accordance with US GAAP, with changes in fair value recognised within the Consolidated Statement of Operations in each reporting period.
Quoted investments are valued according to their bid price as at the close of the relevant reporting date.
Investments in private securities are priced at the bid price using a pricing service for private loans.
Asset backed securities are valued according to their bid price.
If a price cannot be ascertained from the above sources, the Company will seek bid prices from third party broker dealer quotes for the investments.
The Investment Manager believes that bid price is the best estimate of fair value and is in line with the valuation policy adopted by the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 65 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Valuation of investments continued In cases where no third party price is available, or where the Investment Manager determines that the provided price is not an accurate representation of the fair value of the investment, the Investment Manager determines the valuation based on the Investment Managers fair valuation policy.
The overall criterion for fair value is a price at which the securities involved would change hands in a transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither being under compulsion to buy or sell and both having the same knowledge of the relevant facts.
Consistent with the above criterion, the following criteria are considered when applicable: Valuation of other securities by the same issuer for which market quotations are available: Reasons for absence of market quotations: The credit quality of the issuer and the related economics: Recent sales prices and or bid and ask quotations for the security: Value of similar securities of issuers in the same or similar industries for which market quotations are available: Economic outlook of the industry: Issuers position in the industry: The financial information of the issuer: and The nature and duration of any restriction on disposition of the security.
Derivative financial instruments The Company may, from time to time, hold derivative financial instruments for the purposes of hedging foreign currency exposure.
These derivatives are measured at fair value in accordance with US GAAP, with changes in fair value recognised within the Consolidated Statement of Operations in each reporting period.
Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of the over the counter OTC derivative products, such as foreign exchange contracts, can be modelled taking into account the counterparties credit worthiness and using a series of techniques, including simulation models.
Many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgments and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets.
The forward exchange contracts valued by the Company using pricing models fall into this category and are categorised within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
As shares are denominated in U. S. Dollars and Pound Sterling and investments are denominated in U. S. Dollars, Euro or Sterling holders of any class of shares are subject to foreign currency fluctuations between the currency in which such shares are denominated and the currency of the investments made by the Company.
Consequently, the Investment Manager seeks to engage in currency hedging between the U. S. Dollar and any other currency in which the assets of the Company or a class of shares is denominated, subject to suitable hedging contracts such as forward currency exchange contracts being available in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to the Investment Manager, in their sole and absolute discretion.
Note 5 details the gross and net derivative asset and liability position by contract type and the amount for those derivative contracts for which netting is permissible under US GAAP.
The derivative assets and liabilities have been netted where an enforceable master netting arrangement is in place.
