FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE MEC REPORT Membership Sandra Platts - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Richard Battey Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director Key Objectives To review performance of all service providers including the Investment Manager.
Responsibilities To annually review the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all service providers including the Investment Manager : Review and make recommendations on any proposed amendment to the Investment Management Agreement: and To review the performance of, and contractual arrangements with the Investment Manager including: Monitor and evaluate the Investment Managers investment performance and, if necessary providing appropriate guidance: To consider whether an independent appraisal of the Investment Managers services should be made: To consider requiring the Investment Manager to provide attribution and volatility analyses and considering whether these should be published: Review the level and method of remuneration and the notice period, using peer group comparisons: and To ensure that the Investment Manager has a sound system of risk management and internal controls and that these are maintained to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Companys assets.
MEC Meetings Only members of the MEC and the Secretary have the right to attend MEC meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager, Administrator and Sub-Administrator may be invited by the MEC to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
Main Activities during the Year The MEC met once during the year and reviewed the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all service providers as at 16 November 2016 including the Investment Manager.
The MEC reviewed the terms of reference for the MEC and considered that they remained appropriate.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager and other Service Providers The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and a formal review of all service providers is conducted annually by the MEC.
As a result of the 2016 annual review it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued appointment of the current Investment Manager and other service providers on the terms agreed is in the interest of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Board considers that the Investment Manager has extensive investment management resources and wide experience in managing investments and is satisfied with the quality and competitiveness of the fee arrangements of the Companys other service providers.
Sandra Platts On behalf of the Management Engagement Committee 5 April 2017 38 NEUBERGER BERMAN
