FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group as at 31 December 2016, and of their consolidated financial performance and their consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
What we have audited The Groups consolidated financial statements comprise: the consolidated statement of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2016: the consolidated condensed schedule of investments as at 31 December 2016: the consolidated statement of operations for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in net assets for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants IESBA Code.
We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA Code.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality was $25.321 million which represents approximately 2.0% of overall Group net assets Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Guernsey and Luxembourg components of the Group.
The components where we performed full scope audit procedures accounted for 100% of total net assets, net investment income and net realised and unrealised loss.
Key audit matters Valuation of investments 46 NEUBERGER BERMAN INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED CONTINUED Audit scope As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements.
In particular, we considered where the directors made subjective judgements: for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Company is based in Guernsey with two underlying subsidiaries located in Luxembourg and engages Neuberger Berman Europe Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of the Company and both of the underlying subsidiaries.
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements from information provided by Quintillion Limited the SubAdministrator to whom US Bancorp Fund Services Guernsey Limited the Designated Manager and Administrator has, with the consent of the directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
Scoping was performed at the Group level, irrespective of whether the underlying transactions took place within the Company or within either of the subsidiaries.
The transactions relating to the Company and the subsidiaries are maintained by the SubAdministrator on a single consolidated general ledger and therefore we were not required to engage with component auditors from another PwC global network firm operating under our instructions.
Our testing was therefore performed on a consolidated basis using thresholds which are determined with reference to the overall Group performance materiality and the risks of material misstatement identified.
We conducted our audit work both in Guernsey and on site at the Sub-Administrator in Dublin and we tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Group and the involvement of the third parties referred to above, together with their accounting processes and controls.
As noted in the overview, the components of the Group where we performed full scope audit procedures accounted for 100% of Group total net assets, net investment income and net realised and unrealised loss.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error.
They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Overall Group materiality $25.321 million How we determined it 2.00% of overall Group net assets Rationale for the materiality We believe overall Group net assets to be the appropriate basis for determining materiality benchmark since the primary consideration for investors is asset preservation, over and above income generation.
The key statistic used for periodic reporting to investors is total return, which is a calculation comprising both movements in the valuation of the portfolio and the income generated from the portfolio.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.266 million, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 47
