FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED CONTINUED Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements continued We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: proper accounting records have not been kept: or the consolidated financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters which we have reviewed: the directors statement set out on page 17 in relation to going concern.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern: the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Groups compliance with the ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the members as a body in accordance with Section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
John Roche For and on behalf of  CI LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 5 April 2017 50 NEUBERGER BERMAN
