CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Shareholder Engagement continued The Board believes that the AGM provides an appropriate forum for shareholders to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
All Directors will attend the 2017 AGM.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman of the Board, the Senior Independent Director, the Audit and Risk Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee at the AGM.
The Annual and Interim Reports, monthly fact sheet and monthly holdings are available to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication on the London Stock Exchange of the NAV of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Board is informed of relevant promotional documents issued by the Investment Manager.
All documents issued by the Company can be viewed on the website, www.
2017 AGM The 2017 AGM will be held in Guernsey on 14 June 2017.
The Notice for the AGM sets out the ordinary and special resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
It is the intention of the Board that the Notice of AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the meeting and specifically related to the resolutions proposed are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address given on page 83.
At other times, the Company Secretary responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
The proxy votes cast, including details of votes withheld are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results are published on our website and announced via a RIS Service.
Where the Board considers that a significant number of votes have been lodged against a proposed resolution, the Board intends to identify those shareholders and further understand their views.
Board Meetings The Board meets at least quarterly.
Certain matters are considered at all quarterly board meetings including the performance of the investments, NAV and share price and associated matters such as asset allocation, risks, strategy, marketing and investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Consideration is also given to administration and corporate governance matters, and where applicable, reports are received from the board committees.
Directors unable to attend a board meeting are provided with the board papers and can discuss issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or another non-executive Director.
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and its committees in the 2016 financial year Remuneration and Management Ad-hoc Board Audit and Risk Nomination Engagement Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings during the year 4 8 3 1 1 William Frewen 4 0 2 1 1 Rupert Dorey 4 4 3 1 1 Richard Battey 4 5 3 1 1 Sandra Platts 4 6 3 1 1 It is not deemed cost effective for the Company for Mr Frewen to travel to Guernsey for the ad-hoc meetings to approve dividends in line with the Companys dividend policy: he does, however, attend all quarterly board meetings.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 31
