FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 6 RISKS CONTINUED Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its obligations as and when these fall due.
Liquidity risk is managed by the Investment Manager to ensure that the Company maintains sufficient working capital in cash or near cash form so as to be able to meet the Companys ongoing requirements as they fall due.
Participation Commitments With respect to the senior loans the Company may: 1 invest in assignments: 2 act as a participant in primary lending syndicates: or 3 invest in participations.
If a Company purchases a participation of a senior loan interest, the Company would typically enter into a contractual agreement with the lender or other third party selling the participation, rather than directly with the borrower.
As such, the Company not only assumes the credit risk of the borrower, but also that of the selling participant or other persons inter positioned between the Company and the borrower.
As of 31 December 2016, there were no such outstanding participation commitments in the Company.
Other Risks Legal, tax and regulatory changes could occur during the term of the Company that may adversely affect the Company.
The regulatory environment for alternative investment companies is evolving, and changes in the regulation of investment companies may adversely affect the value of investments held by the Company or the ability of the Company to pursue its trading strategies.
The effect of any future regulatory change on the Company could be substantial and adverse.
The Board has considered the specific risks faced by the Company as a result of Brexit.
At the portfolio level, the Board expects the impact of Brexit to be limited given the hedging arrangements in place and the robust investment process the Investment Manager has always adopted and its positioning in better rated, performing issuers.
At the Company level the impact could be felt more directly through volatility of the Companys share price.
The Board seeks to mitigate this risk by continuing to address any imbalances in supply and demand of the Companys shares through the use of further share buybacks in line with its stated policy.
NOTE 7 INCOME TAXES The Company is exempt from Guernsey tax on income derived from non-Guernsey sources.
However, certain of its underlying investments may generate income that is subject to tax in other jurisdictions, principally in the United States.
The Company files tax returns for its Luxembourg entities.
In accordance with US GAAP, management is required to determine whether a tax position of the Company is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position.
The tax benefit to be recognised is measured as the largest amount of benefit that it has 50% or higher chance of being realised upon ultimate settlement.
fide-recognition of a tax benefit previously recognised could result in the Company recording a tax liability that would reduce net assets.
This policy also provides guidance on thresholds, measurement, fide-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in periods, disclosure, and transition that intendeds to provide better financial statement comparability among different entities.
As of 31 December 2016, the Company has recorded no liability for net unrecognised tax benefits relating to uncertain tax positions it has taken or expects to take in future tax returns 31 December 2015: Nil.
