Notice of Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your NEXT plc NEXT and or the Company shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying Form of Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was affected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting AGM of NEXT will be held at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester LE19 1SW on Thursday 19 May 2016 at 9.30 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 14 as Ordinary Resolutions and 15 to 18 as Special Resolutions.
Further information on these resolutions can be found in the Directors Report on pages 38 to 42 and in the appendix to this Notice.
Biographies of the directors who are all seeking re-election are shown on pages 36 and 37 of the Annual Report.
To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditor for the year ended 30 January 2016.
To approve the Remuneration Report excluding the directors remuneration policy set out on pages 74 to 81 for the year ended 30 January 2016.
To declare a final dividend of 105p per share in respect of the year ended 30 January 2016.
To re-elect John Barton as a director.
To re-elect Steve Barber as a director.
To re-elect Caroline Goodall as a director.
To re-elect Amanda James as a director.
To re-elect Michael Law as a director.
To re-elect Francis Salway as a director.
To re-elect Jane Shields as a director.
To re-elect Dame Dianne Thompson as a director.
To re-elect Lord Wolfson as a director.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Directors authority to allot shares That: a. the directors be authorised to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act in the Company: i. in accordance with article 7 of the Companys articles of association the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 5,022,000 as reduced by any equity securities allotted under paragraph a ii below : and ii.
up to a maximum nominal amount of 10,044,000 as reduced by any equity securities allotted under paragraph a i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue as defined in article 8 of the Articles : b. in accordance with article 7 of the Articles this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 19 August 2017: and 140 nextplc.
co. uk 24471.04 11 April 2016 2:32 PM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information c. all previous unutilised authorities under section 551 of the 2006 Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the 2006 Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted on or after that date.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights That: a. in accordance with article 8 of the Articles the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: b. the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue, as defined in article 8 b ii of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 1,506,000 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital: c. in accordance with article 8 of the Articles this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 19 August 2017: and d. all previous unutilised authorities under sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that they are exercisable by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this new resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted on or after that date.
On-market purchase of own shares That in accordance with the 2006 Act, the Company be granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in section 693 of the 2006 Act of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may determine provided that: a. the authority conferred by this resolution shall be limited to the lesser of 22,585,000 ordinary shares of 10p each and no more than 14.99% of the issued ordinary shares outstanding at the date of the AGM, such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 17 below: b. the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares exclusive of expenses is 10p per ordinary share: c. the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share exclusive of expenses is an amount not more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share of the Company and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: d. the authority hereby conferred, unless renewed, shall expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2017 and 19 August 2017: e. the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and f. all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and which has or have not yet been executed.
Off-market purchases of own shares That, in accordance with section 694 of the 2006 Act, the proposed programme agreements to be entered into between the Company and any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank plc in the form produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are approved and the Company be and is authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any forward trades which may be effected or made from time to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the off-market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each, as more fully described in Appendix 1 on pages 143 to 144 the authority conferred by this special resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company held in 2017 and 19 August 2017, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 16 above.
Notice of general meetings That, in accordance with the Articles, a general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Seonna Anderson Company Secretary Registered Office: Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT 19 April 2016 142 nextplc.
co. uk 24471.04 11 April 2016 2:32 PM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase Appendix 1 activities, the Company is able to enter into irrevocable and non-discretionary programmes to allow it to buy Further information on resolution 17: shares during Close Periods.
Another method of providing Off-market purchases of own shares flexibility and reducing the cost, is for the Company to enter As noted in the Directors Report on page 40, approval into contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Close will be sought from shareholders to renew the Companys Periods.
As in previous years, the Company intends to enter authority to make off-market purchases of its shares.
into new agreements the Programme Agreements, with each of the Banks, under which the Company may although By virtue of special resolution number 17 passed at the it is not obliged to enter into contingent forward trades Companys 2015 AGM, shareholder authority was given to Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
the Company to make on-market purchases of shares.
This The terms of a CFT will be agreed between the Company authority was limited to a maximum of 22,915,000 shares and the Bank before it is entered into.
The Company is and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM held in committed to purchase shares under a CFT on the day it is 2016 or 1 August 2016.
At the same AGM, authority was executed subject to the terms of the Programme Agreement.
granted to the Company to make off-market purchases of The terms of each CFT will provide for the Company to shares for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period to be entered into with any of Goldman Sachs International, of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares UBSAG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and Barclays that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 30,000 Bank plc the Bank s. This authority was limited to a shares per week.
maximum of 3 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM to be held in 2016 or 1 August 2016.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular Pursuant to those authorities and up to 23 March 2016, the week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Company has bought back 2,203,873 shares for cancellation, Companys share price either not rising to, or above, a level representing 1.4% of its issued share capital as at the date of the Upper Suspension Level or, if applicable, falling the 2015 AGM, at a total cost of 150.7m.
No shares were to or below a level the Lower Suspension Level.
The bought back under contingent purchase contracts.
Suspension Levels and duration are determined by the Company and are set at the time the CFT is entered into.
Under sections 693 and 694 of the 2006 Act, the Company The Upper Suspension Level must be set between 104% and is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent 110% of the Companys share price at the start of the CFT.
purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder If the Company chooses to incorporate a Lower Suspension approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, Level, it must be set between 80% and 95% of the price at the under the rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing start of the CFT.
The inclusion of a Lower Suspension Level Rules the Company may not purchase its shares at a would help mitigate the Companys financial commitment time when any director is in receipt of unpublished price under a CFT if its share price was to fall below this level after sensitive information about the Company.
Accordingly, no the CFT had been executed.
If the Lower Suspension Level is purchases of shares would normally be made in periods not included, the level of discount to the market share price when the directors might be in receipt of unpublished price would be higher.
Typically, these include the periods from the Companys half year end up to the announcement of its interim results in September and from the January year end up to the announcement of the full year results in March each year.
These Close Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Company is able to purchase.
143 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 11 April 2016 2:32 PM Proof 2 Notice of Meeting The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the Forward Price may not exceed the higher of: i 105% the term of a CFT the Forward Price shall also be fixed at of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price will be determined shares of the Company according to the Daily Official by the Bank with reference to the volume weighted average List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business price for shares traded in NEXT on the day the CFT is entered days immediately preceding the date of purchase and into.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of independent trade of an ordinary share of the Company 10 pence the par value of an ordinary share.
The minimum and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary and maximum amount of time between entering a CFT and share of the Company as derived from the London Stock shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
Exchange Trading System: The Company will announce the details of each CFT on the the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share day it is entered into and any subsequent termination via the price at the time the CFT was effected: UK Listing Authoritys Regulatory News Service.
This structure the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 10p: would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount and to the market price as at the time each CFT commences, for so long as the Suspension Levels are not reached, only one CFT will be entered into on any particular day.
without breaching the Listing Rules.
If any Suspension Level Shares purchased under the Programme Agreements will is reached, the CFT would terminate automatically at that reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase time and no further shares would be purchased under that under any authority granted at the AGM on 19 May 2016 contract.
No shares will be purchased under Under the provisions of sections 693 and 694 of the 2006 that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
Act, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward The authority granted to the Company under this resolution Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 17, which held in 2017 or on 19 August 2017, whichever is the earlier, will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected be entered into between the Company and each of the before the expiry of such authority and which might be Banks.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase of the shorter of the period to the date of the next AGM of shares under the Programme Agreements will always to be held in 2017 or 19 August 2017 and will incorporate be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The except in the case of certain events of default or termination Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT events.
will be affected outside a Close Period but shares may be A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be purchased during a Close Period by the Company.
available at the AGM on 19 May 2016.
Copies will also be Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT available for inspection at the Companys registered office may be affected with the Banks at any time, provided that: at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT and at the offices of Slaughter and May at One Bunhill Row, London, the total maximum number of shares which the Company EC1Y 8YY during usual business hours until the date of the is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would AGM and at the Meeting itself.
be 3 million, representing circa 2.0% of its issued share capital at 23 March 2016: The total number of employee share awards and share options the total cost of shares that the Company would be to subscribe for shares outstanding at 23 March 2016 was permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not 5,075,009.
This represents 3.4% of the issued share capital exceed 200 million including costs : at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to both the existing authority for off-market purchases granted at the 2015 AGM which will expire at the 2016 AGM and the authority sought by this special resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 23 March 2016 would represent 3.5% of the reduced issued share capital.
co. uk 24471.04 11 April 2016 2:32 PM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Voting and proxies Meeting Formalities and Voting Whether or not you intend to attend the AGM in person, you Attending the Annual General Meeting are requested to complete and return the form of proxy to To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and in Equiniti, to arrive as soon as possible but in any event not accordance with the Articles and pursuant to Regulation 41 later than 9.30am on 17 May 2016 or 48 hours before any of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and for the adjourned meeting.
The completion and return of the form purposes of determining the number of votes shareholders of proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at may cast, shareholders must be registered in the register of the meeting if you so wish.
members of the Company as at 6pm on 17 May 2016 or, if A shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the AGM the meeting is adjourned, shareholders must be entered on may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote the Companys register of members at 6pm on the day two instead of him her, provided that each proxy is appointed to days before the adjourned meeting.
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not also be a shareholder The total number of the Companys issued share capital on of the Company and may vote on any other business which 23 March 2016, which is the latest practicable date before may properly come before the meeting.
the publication of this Notice, is 150,669,683 ordinary shares.
All of the ordinary shares carry one vote each and there are The statements of the rights of members in relation to the no shares held in treasury.
On a vote by a show of hands appointment of proxies in the above paragraph and in the every member who is present has one vote and every proxy paragraphs headed Electronic Voting and CREST voting present who has been duly appointed by a member entitled facility below do not apply to a Nominated Person.
On a poll vote every member who is rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary by registered members of the Company.
Nominated persons share they hold.
are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to In line with best practice, all resolutions will be put to poll their investments in the Company.
The directors believe a poll is more representative of shareholders voting intentions because shareholders votes In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint are counted according to the number of shares held and all holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment votes tendered are taken into account.
The procedures for submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted, the the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
senior holder being the first named of the joint holders to In respect of resolution 17 on off-market share purchase appear in the Companys share register.
contracts, the 2006 Act provides that this resolution will not A member who appoints as their proxy someone other than be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that the proxy which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant attends the meeting and is aware of the voting intention of to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights the member.
If no voting instruction is given, the proxy has carried by any of those shares in voting on the resolution discretion on whether and how to vote.
and the resolution would not have been passed if they had A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated not done so.
Therefore, NEXT intends to disregard any poll under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights votes which are cast in favour of resolution 17 attaching to a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between 3.0 million shares being the total maximum number of shares them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to have a right to be appointed or to have someone else the Programme Agreements from both the total number of appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person votes cast in favour of this resolution and the total number has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to of votes cast.
exercise it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right The results of the AGM will be posted on the Companys to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of website www.
co. uk after the meeting and notified voting rights.
to the UK Listing Authority.
145 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 11 April 2016 2:32 PM Proof 2 Notice of Meeting If a member submits more than one valid proxy appointment, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors the appointment received last before the latest time for the or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings Electronic voting and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the As an alternative to completing and returning a form of CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member proxy, you may submit your proxy electronically by accessing is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has our Registrars website www.
You will require appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his your unique Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action Number as printed on the proxy card.
The use by members as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted of the electronic proxy appointment service will be governed by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this by the terms and conditions of use which appear on the connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their website.
Electronic proxies must be completed and lodged CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in in accordance with the instructions on the website by no later particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning than 48 hours before the AGM.
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The CREST Manual is available at www.
CREST voting facility The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction Those shareholders who hold shares through CREST may in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the choose to appoint a proxy or proxies using CREST for the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
AGM to be held on 19 May 2016 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Corporate representatives Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
in relation to the same shares.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using Right to ask questions the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland questions.
The Company must answer any such question Limiteds specifications and must contain the information relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but required for such instructions, as described in the CREST no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in already been given on a website in the form of an answer order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of Company or the good order of the meeting that the question proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time Documents available for inspection as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent Copies of the following documents will be available for is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the inspection at the Companys registered office during usual manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of business hours and will be available for 15 minutes prior instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be to and for the duration of the AGM.
Copies will also be communicated to the appointee through other means.
available for inspection at the offices of Slaughter and May at One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY during usual business hours until the close of the AGM.
Terms of appointment of the non-executive directors The Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 17 146 nextplc.
co. uk 24471.04 11 April 2016 2:32 PM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Company website A full copy of the Annual Report which includes the Notice of Meeting, together with those for prior years, and other information required by section 311A of the 2006 Act can be found on the NEXT plc website at www.
Under section 527 of the 2006 Act members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 2006 Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act, and it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on its website.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
