Other Shareholder Information Registered office Registrars and transfer office Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Registered in England, no.
Calls to this number are Payment of dividend charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines The recommended final dividend, if approved, will be paid are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
on 1 August 2016 to holders of ordinary shares registered at close of business on 8 July 2016.
The ordinary shares will Shareholder enquiries trade ex-dividend from 7 July 2016.
The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti.
Annual General Meeting Please contact them online at www.
co. uk or using the contact details above if you have any enquiries about The AGM will be held at 9.30am on Thursday 19 May 2016 your NEXT shareholding including the following matters: at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester LE19 1SW.
The notice of the meeting on pages change of name and address: 140 to 147 sets out business to be transacted.
Full access is loss of share certificate, dividend warrant or tax voucher: available to the venue for those with special requirements.
if you receive duplicate sets of Company mailings as a Share price data result of an inconsistency in name or address and wish, if appropriate, to combine accounts.
L The Shareview Portfolio service from Equiniti gives you 2016 2015 more online information about your NEXT shares and other Share price at financial year end 69.25 71.50 investments.
For direct access to information held for you on Market capitalisation 10,434m 10,930m the share register, including recent balance movements and Share price movement during a daily valuation of investments held in your portfolio, visit year: www.
High mid-market quotation 80.15 72.15 Low mid-market quotation 65.25 61.35 For shareholders with disabilities Equiniti provides the following: Discount voucher if requested future communications produced by them The Company offers a discount voucher to any first named, will be sent in the appropriate format: registered shareholder holding a minimum number of textphone number 44 0 371 384 2255 for shareholders 100ordinary shares as at 1 April each year.
The shareholder with hearing difficulties: discount voucher entitles the recipient or their immediate family to a 25% discount against most purchases at any one hearing loop facilities in their buildings for use by visiting time of full price NEXT merchandise in NEXT Retail stores.
There is no limit on the value of goods that can be purchased at that time.
The voucher expires on 31 October of the year CREST in which it was issued.
It cannot be used in conjunction The Companys ordinary shares are available for electronic with any other discount voucher or offer, nor can it be used settlement.
for the purchase of gift cards, Sale merchandise, electrical goods, non-NEXT branded goods or purchases from NEXT Payments of dividends to mandated Directory unless ordered through one of our Retail stores.
accounts Shareholders holding shares in nominee or ISA accounts are also eligible, but must request the voucher through Shareholders who do not at present have their dividends their nominee or ISA account manager who should email paid directly into a bank or building society may wish to do alyson wenlock@next.
A mandate form is attached to your dividend warrant and tax voucher or is available to download from the NEXT website on www.
co. uk 24471.04 11 April 2016 2:32 PM Proof 2 Forward looking statements This Report and Accounts contains forward looking statements which are all matters that are not historical facts, including anticipated financial and operational performance, business prospects and similar matters.
These forward looking statements are identifiable by words such as aim, anticipate, believe, budget, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, plan, project and similar expressions.
These forward looking statements reflect NEXTs current expectations concerning future events and actual results may differ materially from current expectations or historical results.
Any such forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those risks described in Risks & Uncertainties on pages 27 to 30: failure by NEXT to predict accurately customer fashion preferences: decline in the demand for merchandise offered by NEXT: competitive influences: changes in level of store traffic or consumer spending habits: effectiveness of NEXTs brand awareness and marketing programmes: general economic conditions or a downturn in the retail industry: the inability of NEXT to successfully implement relocation or expansion of existing stores: insufficient consumer interest in NEXT Directory: acts of war or terrorism worldwide: work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes: and changes in financial or equity markets.
These forward looking statements do not amount to any representation that they will be achieved as they involve risks and uncertainties and relate to events and depend upon circumstances which may or may not occur in the future and there can be no guarantee of future performance.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward looking statements which speak only as of the date of this document.
NEXT does not undertake any obligation to update publicly or revise forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
This Annual Report is printed on Amadeus Revive 100% Recycled Silk.
The paper is made from 100% post consumer waste and is fully recyclable and biodegradable.
The mill of manufacture is certified to the ISO 9001 Quality Standard and the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard.
The paper used in this Report and Accounts is carbon neutral certified.
All associated emissions have been independently audited and offset to net zero.
