08 | Where we operate Strategic location of assets Our main operational Transportation facilities are located at ofourproducts the 274 square kilometre Crude Chinarevskoye field in Transported through our own liquids pipeline directly from the field site.
85% of production is sold to export markets and the remainder is sold We have three domestically.
additional licences all Condensate within a 120 kilometre Transported through our own oil radius of this location.
pipeline from the field site and then 100% is exported by rail to the This advantageous Russian Black Sea port of Taman.
location is central Imminent LPG toourbusiness case, Transported on trucks from the field growth allowing us to site to our rail terminal where it is loaded onto special trains and then leverageour existing With the preparatory work to transported to various off-takers.
double production capacity infrastructure and TheLPG is sold to various destinations approaching, all of the related across central Asia andeastern Europe.
experienced operating infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of production is and development Gas in place.
This will further improve Transported from the Chinarevskoye teams to drive growth.
our efficiencies and effective use field through the Companys own of existing infrastructure.
pipeline, which connects to the Intergas Central Asia pipeline.
Nostrum is continually evaluating All gas is sold at the connection the destinations to which we pointto Intergas Central Asia.
sellin order to achieve the bestpossible netbacks for the Company.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 09 With the preparatory work to double 100% production capacity approaching, of condensate and allof the related infrastructure to 85% ofcrude oil accommodate increased levels of isexported production is in place.
Key Border Nostrum oil loading rail terminal at Rostoshinskoye Gas pipeline Gas treatment facility GTF Nostrum oil pipeline Oil treatment facility OTF Finland Russia Nostrum gas pipeline Oil pipeline Kazakhstan Russia Chinarevskoye field Darjinskoye field  field North-west Kazakhstan Rostoshinskoye field Uralsk Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
