Additional Information Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 Glossary 192 2014 ESOS means the Ocado 2014 Executive Companies Act means the Companies Act 2006.
EBT as relating to the Income Statement, means Share Option Scheme.
As relating to share schemes, Company means Ocado Group plc, a company means employee benefit trust.
2016 Code means the UK Corporate Governance incorporated in England and Wales with registered Code published by the FRC in April 2016. number 07098618 whose registered office is at EBT Trustee means the trustee from time to Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hatfield Business time of the employee benefit trust established for Active Customers means customers who have Park, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9NE.
the purposes of the JSOS, currently Estera Trust shopped with Ocado in the previous 12 weeks.
Administrative Expenses means all IT com.
EPS means earning per share.
costs, advertising and marketing expenditure, employment costs of all head office functions, CR means Corporate Responsibility.
ESOS means the HMRC-approved Ocado 2001 which include legal, finance, human resources, Executive Share Option Scheme and the Ocado CSTM means Customer Service Team Member, marketing and procurement, rent and other 2001 Non-HMRC approved Executive Share Option the title given to our customer facing delivery property-related costs for the head office, all fees Scheme.
for professional services and the depreciation, A Exceptional Items means items that due to amortisation and impairment associated with Customer Fulfilment Centre or CFC means a their material and non-recurring nature have been head office IT equipment, software, fixtures and dedicated highly automated warehouse used for classified separately in order to draw them to the fittings and expenses relating to the Groups share the operation of the business.
The CFCs are: CFC1 attention of the reader of the financial statements.
in Hatfield, CFC2 in Dordon, CFC3 in Andover and CFC4 in Erith under construction.
Executive Directors means Tim Steiner, Admission means the admission of the ordinary Neill Abrams, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark shares of the Company to the premium listing Deloitte means Deloitte LLP.
segment of the Official List and to trading on the Directors means the Directors of the Company London Stock Exchanges main market for listed Fabled.
com means the Groups premium beauty whose names are set out on pages 48 and 49, or securities which occurred on 26 July 2010. online store in collaboration with Marie Claire and the Directors of the Companys subsidiaries from Time Inc. AGM means the Annual General Meeting of the time to time as the context may require.
Company, which will be held on 3 May 2017 at Fetch.
co. uk means the Groups dedicated Directors Remuneration Policy or 2017 Policy 11 am at Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet Street, online pet store.
means the 2017 Directors remuneration policy London, EC4A 2BB.
that the Company will propose to shareholders at Financial Period means the 52 week period, or American Depositary Receipts means the AGM and which is set out on pages 80 to 96.
53 week period where relevant, ending the closest securities that have been created to permit US Sunday to 30 November.
2014 Directors Remuneration Policy or 2014 investors to hold shares in non-US companies Policy means the Directors remuneration policy Financial Year or FY see Financial Period.
and, in a Level 1 programme, to trade them on the which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 over-the-counter market in the United States.
FRC means the Financial Reporting Council.
Annual General Meeting and is set out on pages Annual Incentive Plan or AIP means the 87 to 97 of the 2015 annual report and accounts GAAP means generally accepted accounting Executive Director incentive plan for the Group and on the Companys corporate website at www.
applicable to a particular financial year.
GHG means greenhouse gas es.
Articles means the articles of association of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules GIP means the Growth Incentive Plan.
means the disclosure guidance and transparency rules made under Part VI of the Financial Services GMDC means the General Merchandise Beauty MIP means the management incentive and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Distribution Centre in Welwyn Garden City, a plan for key management of Marie Claire Beauty dedicated highly automated warehouse used for Limited.
Distribution Costs means all the costs incurred, the operation of the business.
excluding product costs, to the point of sale, Board means the Board of Directors of the A usually the customers home.
This includes the Gross Sales Group means sales net of Company or its subsidiaries from time to time as payroll-related expenses for the picking, dispatch returns, including charges for delivery, before the context may require.
and delivery of product sold to the point of sale, deducting relevant vouchers, offers and value Brexit means the UKs decision to leave the the cost of making those deliveries, including fuel, added tax.
Gross sales also includes income European Union following the referendum on tolls, maintenance of vehicles, the operating costs received pursuant to the Morrisons agreement.
23 June 2016. of the properties required for the picking, dispatch Relevant vouchers and offers include money-off and onward delivery operations and all associated coupons, conditional spend vouchers and multiChairmans Share Matching Award means a depreciation, amortisation and impairment buy offers, such as buy three for the price of two.
one-off award of shares to Lord Rose, made in charges, call centre costs and payment processing May 2013.
A Gross Sales Retail means sales of the charges.
Groups retail operation being Ocado.
Cash LTIP means the Companys cash-based DPV means deliveries per van per week.
Long Term Incentive Plan for senior employees.
A EBITDA means the non-GAAP measure which Group means Ocado Group plc, its subsidiaries, Code means the UK Corporate Governance Ocado has defined as earnings before net finance significant undertakings and affiliated companies Code published by the FRC in September 2014. costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation, under its control or common control.
com Additional Information 193 Shareholder means a holder for the time being HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
Morrisons means Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC, a company incorporated in England and of ordinary shares in the Company.
IAS means International Accounting Standard s. Wales with registered number 353949, whose Sharesave Scheme or SAYE Scheme means registered office is at Hilmore House, Gain Lane, IFRIC means International Financial Reporting the Ocado employee savings-related share option Bradford, West Yorkshire, BD3 7DL.
com means Morrisons online retail invitations made under the scheme in 2010, SAYE2 IFRS means International Financial Reporting business.
means the second invitations made under the Standard s. scheme in 2012, SAYE3 means the third invitations Net Finance Costs means finance income IGD means the Institute of Grocery Distribution.
made under the scheme in 2013, SAYE4 means the less finance costs.
Finance income is composed fourth invitations made under the scheme in 2015 IP means Intellectual Property.
principally of bank interest and other interest.
and SAYE5 means the fifth invitations made under Finance cost is composed of interest on bank ISA UK & Ireland means International the scheme in 2016. loans and overdrafts, interest on finance leases Standard on Auditing in the UK and Ireland.
and interest on other financing arrangements.
SIP means the Share Incentive Plan.
John Lewis means John Lewis plc, the parent Non-Executive Directors means the nonSizzle.
co. uk means the Groups dedicated company of Waitrose, incorporated in England online kitchen and dining store.
executive Directors of the Company designated as and Wales with registered number 233462 whose such on pages 48 and 49. registered office is at 171 Victoria Street, London, SKU means a stock keeping unit, that is each SW1E 5NN.
Notice of Meeting means the notice of the line of stock.
JSOS means the Groups Joint Share Ownership Smart Pass previously Saving Pass means Scheme.
It comprises three issues called JSOS1, Ocado.
com means the Groups online retail the Ocado pre-pay membership scheme which JSOS2 and JSOS3.
includes the delivery pricing scheme previously known as Delivery Pass and the discount KPI means key performance indicators.
Ocado Council means the Ocado forum used to membership scheme formerly known as Saving consult with our employees.
Ocado Smart Platform or OSP means the endLIBOR means the London Interbank Offered Sourcing Agreement means the various to-end solution for operating online in the grocery Rate.
sourcing and branding agreements between market, which has been developed by the Group.
Ocado, Waitrose and John Lewis.
Listing Rules means the Listing Rules made OPW means orders per week.
by the UK Listing Authority under Part VI of the Spoke means the trans-shipment sites used for Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as the intermediate handling of customers orders.
Other Income means primarily revenue for amended.
advertising services provided by Ocado to Substitution means an alternative product suppliers and other third parties on the Webshop, LPP means Low Price Promise, the Ocado provided in place of the original product ordered commission income and sublease payments.
vouchering scheme which entitles customers to by a customer.
Other income is recognised in the period to which receive discount vouchers where their shopping it relates on an accruals basis.
TSR means total shareholder return the basket has cost more than it would have at growth in value of a shareholding over a specified selected competitors.
Participants means eligible staff who period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to participate in one of the Companys staff share LTIP means the Companys Long Term Incentive purchase additional units of the stock.
Plan for Executive Directors and selected senior UPH means average units processed per labour managers.
Prospectus means the Companys prospectus hour.
dated 6 July 2010 prepared in connection with the Management Committee means senior Companys Admission.
USDAW means the Union of Shop, Distributive management responsible for managing the dayand Allied Workers.
to-day operations of the business.
PwC means  LLP, the Groups statutory auditors or the Groups advisers Waitrose means Waitrose Limited, a company MHE means mechanical handling equipment.
in respect of non-audit services.
incorporated in England and Wales with registered MHE JVCo means MHE JVCo Limited, a number 00099405, whose registered office is at R&D means Research and Development.
company incorporated in England and Wales with 171 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 5NN.
registered number 8576462, whose registered Revenue means online sales net of returns Webshop means the customer facing internetoffice is at Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hatfield through the Webshop and Ocado on the Go, based virtual shop accessible via the website Business Park, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9NE.
including charges for delivery, but excluding www.
MHE JVCo is jointly owned by a Group subsidiary relevant vouchers, offers and value added tax.
recharge of costs to Morrisons and fees charged to Morrisons are also included in Revenue.
Relevant vouchers and offers include money-off coupons, conditional spend vouchers and multi-buy offers, such as buy three for the price of two.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 24883.04 Proof 1 1 February 2017 11:09 AM
