Additional Information Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 Alternative Performance Measures 194 We assess the performance of the Group using a variety of alternative performance 2016 2015 measures which are not defined under IFRS and are therefore termed non-GAAP m m measures.
These measures provide additional useful information on the underlying Underlying distribution costs 247.5 216.6 trends, performance and position of the Group.
The non-GAAP measures we use are: Costs recharged to Morrisons 76.4 52.0 Gross Sales: Depreciation and amortisation 41.8 40.8 Gross Sales Retail : Reported distribution costs 365.7 309.4 Exceptional Items: 2016 2015 Underlying administrative costs and distribution costs: m m EBITDA: Underlying administrative costs 78.8 73.4 External gross debt: and Net debt.
Costs recharged to Morrisons 3.4 2.9 Depreciation and amortisation 18.4 19.3 A reconciliation from these non-GAAP measures to the nearest measure Reported administrative costs 100.6 95.6 prepared in accordance with IFRS is presented below.
The alternative performance measures we use may not be directly comparable with similarly EBITDA titled measures used by other companies.
In addition to measuring financial performance of the Group based on operating Gross Sales profit, we also measure performance based on EBITDA.
EBITDA is defined as the Gross Sales is a measure of reported revenue before excluding value added Group earnings before depreciation, amortisation, impairment, net finance expense, tax and relevant vouchers and offers.
Gross Sales is a common measure used taxation and Exceptional Items.
EBITDA is a common measure used by investors and by investors and analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of companies.
companies within the retail sector.
We consider EBITDA to be a useful measure of our operating performance A reconciliation from reported revenue to Gross Sales can be found in note because it approximates the underlying operating cash flow by eliminating 2.3 in the consolidated financial statements.
EBITDA is not direct measures of our liquidity, which is shown by our cash flow statement, and needs to be considered in Gross Sales Retail the context of our financial commitments.
Gross Sales Retail is a measure of reported revenue for the Groups retail A reconciliation from operating profit to EBITDA can be found on the face of operation, before excluding value added tax and relevant vouchers.
The the Consolidated Income Statement on page 125.
Groups retail operation comprises Ocado.
Management consider this an important measure of the External gross debt performance of the Groups retail business.
External gross debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and non-current, less finance leases payable to joint venture interests of the Exceptional items Group.
The Groups Consolidated Income Statement separately identifies trading results before exceptional Items.
The Directors believe that presentation of External gross debt is a measure of the Groups indebtedness to third parties the Groups results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the Groups which are not considered a related party to the Group.
This presentation is consistent with the way that A reconciliation from this to gross debt can be found below.
financial performance is measured by management and reported to the 2016 2015 Board and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of m m the Group.
This also facilitates comparison with prior periods to assess trends External gross debt 107.1 53.3 in financial performance more readily.
Finance leases relating to joint ventures 108.7 119.5 The Group applies judgement in identifying significant non-recurring items Gross debt 215.8 172.8 of income and expense that are recognised as exceptional to help provide an indication of the Groups underlying business.
In determining whether an event Net Debt or transaction is exceptional in nature, management considers quantitative as Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and non-current, well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
less cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and other borrowings are measured as the Examples of items that the Group considers exceptional include, but are net proceeds raised, adjusted to amortise any discount over the term of the debt.
not limited to, material costs relating to the opening of a new warehouse, Net debt is a measure of the Groups net indebtedness that provides an corporate reorganisations, material litigation, and any material costs, outside indicator of the overall balance sheet strength.
It is also a single measure that of the normal course of business as determined by management.
can be used to assess the combined impact of the Groups cash position and Exceptional items are disclosed in note 2.7 to the consolidated financial its indebtedness.
The use of the term net debt does not necessarily mean statements.
that the cash included in the net debt calculation is available to settle the liabilities included in this measure.
Underlying distribution and administrative costs Net debt is considered to be an alternative performance measure as it is not Underlying distribution and administrative costs are measures which seek to defined in IFRS.
The most directly comparable IFRS measure is the aggregate reflect the underlying performance of the Group that will contribute to long-term of loans and other borrowings current and non-current and cash and cash sustainable growth.
As such, they exclude the impact of depreciation, amortisation, equivalents.
A reconciliation from these measures to net debt can be found in impairment and costs relating to the provision of services to Morrisons.
Note 4.4 in the consolidated financial statements.
A reconciliation from reported distribution and administrative costs, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to the decrease in underlying administrative and distribution costs, is set out below.
