Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 98 CORPOR A TE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Why is the Company paying What dividends were a second interim dividend waived during 2016?
During 2016, trustees of the Companys, instead of a final dividend?
Quilter Cheviots and the Companys South As with 2015, the final dividend for 2016 African subsidiary employee benefit trusts has been declared as a second interim waived dividends on certain shares in the dividend, which does not require Company held by them relating to awards shareholder approval at the AGM.
where the scheme participants were not Consequently, the second interim dividend entitled to receive dividends pending is revocable by the Board until paid.
The total number of shares means that the Company is able to pay concerned was 13,292,1 16 for the second the dividend at the end of April.
This also interim dividend for 2015 and 25,893,799 means that, under Solvency II rules, the for the first interim dividend for 2016.
Companys ordinary shares continue to qualify as eligible regulatory capital.
Audit arrangements What other factors are Who is the Companys relevant in determining external auditor and dividend payments?
In addition to giving specific consideration KPMG LLP or, before 2014, its related We have to the Companys dividend policy, all associated entity KPMG Audit Plc has been dividend declarations are assessed by the adapted our the Companys external auditor since 1999.
Board in the context of their impact on the We have made arrangements with KPMG plans and viability of the Company, as described LLP for appropriate audit director rotation elsewhere in this report.
strategy to in line with the requirements of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
The current audit reflect that Dividend declarations must also take account engagement partner in the UK, Jonathan of the distributable reserves of the holding the objective Holt, assumed this role in June 2016. company, Old Mutual plc, which were during managed 2,059 million at 31 December 2016.
The Group Audit Committee report above separation is In assessing the distributable reserves describes how that committee satisfies itself of the Company, management also to highlight about the external auditors performance considers its ability to access subsidiary and its recommendation to reappoint the underlying distributable reserves.
KPMG LLP which has expressed its operations of the willingness to continue in office as auditor The Group capital management policy for 2017 at this years AGM.
The Company four businesses also takes account of provisions in the has not entered into any contractual OMLAC SA demutualisation agreement restriction preventing it from considering which restrict the application of South a change of auditor.
African dividend remittances to the payment of Company dividends.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, fees paid by the Group to KPMG LLP and its associates totalled 15.1 million for audit services 2015: 13.8 million and 3.7 million for tax compliance, audit-related assurance, corporate finance transactions and other non-audit services 2015: 3.5 million.
In addition to the above, Nedbank paid a further 3.3 million 2015: 3.1 million to Deloitte in respect of joint audit arrangements.
