Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 100 CORPOR A TE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Internal Audit teams across the four businesses use a single audit methodology which meets the international standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Issues raised by Internal Audit in the course of its work are discussed with management, who are responsible for implementing agreed actions to address the issues identified within an appropriate and agreed timeframe.
A quality assurance process is now in place for internal audit The GIAD submits formal reports to each meeting of the Group Audit Committee, summarising the results of Internal Audit activity, managements progress in addressing issues and other significant matters.
As reported last year, a quality assurance process is now in place for internal audit, and an update on this is included in the report from the chairman of the Group Audit Committee.
The Board confirms that, in accordance GIAs work is focused on the areas of Can you confirm that with the processes described above and in greatest risk, both current and emerging, the Risks section of this Annual Report, it to the Group as determined by a the Company is a has, in conjunction with the Board Risk comprehensive risk-based planning going concern?
Committee, carried out a robust assessment process.
The Group Audit Committee The Groups financial position, its cash of the principal risks facing the Company, approves the annual Internal Audit plan flows, liquidity position and borrowing including those that would threaten its and any subsequent material amendments facilities are described in the Financial business model, future performance, to it and also satisfies itself that GIA has review and the Risks section of this Annual solvency or liquidity.
The relevant risks and adequate resources to discharge its Report.
In addition, Notes F1 to F5 to the the manner in which they are being function.
The Board is able to confirm financial statements includes the Groups managed or mitigated are explained in that this was the case for 2016. objectives, policies and processes for more detail in the Risks section of this managing its capital solvency risk and There are Internal Audit teams in each Annual Report.
liquidity risks, and sets out details of the of our major businesses.
The heads of principal risks related to financial Internal Audit in the Groups wholly-owned What is the role of instrument market risk, credit risk and subsidiaries report directly to the Group Group Internal Audit?
insurance risk as well as their sensitivities.
Heads of The purpose of Group Internal Audit audit in majority-owned subsidiaries have GIA is to help the Board and executive a dual reporting line to the GIAD.
management to protect the assets, reputation and sustainability of the During 2016, the GIAD reported Group.
GIA does this by assessing whether functionally to the Chairman of the Group all significant risks are identified and Audit Committee and administratively to the appropriately reported by management Group Chief Executive.
The GIAD attends and the Risk function to the Board and all meetings of the Group Audit Committee, executive management: assessing whether and has unrestricted access to the Group they are adequately controlled: and Chief Executive and the Chairman of the challenging executive management to Board, as well as open invitations to attend improve the effectiveness of governance, any meetings of the subsidiary audit risk management and internal controls.
committees, the Board Risk Committee and the plc Exco.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 101 The preceding sections of the Annual the Board has assessed projections Report referred to above also explain the covering the period from 2017 to 2019, as basis on which the Group generates and set out in the Groups rolling three-year preserves value over the longer term and business plan, which was formally the strategy for delivering its objectives.
The Groups capital and cash flow under These projections include analysis of the the Solvency II Directive are stress tested Groups and businesses current and and are within the limits described in the prospective financial performance Risks section in order to identify those risks and cash flows on which forecasts of its that would threaten the Groups solvency regulatory capital, liquidity and financial and liquidity.
As a consequence, the positions have been based.
The exact directors believe that the Group is in a composition of the groups of companies strong financial position and is well placed which will constitute the standalone to manage its business risks successfully.
OMEM and OMW businesses has not been Based on its enquiries, the Board has a definitively concluded, but this composition reasonable expectation that the Company is not expected to have any material impact and the Group have adequate resources on the viability of those businesses.
to continue in operational existence for The Board considers a three-year outlook the next 12 months.
Accordingly, it continues when considering the longer-term viability to adopt the going concern basis in of the businesses of the Group.
This is the preparing the financial statements.
period for which the Group prepares The Boards assessment of going concern its detailed business plan which sets is underpinned by the enquiries and out the businesses prospective operating assessments it has made in the course performance and financial position, of its assessment of the Groups viability, including its capital position.
which is set out in further detail below.
Some Group businesses write business that The Group is very long term in nature, especially in the Is the Board satisfied that area of life assurance and pensions.
This is in a strong the Groups businesses are is accounted for appropriately, applying financial viable in the longer term?
In The Board routinely assesses the position and adopting a three-year time horizon for this reasonableness of the expectation that the viability statement which is a requirement is well placed Company and Group will have adequate under the UK Corporate Governance Code resources to continue in operational to manage its 2014, no inference should be drawn about existence for the foreseeable future.
In view business risks a lack of viability of the Group in relation of the managed separation, and the fact to such longer-term commitments.
successfully that the Companys strategy is to divide the Group into its four businesses, the Board In assessing the viability of the Group and has had to make an assessment that both the businesses, consideration has been the Company itself and each of the four given to the applicable regulatory capital businesses will be able to continue in requirements.
This has included an operational existence on that basis.
assessment of the Companys Solvency II position over the period of the managed In addition to enabling the Board to separation.
This has been addressed conclude that the Company is a going by overlaying the financial impacts of a concern, this assessment has enabled the number of managed separation scenarios Board to confirm that the Company and on to the base case business plan.
In wider Group will remain viable, such that considering the possible steps required they are able to settle their liabilities as they to undertake the process of managed fall due in the longer term, meaning for this separation, the Board has routinely taken purpose the period up to the end of 2019. into consideration the adequacy of the Although, as a result of the managed Groups capital and resources in the separation, it is intended that the Group relevant geographies and in light of the will not exist in its current form by 2019, an appropriate local regulatory obligations analysis of the companies expected to be to enable it to achieve the desired comprised in each of the current Groups strategic outcome.
four businesses indicates that, on a standalone basis, each business will be viable.
In addition, although it is expected that the Company will cease to be the listed parent company of the Group, the Company itself will retain sufficient resources to meet its obligations in its reduced state.
