Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 158 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2016 A: Significant accounting policies A1: Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company or plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales and is the ultimate Parent Company of the Group companies.
plc Head Office collectively refers to the plc Parent Company and the other centre companies of the Group, which typically own and manage the Groups interests across the Group.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures other than those held by life assurance funds which are accounted for as investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies adopted by the Company and Group, unless otherwise stated, have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss or as available-for-sale, owner-occupied property and investment property, cash-settled share-based payments, pension scheme assets and insurance and investment contract liabilities.
Assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of the carrying amount prior to disposal and the fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments in accordance with IAS 27.
The Company and Group financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the Directors believe to be appropriate having taken into consideration the points as set out in the Directors Report in the section headed Going Concern.
The Group has prepared the financial statements in accordance with its detailed accounting policies which can be found at www.
The significant accounting policies are contained in the financial statements and are included in the specific notes to which they relate.
The significant accounting policies on financial assets and liabilities are included in note L. Judgements made by the Directors in the applications of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, are discussed in note A3.
Accounting policy elections The following significant accounting policy elections have been made by the Group: Property and equipment Land and buildings are stated at revalued amounts.
Revaluation surpluses are recognised through other comprehensive income.
Investment in venture capital divisions and In venture capital divisions and insurance funds, the Group has elected to carry associate and joint-venture entities at fair value through profit or loss.
insurance funds Financial instruments The Group has elected to designate certain fixed-rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss to reduce the accounting mismatch.
Regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised using trade date accounting.
Investment properties The Group has elected to recognise all investment properties at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised in profit and loss for the year.
Investments in subsidiaries, associate The Group has elected to recognise these investments at cost in the Company financial statements.
companies and joint arrangements Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 159 Translation of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated from their respective functional currencies into the Groups presentation currency using the year-end exchange rates, and their income and expenses using the average exchange rates for the year.
Other than in respect of cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, cumulative unrealised gains or losses resulting from translation of functional currencies to the presentation currency are included as a separate component of shareholders equity.
To the extent that these gains and losses are effectively hedged, the cumulative effect of such gains and losses arising on the hedging instruments are also included in that component of shareholders equity.
Upon the disposal of subsidiaries the cumulative amount of exchange differences deferred in shareholders equity, net of attributable amounts in relation to net investments, is recognised in profit or loss.
Cumulative translation gains and losses up to 1 January 2004, being the effective date of the Groups conversion to IFRS, were reset to zero.
The exchange rates used to translate the operating results, assets and liabilities of key foreign business segments to pounds sterling are: Y ear ended Y ear ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Statement Statement Income of financial Income of financial statement position statement position average rate closing rate average rate closing rate Rand 19.9305 16.9551 19.5223 22.8183 US dollars 1.3558 1.2345 1.5285 1.4734 Euro 1.2251 1.1705 1.3765 1.3560 A2: Significant corporate activity and business changes during the year Acquisitions completed during the year The Group completed the following significant acquisitions during the year: Acquisition of a further stake in Banco Unico, SA On 3 October 2016 the Group acquired a 10.9% share in Banco Unico, SA to reach a controlling 50% plus one share 2015: 38.3% share.
The acquiree is a banking entity in Mozambique and the acquisition, in line with the Groups strategy of expanding into the rest of Africa, was made by purchasing Banco Unico, SA shares from a third party.
The accounting related to the step up in ownership from 38.3% to 50% plus one share is such that it effectively requires a simultaneous sale of 38.3% followed by an acquisition of the fair value of 50% plus one share of the business.
Consequently a loss of 1 1 million, comprising a loss on step up acquisition and a release of foreign currency translation reserves, was realised on the transaction.
Consistent with usual practice, this loss was recognised in the IFRS income statement but excluded from the determination of AOP.
The financial results and position of Banco Unico, SA have been consolidated with effect from 3 October 2016.
The purchase price allocation has been completed and goodwill of 1 million and other intangible assets of 8 million have been recognised on this transaction.
Acquisition of Landmark Partners Landmark On 18 August 2016, OM Asset Management plc OMAM completed the acquisition of a 60% equity interest in Landmark, a leading global secondary private equity, real estate and real asset investment firm for $242 million 185 million in cash with the potential for an additional payment of up to $225 million 182 million on or around 31 December 2018.
As the potential additional payment is dependent on future service and other conditions, no amounts have been attributed to the consideration of the business.
Certain key members of the management team of Landmark have retained the remaining 40% interest in the business as ownership units.
Both the potential additional payment and the 40% ownership units held by management are recognised as share-based payment transactions due to service conditions and settlement features.
These arrangements vest over varying increments from 31 December 2018 through 31 December 2024.
Goodwill of 1 1 1 million and other intangible assets of 63 million were recognised as a result of the transaction.
Refer to note K2 for more information.
Acquisition of AAM Advisory AAM On 16 March 2016, Old Mutual Wealth completed the acquisition of 100% of AAM, a Singapore based wealth advice company.
The consideration payable was an initial SGD 14 million 7 million with additional potential deferred consideration of SGD 26 million 13 million, which is subject to AAM meeting certain performance targets for the period from 2016 to 2018.
Goodwill of 4 million and other intangible assets of 3 million were recognised as a result of the transaction.
Old Mutual Private Client Advisors PCA During the second half of 2016, Old Mutual Wealth OMW completed the acquisition of a number of PCA businesses.
The total consideration payable was an initial 8 million with additional potential deferred consideration of 8 million, dependent upon meeting certain performance targets, generally relating to funds under management.
Goodwill of 8 million and other intangible assets of 7 million were recognised as a result of the transactions.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 160 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2016 A: Significant accounting policies continued A2: Significant corporate activity and business changes during the year continued Acquisitions completed during the year continued Purchase of remaining stake in Credit Guarantee Insurance Company CGIC On 1 March 2016 Emerging Markets acquired the remaining 13.9% of the shares in CGIC for R190 million 10 million resulting in CGIC becoming a wholly owned subsidiary.
This transaction has resulted in a debit being recognised directly in reserves of R78 million 4 million, which is the excess of the consideration paid and the proportionate share of the net assets of CGIC acquired.
During the third quarter of 2016, Emerging Markets accepted an offer from Atradius N. V. to dispose of 25% of CGIC for R494 million 28 million.
The transaction is subject to due diligence and regulatory approval and is expected to be finalised during 2017.
The Group expects to recognise a gain on disposal of approximately R289 million 15 million directly in equity on completion of the sale of this minority stake.
Other activities during the year The following two transactions are between Group entities and therefore it has no net impact on the Group financial statements: Purchase of seed capital investments from Old Mutual plc On 15 September 2016, OM Asset Management plc OMAM purchased approximately $40 million 32 million of seed investments from Old Mutual plc under the terms of the Seed Capital Management Agreement, as amended.
OMAM intends to purchase all remaining seed capital investments covered by the Seed Capital Management Agreement around 30 June 2017.
Amendment of the OMAM Deferred Tax Asset Deed DTA On 13 June 2016, OMAM and OM Group UK Limited OMGUK entered into a Heads of Agreement amending the DTA to provide that the obligations of OMAM to make future payments to OMGUK under the DTA, which were originally scheduled to continue until 31 January 2020, would be amended as of 31 December 2016 resulting in a payment of the net present value of the future payments due to OMGUK valued as of 31 December 2016.
This payment equals approximately $143 million 1 15 million and will be made over three instalments on each of 30 June 2017, 31 December 2017 and 30 June 2018.
The agreement contains certain provisions allowing OMAM to claw back amounts paid in the event that deferred tax assets recognised by OMAM are not recovered by the OMAM business.
These claw back arrangements create a potential commitment from OMGUK to OMAM which extends beyond the period of managed separation.
Disposals completed during the year OM Asset Management plc share buyback and secondary public offering On 19 December 2016, the Group announced the closing of the secondary public offering of 14.95 million of OM Asset Management plc OMAM at a price to the public of $14.25 per share.
Additionally, on 19 December 2016, OMAM repurchased 6 million ordinary shares directly from OM Group UK Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Old Mutual plc, at a price of $14.25 per share.
The Group realised $291 million 235 million gross proceeds, less the underwriting discount from these transactions.
A profit of 13 million was recognised directly in equity, reflecting the excess of the consideration over the share of net assets disposed.
Foreign currency translation reserves of 25 million were recognised directly in equity and additional non-controlling interest of 153 million was recognised in the statement of financial position.
Following the sale, the Group now owns 51.7% of OMAM.
OMAM did not sell any shares in the offering and did not receive any proceeds from the offering.
Disposal of Rogge Global Partners Limited On 31 May 2016, the Group completed the sale of its interest in Rogge Global Partners Limited Rogge, a fixed income asset manager, to Allianz Global Investors GmbH.
The sales proceeds received are subject to adjustment as amounts could either be clawed back or future amounts become payable based on Rogges future performance.
Final adjustments to the sales proceeds are expected to be resolved during Q4 2017.
A profit on disposal of 10 million has been recognised, which reflects the Directors current assessment of the likely final amount recoverable.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 161 Disposals announced but not completed during the year Disposal of Old Mutual Wealth Italy On 9 January 2017, the Group completed the disposal of Old Mutual Wealth Italy, part of the Old Mutual Wealth business for a cash consideration of 278 million 210 million net of costs plus interest to completion.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, a goodwill impairment loss of 46 million has been recognised in profit or loss as the net asset value of the business disposed of exceeds the expected net proceeds.
The related assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2016.
Refer to note K2 for further information.
Financing activities completed during the year Nedbank On 20 May 2016, Nedbank Limited issued a R1,500 million new-style Basel III-compliant additional Tier 1 capital instrument at 3-month JIBAR 7.
On 25 November 2016, Nedbank Limited issued a R500 million new-style Basel III-compliant additional Tier 1 capital instrument at 3-month JIBAR 6.3% with a call date of 26 November 2021.
These additional Tier 1 capital instruments represent perpetual, subordinated instruments, with no redemption date.
The instruments are redeemable subject to regulatory approval at the sole discretion of the issuer, Nedbank Limited from the applicable call date and following a regulatory event or following a tax event.
The payment of interest is at the discretion of the issuer and interest payments are non-cumulative.
In addition, if certain conditions are reached the regulator may prohibit Nedbank from making interest payments.
Accordingly the instruments are classified as equity instruments and disclosed as non-controlling interest.
Nedbank further issued and redeemed debt instruments in the normal course of its funding program.
Refer to note G7 for further information.
Financing activities announced but not yet completed Old Mutual plc On 3 February 2017 the Group repurchased all of the 273 million Tier 1 preferred perpetual callable securities and paid cash from the Groups existing resources.
A 29 million loss, including accrued interest and the costs of acquiring the instruments, will be recognised directly in equity in the 2017 financial statements.
Restatement of prior year comparative amounts Overview In preparing the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, the 2015 financial statements have required adjustments for: The classification of the Institutional Asset Management IAM operating segment as a discontinued operation, and The identification of additional investment funds managed by Emerging Markets as being controlled by the Group.
These adjustments, in aggregate and individually, result in presentational changes to the financial statements, and neither of these adjustments affects the reported IFRS or AOP results or equity attributable to equity holders of the parent.
IAM classified as a discontinued operation in 2016 IAM discontinued operation For the year ended 31 December 2016, IAM has been classified as discontinued operation in the IFRS consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of cash flows, with comparative figures being restated.
The assets and liabilities of IAM are classified as held for sale in the consolidated statement of financial position in the current year.
This treatment is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, given the Groups stated strategic intentions and has been presented in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Refer to note K1 for further information.
Consolidation of additional Emerging Markets investment funds Consol Investment Funds During 2016, the Group has re-evaluated the criteria applied in determining whether investment funds should be consolidated under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements in the Group financial statements.
This has resulted in the identification of additional investment funds that are required to be included in the consolidated financial statements.
As a result, comparative information has been restated accordingly.
The Group has not been able to determine the impact on the consolidated statement of financial position as at 1 January 2015 because the business has subsequently implemented an Investment Repository which has enabled the Group as at 31 December 2015 to identify more widely the investment funds that IFRS 10 regards as controlled.
The prior year adjustment did not impact the net assets of the Group, the equity attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent or any key performance indicators reported by the Group.
If the Group were able to determine the impact on the consolidated statement of financial position at 1 January 2015, the material line items that would have been impacted are investments and securities, cash and cash equivalents and third-party interest in consolidated funds.
The impact on the income statement for 2015 has been obtained from the financial information available for the investment funds consolidated as at 31 December 2015.
The income statement effect of any additional investment funds that have not been identified as at 1 January 2015 is likely to be immaterial.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 162 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2016 A: Significant accounting policies continued A2: Significant corporate activity and business changes during the year continued Restatement of prior year comparative amounts continued Summary impact The following table summarises the restatement impact, for both the classification of IAM as a discontinued operation and the identification of additional entities to be consolidated on the Groups financial statements: m Restatement IAM Consol 2015 As Discontinued Investment 2015 As Reported Operations Funds Restated Statement of financial position Assets Investments and securities 82,601 1,418 84,019 Trade, other receivables and other assets 2,007 60 1,947 Cash and cash equivalents 4,520 109 4,411 Total assets 133,548 1,249 134,797 Liabilities Third-party interests in consolidated funds 4,661 1,287 5,948 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 3,787 38 3,749 Total liabilities 124,614 1,249 125,863 Income statement Revenue Investment Return non-banking 3,795 2 8 3,805 Fee and commission income, and income from service activities 3,027 491 2,536 Other income 86 8 1 79 Total revenue 13,695 497 9 13,207 Expenses Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 786 6 15 765 Change in third-party interest in consolidated funds 208 18 226 Finance cost 49 2 47 Other operating and administrative expenses 3,759 380 6 3,385 Total expenses 12,407 388 9 12,028 Share of associated undertakings and joint ventures profit after tax 67 8 59 Loss and disposal of subsidiaries associated undertakings and strategic investments 36 1 37 Profit before tax 1,319 118 1,201 Income tax expense 374 27 347 Profit from continuing operations after tax 945 91 854 Loss profit from discontinued operations after tax 21 91 70 Statement of cash flows Net cash inflow from operating activities continuing operations 5,690 48 22 5,664 Net cash outflow from investing activities continuing operations 5,757 3 131 5,891 Net cash inflow from financing activities continuing operations 283 64 347 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents discontinued operations 13 13 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 163 A3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the preparation of these financial statements, the Group is required to make estimates and judgements that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, statement of financial position, other primary statements and related supporting notes.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgements or assessments.
Where applicable the Group applies estimation and assumption setting techniques that are aligned with relevant actuarial and accounting guidance based on knowledge of the current situation.
This requires assumptions and predictions of future events and actions.
There have been no significant methodology changes to the critical accounting estimates and judgements that the Group applied at 31 December 2015.
The significant accounting policies are described in the relevant notes.
The key areas of the Groups business that typically require such estimates and the relevant accounting policies and notes are as follows: Area Policy note More detail Valuation of financial assets and liabilities L1 E1 E2 E3 Loans and advances G1 G1 Life assurance contract provisions G6 G6 Intangible assets and goodwill H1 H1 Investments in subsidiaries and associated undertakings I1 I2 I3 Tax D1 D1 H7 A4: Liquidity analysis of the statement of financial position The Groups statement of financial position is in order of liquidity as is permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
In order to satisfy the requirements of IAS 1, the following analysis is given to describe how the statement of financial position lines are categorised between current and non-current balances, applying the principles laid out in IAS 1.
The following statement of financial position captions are generally classified as current cash and cash equivalents, non-current assets held for sale, current tax receivable, third-party interests in the consolidation of funds, current tax payable, liabilities under acceptances and non-current liabilities held for sale.
The following balances are generally classified as non-current goodwill and other intangible assets, mandatory reserve deposits with central banks, property, plant and equipment, investment property, deferred tax assets, investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures, deferred acquisition costs, deposits held with reinsurers, provisions, deferred revenue and deferred tax liabilities.
The following balances include both current and non-current portions reinsurers shares of life assurance and property & casualty business policyholder liabilities, loans and advances, investments and securities, other assets, derivative financial assets and liabilities, life assurance and property & casualty policyholder liabilities, borrowed funds, amounts owed to bank depositors and other liabilities.
The split between the current and non-current portions for these assets and liabilities is given either by way of a footnote to the relevant note to the accounts or by way of a maturity analysis in respect of major financial liability captions.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 164 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2016 A: Significant accounting policies continued A5: Standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted in the 2016 annual financial statements During the year, there were no new standards implemented that had a material effect on the financial statements of the Group.
A6: Future standards, amendments to standards and interpretations not early-adopted in the 2016 annual financial statements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 and will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard is effective for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
The final version of this standard incorporates amendments to the classification and measurement, hedge accounting guidance, as well as the accounting requirements for the impairment of financial assets measured at amortised cost and fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
These elements of the final standard, and a description of the expected impact on the Groups statement of financial position and performance, are discussed in detail below: Classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are to be classified based on i the business model within which the financial assets are managed and ii the contractual cashflow characteristics of the financial assets whether the cashflows represent solely payment of principal and interest.
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost if they are held within a business model whose objective is to hold those assets for the purpose of collecting contractual cashflows and those cashflows comprise solely payments of principal and interest hold to collect.
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, if they are held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cashflows and selling financial assets, and those contractual cashflows comprise solely payments of principal and interest hold to collect and sell.
Movements in the carrying amount of these financial assets should be taken through other comprehensive income OCI, except for impairment gains or losses, interest revenue and foreign exchange gains or losses, which are recognised in profit or loss.
Where the financial asset, which is a debt instrument, is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss.
Other financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The accounting for financial liabilities is largely unchanged, except for financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Changes in the fair value of these financial liabilities which are attributable to the Groups own credit risk, are recognised in OCI.
Where the financial liability is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is not reclassified from equity to profit or loss.
However, it may be reclassified within equity.
The Group currently designates certain fixed-rate assets and liabilities, which are economically hedged through interest rate swaps, at FVTPL.
This option remains available under IFRS 9.
During the year, the Group conducted an assessment of potential classification and measurement changes to financial assets based on the composition of the balance sheet as at 31 December 2015.
This may not be fully representative of the impact as at 1 January 2018 as IFRS 9 requires that business models be assessed based on facts and circumstances from the date of initial application.
However, based on the assessment of financial assets as at 31 December 2015, the Group does not expect the impact of the changes to classification and measurement of financial assets, to be significant to the Groups statement of financial position and performance.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 165 K ey matters arising from the assessment relate to monitoring the Groups preliminary business model conclusions and development of the new required disclosures.
Impairment of financial assets Impairments in terms of IFRS 9 will be determined based on an expected credit loss ECL model rather than the current incurred loss model required by IAS 39.
The Group will be required to recognise an allowance for either 12-month or lifetime ECLs, depending on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition.
The measurement of ECLs reflects a probability-weighted outcome, the time value of money and the entitys best available forward-looking information.
The aforementioned probability-weighted outcome must consider the possibility that a credit loss occurs and the possibility that no credit loss occurs, even if the possibility of a credit loss occurring is low.
The ECL model applies to financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI, lease receivables and certain loan commitments as well as financial guarantee contracts.
The business units individually initiated an IFRS 9 Implementation Programme, which have included a number of work-streams with the following objectives: i develop a technical definitions framework: ii develop, build and test the new credit models, iii draft new accounting policies and iv draft the disclosure and reporting framework.
Hedge accounting The hedge accounting requirements under IFRS 9 are closely aligned with how entities undertake risk management activities when hedging financial and non-financial risk exposures.
IFRS 9 allows the deferral of the requirements relating to hedge accounting, permitting continuation with IAS 39 principles until the IASBs macro-hedging project is completed, so at to ensure that reporting entities do not have to comply with interim measures before macro-hedging rules are finalised.
Until such time as this project is complete, entities can choose between applying the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 or to continue to apply the existing hedge accounting requirements in IAS 39.
The Group has decided to exercise the accounting policy choice to continue IAS 39 hedge accounting and therefore, the Group does not expect to have any significant impact on its macro-hedge accounting.
Interaction with IFRS 4 Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts was issued in September 2016.
The amendments address the temporary consequences of the different effective dates of IFRS 9 and IFRS 17, the forthcoming insurance contracts standard, by providing an option that is available to entities whose predominant activity is to issue insurance contracts, to temporarily defer the adoption of IFRS 9 until the earlier of 1 January 2021, and the effective date of IFRS 17.
The amendments also provide an option, for designated financial assets, to reclassify between profit or loss and other comprehensive income OCI, the difference between the amounts recognised in profit or loss under IFRS 9 and those that would have been reported under IAS 39, to alleviate temporary accounting matches that might arise.
These amendments have not yet been endorsed by the European Commission for use in the EU.
The Group currently does not anticipate adopting the deferral or overlay options when implementing IFRS 9.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 replaces all existing revenue requirements in IFRS and applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers, unless the contracts are in the scope of the standards on leases, insurance contracts and financial instruments.
The core principle of the standard is that revenue recognised reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for the transfer of promised goods or services to the customer.
The standard incorporates a five-step analysis to determine the amount and timing of revenue recognition.
The standard is effective for the Group for the financial year commencing 1 January 2018.
The Group plans to adopt the fully retrospective approach, with the use of certain practical expedients, to the adoption of IFRS 15.
During the year, the Group performed a high level assessment to determine the potential impact of the new standard on the Groups statement of financial position and performance.
Based on this assessment, nothing has come to the attention of the Group that would indicate that the impact of the new standard would be significant.
Key matters arising from the assessment relate to the determination of when performance obligations are satisfied.
IFRS 16 Leases The IASB issued IFRS 16 in January 2016.
IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and its related interpretations for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group as lessee: IFRS 16 introduces a right-of-use model whereby the lessee recognises a right of use asset and an associated financial obligation to make lease payments for all leases with a term of more than 12 months.
The asset will be amortised over the lease term and the financial liability measured at amortised cost with interest recognised in profit and loss using the effective interest rate method.
The Group as lessor: IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify and account for its leases as operating leases or finance leases.
The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 16.
