Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 42 Business Institutional Asset review Management real demand in the institutional investment In addition, we have taken a strategic How we operate marketplace.
They have excellent long-term approach to distribution opportunities investment performance records in many on behalf of our Affiliates.
Our global strategies and are recognised for superior distribution platform extends our franchise Our aligned partnership model is client service.
globally through a team of dedicated, grounded in our Affiliates permanent investment-centric sales and marketing equity ownership in their respective We seek to enhance Affiliate growth professionals.
This team works with businesses, combined with a profit-sharing through collaborative organic growth Affiliates in a transparent, non-competitive, relationship with OMAM.
These elements initiatives which engage Affiliates in non-redundant manner to complement provide us and our Affiliates with strong generating new product development existing Affiliate distribution capabilities by incentives to work together to enhance ideas, strategic extensions and focusing on areas where scale is a distinct the growth and stability of their firms.
These initiatives advantage, such as international markets OMAM protects Affiliates operating enable Affiliates to generate growth they and the domestic sub-advisory space.
autonomy and serves as a long-term would otherwise be unable to achieve.
Since its inception in 2012, the global partner in the further development We invest alongside Affiliates in their distribution platform has raised $13 billion and expansion of their businesses.
business development and, through our for OMAM Affiliates and continues to build profit sharing structure, participate in Our strategy is rooted in core Affiliate relationships in high-demand markets their resulting margin expansion and growth.
Our Affiliates are strong across the globe.
investment management boutiques The final element of our growth strategy, with highly-defined and highly-rigorous acquisitions of additional asset investment strategies for which there is management boutiques, provides an incremental earnings growth opportunity as well as additional diversification in Growth strategy investment styles, product offerings, OMAMs multi-boutique model is well positioned and institutional clienteles.
OMAM is recognised as a supportive and effective for growth, with four areas of focus partner to our Affiliates and we continue to cultivate relationships with a wide range of high-quality, entrepreneurial boutique asset management firms committed to the growth of their businesses.
Since 2012, the execution of our growth strategy has New contributed meaningfully to an increase in partnerships Four key Multi-boutique value gross sales at OMAM.
On an annual basis, growth areas proposition drives between 16% and 33% of gross sales can Global incremental growth be directly traced to OMAM-led activities distribution opportunities including new initiatives, product seeding, global distribution and sales from new Collaborative organic growth Affiliates acquired by OMAM.
Growth and Seed Co-Investment Capital We support our growth strategy through a flexible and efficient capital structure Core Affiliate Growth and a focus on strategically managing our Investment P erformance and Net Client Cash Flows capital.
Our business generates significant, recurring free cash flow that can be OMAMs aligned partnership model reinvested in growth-oriented activities to Operating autonomy Affiliate-level employee ownership create value for shareholders.
In addition Long-term perspective T alent management to allocating capital to enhance our existing Profit-sharing model Strategic business support Affiliates businesses and investing in new Affiliates, we currently maintain a 25% payout ratio and an opportunistic share Unique partnership repurchase programme.
approach provides stability and foundation for growth
