Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 113 Service agreements and payments for loss of office Executive directors service agreements are designed to provide an appropriate level of protection for the executive and the Company by: i setting out individual entitlements to elements of remuneration consistent with policy: ii summarising notice periods and compensation on termination of employment by the Company: and iii describing the obligations in relation to confidentiality, data protection, intellectual property and restraint on certain activities.
In the event that the employment of an executive director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service agreement between the Company and the executive director, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Companys policy is to make payments in accordance with pre-established contractual arrangements, but with consideration of individual circumstances.
These circumstances may include the reason for termination and, for deferred STI, MSIP and legacy LTI share incentive awards, some discretion in the determination of Good Leaver status for vesting of such awards.
The policy in this respect is set out in the following table: Standard provision Policy Details Notice Policy is to provide a maximum of 12 months notice.
In certain cases, executive directors will not be required to work their notice period and, depending on the circumstances, may be put on garden leave or granted pay in lieu of all or part of their notice period PILON.
PILON, including base pay, benefits and pension-related benefits, would normally be paid monthly and be subject to mitigation when alternative employment is secured but may also be paid as a lump sum Executive directors are generally subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Treatment of STI awards STI awards will be made to Good Leavers based on Paid in cash.
an overall assessment of corporate and personal performance and pro-rated for the period worked in the performance year of termination.
Treatment of MSIP awards All awards lapse except for Good Leavers.
MSIP vesting for Good Leavers is based on the achievement of performance conditions.
The number of shares to vest would be calculated on a pro-rata basis, based on the period of time after the date of grant or 14 March 2016 in the case of the initial awards and ending on the date of termination relative to the restricted period up to the vesting date.
The committee retains the discretion not to apply time-based pro-rating where appropriate.
Treatment of unvested All awards lapse except for Good Leavers.
Legacy L TI vesting for Good Leavers is based legacy LTI and deferred on the achievement of performance conditions.
STI share incentive awards The number of shares to vest would be calculated on a pro-rata basis, based on the period of time after the date of grant and ending on the date of termination relative to the restricted period Deferred STI awards for Good Leavers vest fully on termination, subject to the committees discretion to lapse part or all of the award.
Compensation for loss Settlement agreements with executive directors Terms are subject to the signing of a of office may provide for, as appropriate: settlement agreement.
Incidental costs related to the termination, such as legal fees for advice on the settlement agreement Provision of outplacement services Payment in lieu of accrued, but untaken, holiday entitlements Exit payments in relation to any legal obligation or damages arising from such obligation Settlement of any claim arising from the termination Continuation or payment in lieu of other incidental benefits In the case of redundancy, two weeks base pay per year of service.
Subject to further adjustments which may be applied to discretionary Good Leavers as set out in the Treatment of incentive awards on termination, change of control or other corporate events section of this policy.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 114 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Standard provision Policy Details Non-executive directors One months notice 12 months for the Chairman Non-executive directors are subject to Appointed for an initial three-year term annual re-election at the Companys Normally expected to serve two three-year terms, Annual General Meeting.
subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting A third term of up to three years, or longer in exceptional circumstances may be offered on a year-by-year basis after completion of the first two terms.
Treatment of incentive awards on termination, change of control or other corporate events For all deferred short-term incentives, legacy long-term incentives, and MSIP awards, the share incentive plan rules provide for automatic Good Leaver status on termination of employment in the event of: i death: ii injury or disability: iii redundancy: iv the employing company or business ceasing to be a subsidiary or business of Old Mutual plc: and v certain takeovers and other corporate events.
In addition, the committee has discretion to award Good Leaver status for any other reason discretionary Good Leavers.
In these circumstances, the committee has discretion to apply less generous terms than would apply under the automatic Good Leaver reasons.
The committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the executive directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
Following the execution of the managed separation, it is not expected that the executive directors will have roles in the resulting independent entities.
This is addressed in the table below: Component Automatic Good Leaver Other leaver Change of control Other corporate events STI Pro-rata payment for No award will be At the discretion of No impact, but the period worked in the made.
performance targets may performance year, based on need to be reviewed.
agreed performance criteria Paid in cash.
Deferred STI The committee has Outstanding awards Vest automatically except The committee has the discretion to vest all are forfeit.
in the case of internal discretion to amend awards on termination.
re-organisations or deferred STI awards mergers as defined in the under the rules of the rules, where there may be plan, to adjust deferred an automatic surrender STI awards in the event of and replacement of any variation of the share awards in the new capital of the Company, acquiring company.
and to adjust or vest deferred STI awards on a demerger, special dividend or other similar event, which affects the market price of the shares to a material extent.
Anyone who is not a Good Leaver or a discretionary Good Leaver.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 115 Component Automatic Good Leaver Other leaver Change of control Other corporate events MSIP Vest on the normal vesting date Outstanding awards Awards may be Demerger: awards may except where exceptional are forfeit.
exchanged or may vest be split into separate reasons apply, when vesting subject to the achievement awards, exchanged for may be immediate, subject to of performance measures new awards over the achievement of performance and pro-rated to reflect demerged company, targets, calculated on a the reduced period of adjusted or vested at the pro-rata basis, based on the time between the date committees discretion period of time after the date of grant or 14 March Other corporate events: of grant or 14 March 2016 in 2016 in the case of the the committee has the the case of the initial awards initial awards and discretion to amend MSIP and ending on the date of vesting rounded up to awards under the rules of termination relative to the the next whole year.
The the plan, to adjust MSIP restricted period committee may disapply awards in the event of The committee has discretion pro-rating if it considers it any variation of the share to disapply automatic timeappropriate to do so.
capital of the Company, based pro-rating of awards and to adjust or vest MSIP for Good Leavers before the awards on a special date at which the managed dividend or other similar separation is complete event, which affects the Options will be granted on market price of the shares the basis that there will be to a material extent.
no time-based pro-rating of awards where the managed separation is completed before the end of the four-year long-stop period and the director remains in employment at that time, but the committee retains discretion to apply time-based pro-rating if appropriate.
Legacy LTI Vest on the normal vesting Outstanding awards Vest subject to the The committee has the date except in the event are forfeit.
achievement of discretion to amend L TI of death or where other performance measures awards under the rules exceptional compassionate and pro-rated from grant of the plan, to adjust L TI reasons apply, when vesting date to the anniversary awards in the event of may be immediate, subject to of grant date following any variation of the share achievement of performance change of control.
In capital of the Company, targets, calculated on a the case of internal and to adjust or vest L TI pro-rata basis, based on the re-organisations or awards on a demerger, period of time after the date mergers as defined in the special dividend or other of grant and ending on the rules, there may be an similar event, which affects date of termination relative automatic surrender and the market price of the to the restricted period replacement of awards shares to a material extent.
The committee has discretion in the new acquiring to disapply time-based company.
The committee pro-rating of awards when may disapply pro-rating if appropriate.
it considers it appropriate to do so.
Sharesave In line with HMRC rules and In line with HMRC In line with HMRC The committee does not the rules of Sharesave.
rules and the rules of rules and the rules of have the discretion under Sharesave.
the rules of the plan to adjust the number of shares under option.
The committee retains the discretion to make reasonable and proportionate changes to the New Policy if the committee considers this appropriate in order to respond to changing legal or regulatory requirements or guidelines including but not limited to any PRA guidance relating to Solvency II.
This includes the ability to make administrative changes to benefit the operation of the New Policy and or to implement such changes ahead of any formal effective date, ensuring timely compliance.
Where proposed changes are considered by the committee to be material, the Company will consult its major shareholders.
Any changes would be formally incorporated into the New Policy when it is next put to shareholders for approval.
The committee retains the discretion, acting in accordance with the applicable share plan rules, to adjust the delivery of awards at the completion of the managed separation, reflecting the circumstances of the corporate events.
