Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 137 STI There has been no change to the maximum award of 150% of base pay payable to each of the executive directors or the metrics used to measure performance: however, the weighting of metrics for Ingrid Johnson has been changed so that there is a consistent weighting for both executive directors.
2016 structure % of maximum STI Group financial targets Executive director 50% RoE and 50% EPS in constant currency Personal scorecard metrics Bruce Hemphill 75% 25% Ingrid Johnson 60% 40% 2017 structure % of maximum STI Group financial targets Executive director 50% RoE and 50% EPS in constant currency Personal scorecard metrics Bruce Hemphill 75% 25% Ingrid Johnson 75% 25% Downward adjustments risk management A potential downward adjustment of up to 5% will be applied based on the outcome of two risk-based metrics.
Achievement of the target or better will result in no adjustment to the outcome: achievement at or below the threshold will result in a 5% downward adjustment to the outcome, with straight-line interpolation between threshold and target.
There will also be a qualitative risk assessment undertaken by the Groups Chief Risk Officer and endorsed by the Board Risk Committee, which will cover management of risk in relation to risk management policy and risk appetite limits, audit governance reports and regulatory breaches.
In addition, any financial performance not adequately reflected in the financial performance measures will be considered in this qualitative assessment.
The committee has discretion to make an uncapped downward adjustment to the outcome of the STI in the event of any material risk management or financial underperformance issues.
LTI Following the introduction of the MSIP, no further long-term incentive awards will be granted to the current executive directors.
2015 LTIP awards Strategic objectives update At the Companys General Meeting on 28 June 2016, shareholders approved a proposal for the committee to revise the strategic component of the 2015 LTIP awards to align with the managed separation strategy.
We have maintained the weighting of the strategic objective at 30% and have replaced the original strategic objective, which focused on: i In Africa, building a financial services champion: ii In the UK, building the leading retail investment business: and iii The delivery of our culture and responsible business objectives, and have replaced them with a single strategic objective as set out below, linked to the progress made towards achieving managed separation as at the end of the 2015 LTIP performance period 31 December 2017.
The committee has satisfied itself that the revised objective is not materially less difficult to achieve than the original objectives and is not detrimental to participants.
Execution of the managed separation 30% This performance condition is directly aligned with the execution of the managed separation strategy.
An assessment of progress made towards the separation of the Group into four standalone businesses including the elimination of plc costs will be made in the judgement of the committee at the end of the plan performance period 31 December 2017, taking consideration of the key criteria of: Appropriate capitalisation of the businesses The managed separation shall set the businesses up for success, including being appropriately capitalised in relation to both regulatory requirements and local market competitiveness.
Quality of transaction execution Quality assessment will reflect the balance of the key components of time, cost, risk and value: The time criteria will be considered with respect to certain transactions being critical to the future managed separation of other businesses.
Also, the current Group structure contains inherent risks which will be mitigated once separation is achieved and therefore it is important to prioritise speed of execution The cost criteria will be assessed against both the expected reduction of continuing plc costs and the management of transaction costs advisers, etc.
Lastly, these cost criteria also include the reduction in plc debt costs through the cost-effective management of plc debt The risk criteria include consideration of regulatory, reputational, investor and other non-financial impacts In addition, value will be considered in terms of whether the transaction was completed in a manner consistent with creating shareholder value over time.
