Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 75 Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 2.
Political risk Changing government policy and public sentiment in the key countries where we Old Mutual will continue to engage and operate could potentially influence external perceptions of the Group, regulations and work with relevant stakeholders to be alert to taxation governing our products, business ownership impacting our customer base political developments.
The Boards of both our and fungibility restrictions particularly in South Africa.
Political risk also creates South African businesses and the Group continue additional risks in the macroeconomic environment see page 74. to monitor and assess the impact of political risks.
Political risk became particularly acute in 2016, as a Brexit vote in the UK and a Trump We are actively engaging with the South African presidential election victory in the US defied the odds and market expectations.
This includes leading the engagement with government and South Africas big businesses Given the significant portion of our business in South Africa, we are particularly across financial services, mining, industrial and exposed to political developments there.
Exposures include the business we receive telecommunications sectors, on ways to improve from collective labour organisations and public sector workers, which presents the sentiment on South Africas investment case and risk of mass exits from our products following a change in sentiment.
managing the sovereign ratings downgrade risk.
In Zimbabwe, President Mugabe is adhering to the Indigenisation Act.
Liquidity issues This positive engagement was widely viewed as for the country continue, leading to the issuance of bond notes by the government in helping to avoid a sovereign downgrade in 2016.
Social unrest persists, exacerbated by the lingering effects of drought.
In OMEM, Political risks are explicitly incorporated into our the consequence of this is increased growth in the Central African Building Society stress and scenario testing.
The scenario testing CABS as people look to a quality provider: however, there is continuing risk over mentioned above, on the impacts of Brexit and how the ongoing situation in Zimbabwe could affect the value of CABS.
a Trump presidency, included specific testing Looking forward on the political risk implications for our managed The effects of Brexit and Trumps presidency election victory are yet to be fully separation.
We plan to further enhance our appreciated.
With many large Eurozone country elections in 2017, it remains to be testing over 2017. seen whether the so-called populist trend will continue.
The South African political arena is expected to remain polarised, with significant leadership and transition uncertainty ahead of the 2017 African National Congress ANC conference and 2019 national elections.
In Zimbabwe, given continuing economic crises and social unrest, 2017 is expected to bring further challenges.
Tensions are likely to continue to escalate between President Mugabe, opposition parties and his own party membership.
