Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 74 RISKS CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties In 2016 our key principal risks have been updated to reflect the risks and opportunities of the managed separation strategy.
They have been determined by assessing the possible effects and challenges of unlocking the value in each of the four individual businesses, and the impacts this could have on our reputation, stakeholders, earnings, and capital and liquidity positions.
These risks are summarised in the table below and are closely monitored and overseen by plc management and regularly reported to the plc Board.
As long as we remain a Group, the key principal risks facing our businesses will remain in line with those reported in 2015, with the managed separation placing a different emphasis on each risk.
However, the managed separation has substantially changed the plcs risks see page 78.
Our businesses are affected by a number of risks inherent to the products they offer and the industries they operate in, such as exposure to market levels, interest rates, credit and liquidity as a consequence of insurance liability risk.
These drive a significant proportion of our capital requirements and earnings volatility exposure as well as requirements for cash and liquidity buffers.
Given the nature of our product offering, market and environment risks are material: market movement impacts on asset-based fees generated from client-selected investments and credit risk within Nedbank and OMEM is correlated to market conditions.
Our principal risks are detailed below.
Additional risk information per business is in their business review sections.
Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 1.
Global macroeconomic conditions The current persistently volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous macroeconomic We regularly monitor multiple external economic environments could impact consolidated Group profitability, as with all financial factors and incorporate them into group-wide stress services firms.
and scenario testing to understand our earnings, liquidity and capital resilience to severe OMAM, OMW and OMEMs asset management businesses explicitly seek market risk macroeconomic events.
as part of their business strategies and are exposed to asset-based fee risk.
Market risk also arises through guaranteed business in OMEM and residual guarantees in OMB.
In 2016 we undertook specific scenario testing on the possible economic impacts of a South African In our insurance and investment businesses, and especially in OMEM, our earnings sovereign downgrade, Brexit and a Trump are at risk if our customers exit our products at a different time to our expectations or presidential election victory: these incorporated where business volumes are lower.
a range of possible outcomes and enabled us to In our lending businesses, earnings are at risk if counterparties fail to meet their identity mitigating actions.
The businesses also interest and principal obligations, impacted by global economic conditions.
perform testing on their own plans.
Our exposure to South African sovereign debt lies only within the local businesses.
In light of the managed separation strategy, we have From a systemic risk point of view, Old Mutual Group Holdings holding company updated the plcs financial risk appetite metrics to above Old Mutual and Nedbank has significant country risk exposure to South Africa.
focus on central liquidity resources, capital and earnings volatility: these are updated dynamically Looking forward and projected over the managed separation period.
The long-term economic impacts of Brexit are unknown.
The immediate impact of the weakening pound against the South African rand and US dollar during 2016 Within OMEM, market and liquidity risks arising has been favourable but the Groups currency translation risk remains.
However, from guaranteed products, and the hedges in uncertainty and lower growth have adversely affected net client cash flows in OMW.
place to manage them, are actively managed by the Balance Sheet Management team.
Guaranteed Initial market reaction to Trumps presidential election victory has seen markets rally products in OMB are managed through various and suggests anticipation of higher US growth, a stronger dollar and increasing hedging programmes.
However, there is a risk that expected stimulus measures may already be priced-in, and that these expectations may be disappointed.
Asset-based fee risk is managed by offering customers a comprehensive range of internally In South Africa, a sovereign credit downgrade to below investment grade status was managed investment solutions and by diversifying averted in 2016.
But this risk remains in 2017, due to the challenging growth outlook and our product offering.
US interest rate hikes, putting pressure on South Africas own inflation and interest rates, and persistent drought add further headwinds.
We are exposed to the risk of a short-term spike in interest rates following a South African sovereign downgrade, which could result in temporary liquidity strain arising from hedging collateral calls in OMEM.
In the UK, the process of formally applying to leave the EU under Article 50 could lead to market uncertainty that impacts sentiment and confidence in the savings industry.
The implementation of the managed separation is not market-dependent, but volatile markets could impact the value realised: timing of activities is being carefully managed to ensure value creation.
