Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 96 CORPOR A TE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The committee considers the current We continue to make significant efforts The Chairman, and the Chair of the Board composition at Old Mutual plc to educate the public markets and to Remuneration Committee, had extensive level suitable for the Groups business communicate openly with our shareholders, engagements with shareholders to discuss requirements.
Following adoption of institutional debt and equity investors the new directors remuneration policy, the strategy of managed separation, around the world, and sell-side analysts by including the MSIP, which was subsequently the planned programme of non-executive means of a proactive investor relations IR approved at the Companys General director retirements from the Board programme run by a small, dedicated IR Meeting in June 2016.
The IR team referred to in last years Annual Report team based in London and South Africa.
updates the Board on issues arising has been suspended as it lacks relevance The team works closely with the media from communications with the investment to a company which is winding down relations, responsible business and public community.
It also commissions independent its operations.
The existing Board is affairs teams around the Group.
Old Mutuals surveys to inform the Board about how currently anticipated to stay in place investor base is very diverse in both investor major investors see the Companys until the managed separation process style and geographic location and the Group management and performance.
is substantially complete, although this has around 440,000 retail shareholders.
Our intranet gives employees easy access will be kept under active review.
In 2016, we conducted investor meetings to key information about the Group, in the UK, South Africa, North America including its culture, vision, strategy and How has the launch of and continental Europe, involving 204 financial performance.
Regular senior the managed separation individual institutions.
Most meetings management roadshows give employees affected our Investor involved the Group Chief Executive, the further opportunities to understand more Relations Programme Group Finance Director or another about the aims of the Group.
member of the plc management team.
The Number of investor events We have adapted our plans and strategy Group Finance Director continued to build during 2016 excluding sell-side to reflect that the objective during relationships during 2016, in particular and governance meetings managed separation is to highlight one-to-one meetings with sell-side analysts 247 events in total the underlying operations of the four in Europe and South Africa.
As part of the 216 with management 31 IR only businesses, their performance and managed separation, we embarked on a 204 institutions.
the activities of the holding company.
programme to introduce existing potential What are the arrangements shareholders to the management teams We conducted separate roadshows for of the four businesses so that they start for Annual General individual businesses.
We held a capital to develop their own relationships.
markets event during the year which was The Board uses the AGM, held at the webcast and had over 100 attendees.
Copies of all investor presentations and, Companys Head Office in London each The event programme was: where appropriate, transcripts are posted year, to comment on the Groups results for on the Companys website so that they Introduction to the day and overview the previous year and developments during are accessible to shareholders generally.
of managed separation strategy the current year to date.
Shareholders Bruce Hemphill Group Chief Executive Currently 13 sell-side analysts from Europe also have the opportunity to ask the Board OMW presentation and Q&A and South Africa actively publish research questions.
The AGM is webcast and a Paul Feeney and Steve Braudo on the Company.
We encourage sell-side record of the proceedings is also made CEO and COO of OMW analysts to cover the Company giving Nedbank presentation and Q&A available on the Companys website shortly investors their opinions on the Groups Mike Brown CEO of Nedbank after the end of the meeting.
All formal valuation, performance and the business OMEM presentation and Q&A business items at the AGM are conducted environment in which it operates and Ralph Mupita CEO of OMEM on a poll, rather than by a show of hands.
also to make meaningful comparisons OMAM presentation and Q&A The Companys share registrars ensure with our peers.
Peter Bain CEO of OMAM that all properly submitted proxy votes are Execution of the strategy Rob Leith The Chairman makes contact with counted, and a senior member of the UK Director of Managed Separation major investors and meets them as registrars staff acts as scrutineer to ensure Unlocking value and closing remarks required.
The Senior Independent that votes cast are correctly received Bruce Hemphill.
Director is also available for and recorded.
A significant number of sell-side research interaction with shareholders.
Matters analysts specialising in UK Wealth raised in these governance-focused Management attended the event.
meetings during 2016 included the Companys strategy, regulatory developments, remuneration, succession planning, diversity and transformation.
