Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 24 Business Nedbank review How we operate Our products Our areas of strength Our clients and services and differentiation Nedbank Corporate and Investment Banking CIB Corporates, institutions and Full suite of wholesale banking Leading industry expertise in infrastructure, mining parastatals with an annual solutions, including investment and resources, oil and gas, telecoms and energy turnover of over R750 million.
banking and lending: global Market leadership in commercial property finance and markets and treasury: renewable energy financing 600 large corporate clients commercial property finance: Strong corporate banking relationships deposit-taking: and Ranked first in 2016 Spire awards in the following categories: transactional banking.
Interest Rate Derivatives House, Market Making Team Government Bonds, Sales Team Bonds, Sales Team Interest Rate Derivatives, and Research Team Technical Analysis FX, IRD, Bonds.
Nedbank Retail and Business Banking RBB Individual clients, as well Full range of services, including Strong business banking franchise underpinned by an as businesses with an annual transactional banking: card accountable, empowered, decentralised business service model turnover of under R750 million.
solutions: lending solutions: Leader in corporate saver deposits and debtor management 7.4 million retail and smalldeposit-taking: risk Strong positioning in household motor finance, household business clients management: investment deposits and card acquiring 22,000 business banking products: and card-acquiring Received the 2015 Best African Retail Bank of the Y ear award client groups services for business.
at the 2016 Retail Banking Global Conference and Awards Highly competitive relationship banking offering for affluent clients professional banking.
Nedbank Wealth High-net worth individuals as Wide range of financial Integrated international high-net worth proposition well as other retail, business services, including high-netNedbank Private Wealth Best International Wealth Management and corporate clients.
worth banking and wealth Provider UK and Best International Banking Service non-UK, 15,500 high-net worth clients management solutions, as as well as ranked first in the entrepreneur category of the 2016 locally and internationally well as asset management Intellidex Top Private Banks and Wealth Managers Survey.
Euromoney Private Banking and Wealth Management Survey: First place for philanthropic advice Unique Best of Breed asset management model.
Nedgroup Investments won Offshore Asset Management Company of the Y ear for the second consecutive year and achieved third place in the SA Management Company of the Y ear at the 21st Annual Raging Bull Awards.
This is the eighth consecutive year that Nedgroup Investments has been placed in the top three domestic management companies.
Rest of Africa Retail, small and medium Full range of banking services The EcobankNedbank Alliance across 39 countries: enterprises SMEs, and business including transactional, the largest footprint in Africa and corporate clients across lending, deposit-taking Banco nico: Best Bank in Mozambique award by the the countries we operate in.
Euromoney Awards for Excellence in 2016 and 2015: Best Consumer Digital Bank by Global Finance, 2015 and 2016.
295,000 retail clients The Banker 2016 Bank of the year for Mozambique Malawi: Best Customer Service Bank for 2016 awarded by Global Banking and Finance
