Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 104 DIRECTORS REMUNER A TION REPOR T In this section, we describe the Directors Remuneration Policy and how our directors were paid during 2016.
Annual Statement On behalf of the Remuneration Committee referred to in the rest of this report as the committee, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2016.
2016 was a year of significant strategic change with the announcement of the managed separation of the Group in March.
This required a complete review of our remuneration policy, with particular emphasis on aligning our incentive plans to the strategy.
There continues to be significant government and media focus on executive pay which the committee monitors carefully.
We remain committed to ensuring there is strong alignment with shareholder interests in the pay arrangements for our executives and to operate with complete transparency in discharging our duties Danuta Gray through the managed separation process.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 112 External directorships 125 Scheme int erests awarded during 2016 Contents 1 12 Consider ation of employment 131 P ayments to past directors conditions elsewhere in the Group 131 P ayments for loss of office 1 12 Appr oach to remuneration in 132 Dir ectors shareholdings and 104 139 connection with recruitment share interests 1 13 Service a greements and payments 134 Shar es in trust and shareholder for loss of office dilution Annual Statement 1 14 T reatment of incentive awards on 135 Performance graphs 104 Annual S tatement from the Chairman termination, change of control or 135 Gr oup Chief Executives remuneration of the Remuneration Committee other corporate events over the last eight years 1 16 Ho w shareholders views are 136 P ercentage change in the Our remuneration at a glance reflected in the New Policy remuneration of the Group 107 Alignment o f executive remuneration 1 16 Dat es of directors service contracts Chief Executive to our strategy and shareholder value and letters of appointment 136 R elative importance of spend on pay 107 P erformance against targets in 2016 1 16 Dir ectors Remuneration Policy 136 Implement ation of remuneration 107 Single t otal figures of remuneration table non-executive directors policy in 2017 for 2016 137 20 15 LTIP awards Strategic 107 Implement ation of policy in 2017 objectives update Annual Report on 138 Solvency II Remuneration 138 Consider ation by the directors Directors Remuneration Policy 117 Market benchmarks of matters relating to directors 108 Introduction 1 17 Single t otal figures of remuneration remuneration 108 Dir ectors Remuneration Policy table for executive directors 139 A dvisers to the committee executive directors 1 18 A dditional requirements in respect 139 V oting at General Meetings 1 12 No tes to the Directors Remuneration of the single total figure table 139 Consider ation of shareholder views Policy table executive directors 125 Single t otal figures of remuneration 1 12 P erformance measures and targets for non-executive directors Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 105 businesses and OMW, which were Review of performance disclosed at the beginning of the period, and plan outcomes in 2016 and restructuring, risk, governance, This has been a year of significant change for culture and reputation objectives, which the Group and for its four businesses, against we agreed would be fully disclosed at the a backdrop of unprecedented political and end of the period to avoid any potential economic turmoil in some of our key markets.
commercial disadvantage to the Group.
Stock markets and currencies have been Full disclosure of each of these objectives The change in especially volatile in the aftermath of the UKs and the committees assessment of delivery EU referendum and the US presidential strategy prompted is contained in this report.
The forces at play in the financial the committee world, with increasing emphasis by The committee reviews risk management to review the regulators and politicians on ring-fencing and controls across the Group annually, and protectionism, support our strategy in taking input from the Board Risk Committee current executive ways that could not have been foreseen a and the Groups Chief Risk Officer, to remuneration year ago.
Despite the challenging external ensure that financial results and strategic environment, our businesses performed arrangements projects over a oneand three-year resiliently during 2016, with adjusted period have been achieved within the and consider how operational profit AOP pre-tax of 1.
7 risk framework and risk appetite limits our remuneration billion, being flat in the period IFRS: 1, 216 established for the Group.
Although million, up 1%, 1% growth in AOP EPS to 19.4 structures should the Group had operated within the pence growth stated on a constant currency expected risk framework and policies, evolve to support basis and RoE of 13.3% relative to 14.2% in the committee exercised its discretion the managed 2015.
This is a resilient performance, and a to apply a downward adjustment of 6% much improved second half, given the separation to the outcome of the 2014 LTIP, to take external challenges the businesses had to consideration of the projected time and face in our main markets.
cost overruns of the OMW UK platform IT transformation project.
Total Shareholder Return continued to outperform the FTSE 100 in 2016: however, Summary returns on the JSE ALSI were behind the Whilst the STI outcome was broadly in line index over the year.
Notwithstanding with the 2015 outcome for the executive this, we generated a good return for our directors, the LTIP vested at its lowest investors, 18.5% on the LSE and 13.7% The outcome of the personal element, level since 2010.
The committee was on the JSE ALSI over the last three years which is based on an assessment of each satisfied, taking consideration of the factors using a three month average at the executive against a personal scorecard, discussed above, that the outcomes overall beginning and end of these periods.
is contained in this report, along with fairly reflected the performance delivered details of the performance assessment These metrics are the principal financial and the value created for shareholders for the executive directors that held measures that the committee considers over the oneand three-year periods of office in 2016.
We believe this improves in the incentive plans for executives, and the plans.
The committee will continue transparency of how the total incentive the resilient results are therefore reflected to monitor pay closely against relevant outcomes have been determined.
in the incentive outcomes measured performance and market benchmarks to against performance periods ending ensure it is appropriate for the remainder Long-Term Incentive 31 December 2016.
This is consistent of the managed separation process.
The awards under the long-term incentive with our commitment to align executive plan LTIP, originally granted in 2014, Key areas of focus remuneration to company performance vested at 48.9% of maximum after the and shareholder interests.
during the year committee had applied discretion to the New Directors outcome.
The 2014 LTIP scorecard was Short-Term Incentive Remuneration Policy and based on a combination of financial and The short-term incentive STI plan has strategic objectives determined at the the Managed Separation two components a financial component beginning of the performance period, Incentive Plan and a personal performance component.
The The change in strategy prompted the The committee approved an outcome of strategic component represented 40% of committee to review the current executive 84.2% of maximum for the financial the total scorecard and was split between remuneration arrangements and consider element of the STI, reflecting the stretching growth objectives for our African how our remuneration structures should performance delivered in 2016.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 106 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED evolve to support the managed separation.
We are committed Looking forward to 2017 As a result, following extensive consultation to operating the New Policy and the In accordance with the flexibility afforded with many of our largest shareholders, the MSIP in a transparent and responsible in the New Policy, the committee considered committee introduced a new Directors manner, monitoring progress relative to an appropriate structure for the 2017 STI Remuneration Policy referred to in the the balancing criteria of time, cost, risk for executives.
It concluded that it was remainder of this report as the New Policy.
Solid progress was made still appropriate for the most significant The New Policy was required to enable the in 2016, as detailed later in this report.
component of the STI to be linked to the committee to align the incentives of our overall financial results of the Group, Continued focus on executives to the new strategy and delivery as this is critical to continuing to deliver executive pay of positive outcomes for shareholders.
shareholder value while the strategy There is a significant UK Government and is being delivered, as well as maintaining To this aim, the committee believed that a media focus on executive pay at the present momentum in business performance.
one-time long-term incentive arrangement, time.
The UK Government is concerned that The remainder of the STI is linked to a covering multiple years in line with the public trust in large corporates has eroded personal scorecard.
contemplated timeframe of the managed as the gulf between executives and separation, was required to align From 2017, the STI structure will have average workers pay has widened.
executives to the new strategy, taking consistent weighting for the executive into account the finite nature of that The committee considers these issues directors performance metrics, being: strategy and the Companys Head Office.
carefully but also has to have regard to financial metrics 75% 37.
5% The following proposals were therefore shareholder interests in attracting and EPS in constant currency and personal put to our shareholders at a General motivating a strong management team to scorecard metrics: 25%.
Meeting held on 28 June 2016: carry out a difficult managed separation.
As we progress through separation, our The committee believes that this The introduction of the New Policy, which remuneration policy will increasingly be structure appropriately balances the included the introduction of our new tailored to local company circumstances need to continue to return exceptional long-term incentive plan, the Managed rather than an overall group framework.
performance, while delivering on key Separation Incentive Plan MSIP The Group in its current form is made up milestone strategic objectives during The introduction of new share incentive plan rules the Old Mutual plc of very distinct businesses operating in the year.
Managed Separation Incentive Plan, different markets and we strive to achieve The committee remains committed to specifically designed to deliver the fairness in each of them.
Given our current exercising appropriate governance MSIP awards to executives situation, we do not consider that a pay and oversight of remuneration matters Authority for the modification of the strategic ratio is a relevant disclosure but we shall element of the performance conditions across the Group as the businesses ready continue to monitor the situation.
attached to the L TIP awards granted in 2015 themselves for separation and the plc and the Group Chief Executives 2015 L TIP With changes likely to take effect executives execute the strategy.
We will buyout award, to be consistent with the towards the latter stages of the managed continue to ensure alignment of managed separation strategy separation process, the committee will performance and delivery to reward of From performance year 201 7 onwards, monitor developments and will play a the executive team, as well as ensure that provision for the committee to determine the role in helping the businesses to adopt the businesses have remuneration policies metrics for STI awards on an annual basis best practices.
and incentive arrangements in place that during the managed separation process.
responsibly and effectively align their Since the Executive Remuneration Working We are grateful for the support we received executive teams to delivery of the managed Group reported in July last year, a number from shareholders, with 81.71% of votes cast separation strategy and long-term business of investors and the Investment Association being in favour of the New Policy with a performance that creates sustainable which established the Working Group similar level of support for the adoption of shareholder value over time.
have encouraged companies to adopt new share incentive plan rules the Plan, incentive plans that best suit their I hope that you find this report helpful and 93.17% of votes being cast in favour companys strategy and business cycle.
and a clear indication of the committees of the Directors Remuneration Report The MSIP, designed with the objective commitment to aligning executive pay to excluding the Directors Remuneration of incentivising our executives to deliver shareholder interests.
Policy for the year ended 31 December our separation strategy in a manner that 2015.
However, the committee is mindful delivers value to our shareholders, is that the level of votes against the New Policy Danuta Gray aligned to the Working Groups views.
and the Plan indicated that a significant Chairman of the minority of shareholders had concerns Remuneration Committee
