Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 85 are in place for it to meet its objectives, and In addition to its interaction with the two Tenure of monitors management performance and executive directors, the Board interacts with non-executive directors performance reporting.
It is kept informed the other senior executive management Other than in exceptional circumstances, about major developments affecting the including senior executives of the Groups non-executive directors including the Group through the Group Chief Executives main businesses through their regular Chairman serve a maximum of nine years and Group Finance Directors regular participation in Board meetings and in office.
This maximum period consists of reports.
The DMF identifies the matters that other briefing sessions.
two three-year terms, followed by up to are specifically reserved for Board decision three further one-year terms.
Renewal of Separately from the formal Board meeting and protocols governing escalation of non-executive directors engagements for schedule, the Chairman meets with the issues to it and delegation of powers successive terms is not automatic and the non-executive directors, with no executives from it, to ensure clear allocation of continued suitability of each non-executive present, to provide a forum where any responsibility for decision-making.
director is assessed by the Nomination issues can be raised.
He also conducts and Governance Committee before In accordance with the DMF, the Board an annual one-to-one performance their appointment is renewed.
has delegated its executive powers to the evaluation of each of the non-executive Group Chief Executive, with power to directors, and any resulting action points The table below sets out the Boards sub-delegate.
The Group Chief Executive are reported to the Nomination and continuing membership in more detail is supported by the Companys Executive Governance Committee.
The Company and in order of original appointment.
Committee plc Exco and the Managed also facilitates informal meetings among Separation Strategy Committee MS Stratco.
the non-executive directors, without the What is the Boards role The plc Exco supports the Group Chief Chairman or any executive present.
These and how does it operate?
Executive in the discharge of the powers meetings include the annual review of the The Boards role is to exercise stewardship delegated to him by the Board.
The MS Chairmans own performance led by of the Company within a framework of Stratco is the strategic decision-making the Senior Independent Director, who prudent and effective controls that enables forum for the implementation of the managed also obtains whatever input he considers risk to be assessed and managed.
The separation programme and it evaluates appropriate from the executive directors.
Board sets the Companys strategic aims, propositions for the approval of the Board based on recommendations made by the The assignment of responsibilities between regarding the managed separation.
Group Chief Executive, reviews whether the Chairman Patrick OSullivan and Group necessary financial and human resources Chief Executive Bruce Hemphill ensures a clear division between running the Board and executive responsibility for running the Companys business, as set out below.
The Boards current membership Date of original Date current term ends, Current term as director, Role Name and nationality appointment to the Board where applicable where applicable Non-executive director Mike Arnold British September 2009 September 2017 3rd Second year Chairman Patrick OSullivan Irish January 2010 January 2018 3rd Second year Non-executive director Roger Marshall British August 2010 August 2017 3rd First year Senior Independent Director Alan Gillespie British November 2010 November 2017 3rd First year Non-executive director Nonkululeko March 2012 March 2018 2nd Nyembezi-Heita SA Non-executive director Danuta Gray British March 2013 March 2019 2nd Non-executive director Nkosana Moyo Zim September 2013 September 2019 2nd Non-executive director Zoe Cruz US January 2014 January 2020 2nd Non-executive director Adiba Ighodaro British January 2014 January 2020 2nd Group Finance Director Ingrid Johnson SA July 2014 Non-executive director Vassi Naidoo SA British May 2015 May 2018 1st Group Chief Executive Bruce Hemphill SA November 2015 Non-executive director Trevor Manuel SA January 2016 January 2019 1st
