Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 158 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2016 A: Significant accounting policies A1: Basis of preparation Statement of compliance Old Mutual plc the Company or plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales and is the ultimate Parent Company of the Group companies.
plc Head Office collectively refers to the plc Parent Company and the other centre companies of the Group, which typically own and manage the Groups interests across the Group.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures other than those held by life assurance funds which are accounted for as investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Both the Parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies adopted by the Company and Group, unless otherwise stated, have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss or as available-for-sale, owner-occupied property and investment property, cash-settled share-based payments, pension scheme assets and insurance and investment contract liabilities.
Assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of the carrying amount prior to disposal and the fair value less costs to sell.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates, which are stated at cost less impairments in accordance with IAS 27.
The Company and Group financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the Directors believe to be appropriate having taken into consideration the points as set out in the Directors Report in the section headed Going Concern.
The Group has prepared the financial statements in accordance with its detailed accounting policies which can be found at www.
The significant accounting policies are contained in the financial statements and are included in the specific notes to which they relate.
The significant accounting policies on financial assets and liabilities are included in note L. Judgements made by the Directors in the applications of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, are discussed in note A3.
Accounting policy elections The following significant accounting policy elections have been made by the Group: Property and equipment Land and buildings are stated at revalued amounts.
Revaluation surpluses are recognised through other comprehensive income.
Investment in venture capital divisions and In venture capital divisions and insurance funds, the Group has elected to carry associate and joint-venture entities at fair value through profit or loss.
insurance funds Financial instruments The Group has elected to designate certain fixed-rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss to reduce the accounting mismatch.
Regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised using trade date accounting.
Investment properties The Group has elected to recognise all investment properties at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised in profit and loss for the year.
Investments in subsidiaries, associate The Group has elected to recognise these investments at cost in the Company financial statements.
