Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 76 RISKS CONTINUED Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 3.
Strategic execution risk For the foreseeable future, there is a high degree of execution risk across the Group.
A formal managed separation programme and In addition to the implementation of the managed separation, we have major change governance structure have been established across programmes within the businesses, including the OMW and OMEM IT and business the Group, and where required external specialist transformation programmes.
Strategic vision risk has been reduced by the clear aims resources and advisers have been brought on set out for the managed separation.
There is regular interaction with key stakeholders including the various regulators.
Regulatory change across the Group remains high and affects the entire industry: many of these regulatory changes represent opportunities for our businesses.
Each of the four businesses has its own managed The cumulative impact could result in margin compression, resource strain and separation projects in place to ensure they strengthen increased operational risk during transition.
Cyber risk remains a key challenge and enhance their governance structures and for the industry, with attacks becoming increasingly sophisticated.
activities previously undertaken or supplemented by the plc.
In 2016 we created the building blocks for the managed separation.
We undertook extensive planning and stress and scenario testing regarding the different routes by Recommendations from external advisers on which we could achieve the managed separation, taking into account potential impacts OMEM and OMWs IT programme have been on key stakeholders and our cash, capital and earnings positions.
We have identified reviewed by their Boards and are being our current plans which were formulated following extensive engagement with our key implemented.
OMWs programme has been stakeholders and technical advisers, and these discussions continue.
It should be noted replanned with enhanced governance structures.
that the managed separation of a diverse multinational group is a highly complex Specific managed separation-related risks are matter.
Thus, our initial plans remain subject to change, implementing the managed detailed below page 78. separation will require a balance to be struck between the key criteria of value, cost, Further information on mitigating actions within time and risk.
As activities transfer from Old Mutual plc there will be a need to ensure the businesses can be found in each business increased skills and resource capacity within the businesses.
Further information on specific challenges within individual businesses can be found in the business review sections.
Looking forward In 2016, regulatory focus in the UK and EU has largely been on implementation, with Solvency II, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA Senior Insurance Managers Regime and the Market Abuse Regulation coming into effect.
In South Africa, 2016 was a year of postponements to the introduction of key regulation including Twin Peaks.
Regulatory focus in 2017 is expected to be on the implementation of existing regulation rather than introducing a large amount of new reforms.
In the UK this is due to need for regulatory stability given the uncertainty presented by Brexit and, in the US, the Trump administration is expected to follow a deregulatory agenda.
