Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 83 We will continue to monitor and develop Roger Marshall, and the three other What is the Companys our corporate governance as we adapt members are independent non-executive approach to governance?
The Board therefore considers As the Companys primary listing known Vassis membership of the GAC to be in the UK as a premium listing is on the Given the planned outcome of the appropriate and in the Companys London Stock Exchange, this report mainly managed separation strategy, it is more best interests.
addresses the matters covered by the UK important than ever for the Board to focus Corporate Governance Code 2014, but the on the underlying businesses themselves The Companys compliance with the Company also has appropriate regard to and to work more closely with the boards of provisions of the UK Corporate Governance governance expectations in other territories those businesses, as they prepare for life as Code 2014, and the statement relating where its shares are listed.
Board meetings were to the going concern basis adopted in held in Johannesburg in June and in Cape preparing the financial statements set out Has the Company complied Town in December, and on both those towards the end of this section of this report, with the UK Corporate occasions the Board held joint meetings have been reviewed by the Companys Governance Code?
with the boards of OMEM and Nedbank auditor, KPMG LLP, in accordance with Throughout the year ended 31 December Group Limited.
These meetings were guidance published by the UK Auditing 2016 and in the preparation of this Annual focused on the managed separation, in Practices Board.
Report and Accounts, the Company has particular on those businesses strategies The text of the UK Corporate Governance complied with the main and supporting and readiness to be separated from the Code 2014 is available on the Financial principles and provisions set out in the Group.
These regular meetings will Reporting Councils website at: UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 continue in 2017 and we will also be www.
applicable to that period, as described working closely with the new board in more detail in the following sections of Old Mutual Wealth.
Approach to governance of this report.
During 2016, the Company replaced the A fuller account of the Boards activities Each year the Old Mutual plc Nomination previous Group Operating Model adopted is included in the following pages.
and Governance Committee conducts a in 2010, with a new governance framework, review of the membership of the Board and Annual General which we refer to as our Decision-Making its committees.
It was noted that, with the Framework DMF.
The DMF was adopted Meeting AGM appointment of Trevor Manuel to the Board following the adoption of the managed Our AGM will be held in London on Risk Committee BRC in January 2016, separation as the Groups new strategy 25 May 2017.
As usual, the AGM will be the committee membership was out of and is based on an active portfolio webcast via our website and there will be balance, with the BRC having six members manager model, as opposed to the an opportunity for shareholders to submit and the Group Audit Committee GAC former strategic controller model.
questions beforehand to be dealt with having four.
In undertaking this review, at the meeting.
Our shareholder circular The DMF sets out how the Company the requirements of the UK Corporate relating to the AGM includes further details.
discharges its responsibilities as a Governance Code 2014 were considered shareholder of the Groups four and it was acknowledged that Vassi businesses, and its objectives are: Patrick OSullivan Naidoo is not classified as independent Chairman due to his position as Chairman of To establish clear principles of delegation and escalation designed to provide Nedbank Group Limited discussed further appropriate levels of assurance about the below.
Following discussions with the control environment, while retaining flexibility Chairs of the BRC and the GAC, and taking for our businesses to operate efficiently into account the expected timetable of the To set out a clear and comprehensive managed separation strategy, the governance framework with appropriate Nomination and Governance Committee procedures, systems and controls agreed that Vassis skills and experience, facilitating the satisfactory discharge of particularly regarding accounting and the duties and obligations of regulated auditing matters, would augment the firms, directors and employees within existing composition of the GAC.
Vassi the four businesses To articulate clearly what Old Mutual is a UK and South African qualified plc as shareholder expects from accountant, who retired from Deloittes the boards of the businesses when London office at the end of November exercising their powers as set out in 2014.
The GAC is chaired by an their respective constitutions independent non-executive director,
