Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 210 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2016 F: Capital and Financial risk management continued F5: Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short-, mediumand long-term funding and liquidity requirements.
The Group manages liquidity by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities, continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Individual businesses separately maintain and manage their local liquidity requirements according to their business needs, within the overall liquidity framework established by Old Mutual plc.
Under the Groups managed separation strategy, a revised liquidity risk management policy was introduced that is designed to allow for flexibility in managing liquidity.
We hold a buffer at Group level to support this, sufficient to withstand a liquidity survival horizon of at least 12 months.
We also have a multi-year liquidity view over the managed separation horizon.
The Group should be able to meet short-term plausible but extreme losses.
As the businesses transition into separate entities, management will assess their day 1 liquidity requirements and, where appropriate, we will transition liquidity buffers currently held and funded at Old Mutual plc into the businesses.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements, and day-to-day liquidity needs through the Groups available cash resources and, if necessary, available credit facilities.
The Groups liquid resources are held in large portfolios of highly marketable securities, for example listed bonds, actively traded pooled investments, equities and cash and cash equivalents.
Whilst most of the Groups banking deposit liabilities and investment contract liabilities are generally repayable on demand, the Groups expectation is that banking depositors and policyholders will only require funds over the long term rather than immediately.
However, cash resources and other liquid assets are maintained in the event of a need for additional liquidity.
Information on the nature of the investments and securities held is given in note G2.
The Group has access to a 800 million 2015: 800 million multi-currency revolving credit facility.
73 million facility matures in August 2019, a further 73 million of facility matures in August 2020 and the remaining 654 million of the facility matures in August 2021.
At 31 December 2016 none of this facility was drawn.
Details, together with information on the Groups borrowed funds, are given in note G7.
During January 2017, the Group established a new internal 200 million revolving credit facility for the Old Mutual Wealth business.
The key information reviewed by the Groups Executive Directors and Executive Committee is a detailed management report on the Groups and holding companys current and planned capital and liquidity position, together with summary information on the current and planned liquidity positions of the Groups operating segments.
Forecasts are updated regularly based on new information received and also as part of the Groups annual business planning cycle.
The Group and holding companys liquidity and capital position and forecast are presented to the Old Mutual plc Board of Directors on a regular basis.
Additionally the Group conducts regular stress testing around liquidity requirements, as referenced in the Risk Section refer page 79 Group operating segments are required, both in terms of their local requirements and in accordance with direction from the holding company, to establish their own processes for managing their liquidity and capital needs and these are subject to review by their local oversight functions, with representation from the Group.
Further information on liquidity and the holding company cash flows is contained in the financial performance section of the Business Review section.
The Group does not have material liquidity exposure to special purpose entities or investment funds.
The contractual maturities of the Groups financial liabilities are set out in notes G4, G6, G7 and G8.
G: Analysis of financial assets and liabilities G1: Loans and advances The Group extends advances to individuals and to the corporate, commercial and public sectors.
The majority of loans and advances are in respect of Nedbank, which represents 97% 41,703 million : 2015: 96% 29,873 million of the carrying value of the Groups loans and advances.
Nedbank assesses its loan portfolios for impairment at each financial reporting date and manages its exposure to loans and advances through a documented credit approval processes.
Emerging Markets has lending exposure, net of credit impairment provisions, of 1,210 million 2015: 912 million through its non-wholly owned subsidiaries in South Africa, Namibia, Kenya and Zimbabwe.
Credit loss ratios are monitored at each individual business unit level.
Interest earned on loans and advances is analysed in note D3: Banking interest and similar income and credit impairment charges are included in note G1 d Provision for impairment.
