Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 143 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF OLD MUTUAL PLC ONLY For year ended 31 December 2016 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Old Mutual plc for the year ended 31 December 2016, which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes which include the reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to profit after tax.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as discussed below.
a Policyholder liabilities 88,063 million 2015: 75,909 million, Long-term insurance policyholder liabilities 9,982 million 2015: 7, 714 million Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 91 Group Audit Committee Report, pages 220 to 223 accounting policy and the disclosures in notes A3, E and G6 to the financial statements.
The risk Within the life businesses in Emerging Markets and Old Mutual Wealth, judgement is required over the variety of uncertain future outcomes affecting policyholder liabilities, including the estimation of economic assumptions, such as investment return, discount rates, and operating assumptions, such as expense, tax assumptions, mortality and persistency and the policy for creating and releasing discretionary margins held.
Our response Our procedures included testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the measurement and management of the Groups calculation of insurance liabilities and evaluating the appropriateness of methodologies and assumptions used.
We involved our own internal actuarial specialists to assist us in challenging certain assumptions used and the process followed for setting and updating these assumptions, particularly around investment return, discount rates, tax, mortality and persistency assumptions.
This included assessing the data used in managements analysis prepared to set the assumptions, in the context of our own industry knowledge, external data and our views of experience to date, an understanding of which was enhanced through our attendance at the Groups own internal Independent Review Committee meetings.
We also assessed whether the disclosures made relating to the long-term policyholder liabilities is consistent with IFRS and with the methodologies applied by management.
b Loans and advances 44,237 million 2015: 31, 724 million, provisions for impairment 1, 129 million 2015: 759 million Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 91 Group Audit Committee Report, pages 21 1 and 275 to 279 accounting policy and the disclosures in notes A3, E and G1 to the financial statements The risk The banking divisions loans and advances impairment assessment requires judgement and subjective assumptions, particularly the estimated stream of future cash flows and credit losses on the unsecured and commercial lending portfolios at Nedbank and Old Mutual Finance within Emerging Markets.
Our response Our procedures included testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the loan approval, administration and monitoring processes.
We involved our own internal credit specialists to assist us in assessing significant impairment models employed by the Group and comparing the Groups assumptions to externally available data in relation to key inputs such as historical default rates, recovery rates, collateral valuation, and economic growth rates.
We also performed detailed testing over the specific provisions held against a sample of loans and advances, by inspecting latest correspondence and Credit Committee minutes, challenging assumptions where relevant and assessing collateral values.
We also attended the key Nedbank Credit Committee meetings.
We also assessed whether the disclosures made relating to loan loss provisioning is consistent with IFRS and with the methodologies applied by management.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 144 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF OLD MUTUAL PLC ONLY CONTINUED c Goodwill and intangibles 2,471 million 2015: 3,276 million Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 91 Group Audit Committee Report, pages 236 to 237 accounting policy and the disclosures in notes A3 and H1 to the financial statements.
The risk Goodwill and intangible assets both acquired and internally generated represent 1.
4% of total assets of the Group and the determination of their recoverable amount is complex and typically requires a high level of judgement, taking into account the different economic environments in which the Group operates.
The most significant judgements arise over the forecast cash flows, discount rate and growth rate applied in the value-in-use valuation models.
Our response Our procedures included challenging the cash flow forecasts and the corresponding assumptions, such as discount rates and growth rates based on our understanding of the relevant business and the industry and economic environment in which it operates.
We performed sensitivity analyses on the key assumptions in Old Mutual Wealth and the OMSEA cash generating unit in Emerging Markets.
We compared forecasts to business plans and also previous forecasts to actual results to assess the performance of the business and the accuracy of forecasting and considered the appropriateness of the scenarios used, in the context of our wider business understanding.
Our Emerging Markets component team involved their own valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the key assumptions and methodologies used by the Group, in particular those relating to discount rates, and growth rates, with reference to our own independent expectations, which were based on our industry knowledge and experience.
For all of the risk areas set out above, we assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the relevant financial statement items to changes in the respective key assumptions appropriately reflect the associated risks and comply with the requirements of relevant accounting standards.
d Investments and securities 100,533 million 2015: 84,019 million Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 91 Group Audit Committee Report, pages 275 to 279 accounting policy and the disclosures in notes E and G2 to the financial statements.
The risk We do not consider investment and securities to include a high risk of significant misstatement, or to be subject to a significant level of judgment.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole, they are considered to be one of the areas which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit.
The determination of the fair value of certain financial instruments, held at fair value, is a key source of estimation uncertainty.
This applies to both individual financial instruments and also to portfolio valuation adjustments.
At 31 December 2016, investments and securities at fair value through profit or loss represented 56% 2015: 60% of total assets, and available-for-sale assets represented 0.6% 2015: 0.5% of total assets.
The estimation uncertainty is higher for those instruments that are classified as level 3 instruments under IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement, as significant elements of the valuation are not observable.
Of the financial instruments carried at fair value, 1.
Our response At 31 December 2016, level 1 and level 2 instruments primarily comprise listed equity and debt securities and unlisted equity and debt securities respectively.
We selected a sample of these instruments and checked their prices or other observable inputs to independent sources.
At 31 December 2016, level 3 instruments primarily comprise unlisted private equity investments and investment securities.
We used our valuation specialists to challenge the key inputs and assumptions such as estimated cash flows and discount rates which drive the valuation, and to critically assess the valuation methodologies against current market best practice.
We considered sensitivities to key factors including: Assessing the appropriateness of the pricing multiples available from comparable listed companies, adjusted for comparability differences, size and liquidity: and Assessing the reasonableness of the cash flows and discount rates used by comparing them to similar instruments.
We assessed whether the Groups disclosures including the description of the fair value measurement process and the sensitivity to key inputs appropriately reflects the Groups exposure to financial instruments valuation risk.
e Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures 542 million 2015: 514 million, Investment in Ecobank Transnational Incorporated 235 million 2015: 342 million Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 91 Group Audit Committee Report, pages 250 to 251 accounting policy and the disclosures in note I2 to the financial statements.
The risk As at 31 December 2016 the Group has a 21.
2 % investment in Ecobank Transnational Inc ETI, an associate undertakings at a value of 235 million at year end 2015: 342 million.
With volatility in the global financial markets and the lack of observable liquid market inputs, the difficulty in determining appropriate valuations has increased and consequently our assessment of the valuation risk over the investment in ETI has increased in the current year, and has therefore been included within this audit report for the first time.
The investment in ETI is assessed for impairment at least annually by management, by reference to the higher of the fair value and the value in use of the investment.
The fair value of the investment is based on the share price, which is affected by illiquidity in the Nigerian stock exchange.
The value in use is highly sensitive to estimated future cash flows from the ETI investment, discount rate and long-term growth rate.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 145 Our response Regarding the value in use VIU valuation, our procedures included assessing the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasting.
Using our own internal valuation specialists, we independently calculated a range of VIU amounts and compared our independently calculated impairment range to the impairment processed by management.
In arriving at our range: We independently challenged the future cash flows prepared by the Directors by assessing whether they included all known factors and relevant data sources to arrive at the cash flows We independently calculated an appropriate discount rate range taking into account current economic conditions in the West African region as well as factors specific to ETIs financial performance and future prospects.
We factored into our discount rate calculation the execution risk associated with ETI managements business strategy which was used as a basis for the future cash flows: and We used our professional judgement to determine an appropriate long-term growth rate taking into account market available information on growth rates published by external reputable market participants and external analysts 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 69 million 2015: 84 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of normalised Group profit before taxation of 1,667 million 2015: 1,663 million.
As detailed in note C1 in the Group financial statements, this represents the Groups earnings before taxation from continuing operations adjusted for the following items: The effects of short-term market volatility such as short-term fluctuations in investment return The impact of strategic choices and inorganic activity such as goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting and net profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments: and The impact of significant one-off investments in organic growth.
The Group is in the process of executing a managed separation into four independent businesses and at an appropriate point in the future, the Group, in its current structure, will no longer exist.
We have not identified risks of material misstatement arising from the execution of managed separation for the audit of the financial statements the year ended 31 December 2016 however we consider the impact of managed separation in assessing our materiality.
Materiality represents 4.1% 2015: 5% of normalised Group profit before tax.
Materiality was reassessed on a regular basis and this reassessment considered the impact of the execution of the managed separation of the Group on its normalised Group profit before taxation.
We reported to the Group Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 3.4 million 2015: 4 million in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Each of the Groups six business units, being Emerging Markets, Old Mutual Wealth, Nedbank, Institutional Asset Management, Old Mutual Bermuda and plc Head Office businesses, were subjected to audits for Group reporting purposes.
The component audit teams at each of the business units undertook their own scoping exercises, with oversight from the Group team, to gain sufficient audit coverage to support their own reporting to the Group team.
The component teams performed procedures on those items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
The components scoped in for Group reporting purposes accounted for 100% of total Group revenues: 100% of Group profit before tax: and 100% of Group total assets.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved each component materiality, which ranged from 20 million to 45 million 2015: 30 million to 50 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Given the increased aggregation risk attributable to the Groups change in strategy, component materiality across the components was reduced.
To support the audit instructions sent to our component teams, the Group audit team visited three 2015: five component locations in South Africa and elsewhere in the UK and has met one component from the US in the UK for planning and risk assessment meetings.
The Group audit team maintained regular communication with the auditors at these locations throughout the audit cycle to discuss work progress and identify matters of relevance to our audit of the Group financial statements.
At these visits and meetings, the status of any issues being reported to the Group audit team was discussed in detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
The Senior Statutory Auditor, in conjunction with other senior staff in the Group audit team, also attended Audit Committee meetings held at the significant components to understand key risks and audit issues at a component level which may affect the Group financial statements.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic report and the Directors report: We have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and In our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
