Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financials 236 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2016 H: Non-financial assets and liabilities H1: Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business and represents the premium of the amount paid over the fair value of identifiable asset and liabilities.
Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Other intangible assets include those assets which were initially recognised on a business combination and software development costs relate to amounts recognised for in-house systems development.
a Goodwill and goodwill impairment Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an asset at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously-held equity interest if any, this excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least once annually.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On loss of control of a subsidiary undertaking, any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of any profit or loss on disposal.
On disposal of a business, where goodwill on acquisition is allocated to the entire cash-generating unit CGU, goodwill is allocated to the disposal on a relative basis.
Goodwill is allocated to one or more CGUs, being the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
b Present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business The present value of acquired in-force for insurance and investment contract business is capitalised in the consolidated statement of financial position as an intangible asset.
The capitalised value is the present value of cash flows anticipated in the future from the relevant book of insurance and investment contract policies acquired at the date of the acquisition.
This is calculated by performing a cash flow projection of the associated life assurance fund and book of in-force policies in order to estimate future after tax profits attributable to shareholders.
The valuation is based on actuarial principles taking into account future premium income, mortality, disease and surrender probabilities, together with future costs and investment returns on the assets supporting the fund.
These profits are discounted at a rate of return allowing for the risk of uncertainty of the future cash flows.
The key assumptions impacting the valuation are discount rate, future investment returns and the rate at which policies discontinue.
The asset is amortised over the expected profit recognition period on a systematic basis over the anticipated lives of the related contracts.
The amortisation charge is stated net of any unwind in the discount rate used to calculate the asset.
The recoverable amount of the asset is re-calculated at each reporting date and any impairment losses recognised accordingly.
c Other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Contractual banking and asset management customer relationships, relationships with distribution channels and similar intangible assets, acquired as a part of a business combination, are capitalised at their fair value, represented by the estimated net present value of the future cash flows from the relevant relationships acquired at the date of acquisition.
Brands and similar items acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at their fair value based on a relief from royalty valuation methodology.
Subsequent to initial recognition such acquired intangible assets, if not categorised as infinite life, are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as set out below: Distribution channels 10 years Customer relationships 10 years Brand 15 20 years The estimated useful life is re-evaluated on a regular basis.
