Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 77 Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 4. Credit risk One of the largest risks to Group earnings is our exposure to banking credit risk from Credit risk received significant focus in 2016. lending and other financing activities through our ownership of Nedbank and to a We undertook reviews to ensure that individual lesser but growing extent within OMEM.
businesses credit risk management and governance frameworks are elevated to best Nedbank is a universal bank offering diversified product lines across secured and market practice levels, to ensure an appropriate unsecured lending.
Our exposure through Nedbank is primarily a risk to earnings balance of risk and return.
and remittances, as Nedbanks capital and liquidity requirements are both met from its own available resources.
Nedbank also has a credit exposure in Nigeria through We carry out stress testing at Nedbank and its strategic investment in ETI.
OMEM and, by extension, Group to understand exposure to credit events.
Within OMEM, banking credit risk is increasing due to planned growth as part of the strategy to become an integrated financial services business.
Banking credit risk and Nedbank has defined risk limits and early associated funding risk arises in our unsecured lending businesses.
Investment credit warning thresholds for credit loss ratios.
These risk arises in Old Mutual Specialised Finance and the South African life business, were continuously monitored and remained predominantly through the management of assets backing annuity products.
within their target range throughout 2016.
Nedbank also reviews the quality of credit Credit risk outside and concentration risk between Nedbank and OMEM portfolios to ensure impairment provisions are is relatively limited.
Looking forward As the OMEMs portfolio has grown, the business Our credit risk remains within appetite.
However, the high levels of personal is strengthening its own expertise and governance indebtedness and pressure on consumers in South Africa remain a challenge: the of credit and liquidity risks.
We have also sought businesses continue to monitor this risk closely against their credit risk appetite limits.
external views on areas of greater risk, such As discussed earlier, appetite for the businesses products depends on macroeconomic as our exposures to unsecured lending and factors that are outside our control.
Further development of the credit risk and liquidity risk management In line with Group strategy, credit risk increased in 2016, mainly within OMEMs growing framework will continue.
For more information on credit risk in Nedbank and OMEM see their business review sections.
Currency translation risk, location of capital and sources of remittances Our Group earnings, dividend and surplus capital are reported in sterling but The managed separation seeks to allow most of our earnings and surplus capital are denominated in South African rand.
each business to have the appropriate capital The translation of our rand earnings and balance sheet value reflects exchange management to succeed independently and to rate movements, and the managed separation will address this risk.
be more closely aligned to its natural shareholder base.
Capital requirements will be met in matched Our intention under the managed separation is to continue our phased reduction of our currencies, and interest on debt with matching stake in OMAM.
This will increase our short-term US dollar currency translation risk.
Our capital is held where our risks are located and in the appropriate currency For 2017 dividend paid in currencies other for those risks: so while risk can manifest in a business and reduce that businesss capital than sterling will be converted at the average it would not have an impact on plc.
effective exchange rate after taking into account Due to exchange controls and terms of the demutualisation agreement, capital from hedging activities and timing of remittances for South Africa is not fully freely transferable.
The Groups overall solvency position is perversely impacted by currency movements, We continue to use forward currency contracts as the Solvency II fungibility restrictions mathematically reduce our solvency ratio as to hedge expected rand cashflows needed the rand strengthens.
This will remain under review in light of the uncertainties of the In 2016 the rand strengthened against the pound by 26% over the year, due mainly managed separation.
to sterlings weakness after the Brexit vote.
This followed three years of rand depreciation: 28% in 2015, 4% in 2014 and 27% in 2013.
The size of movements in Regular stress and scenario testing helps us the past few years provides an indication of the rands relatively high volatility.
understand and monitor the resilience of our capital and liquidity over the business plan Looking forward horizon.
Our modelling shows we are sufficiently The impact on the rand of Donald Trumps administration is unclear.
Higher capitalised in line with our philosophy of holding infrastructure spending could boost South Africas mining industry and general capital where the risks lie.
On the other hand, protectionism and hostility towards China could result in emerging market sentiment souring and a risk asset sell-off.
Continuing political uncertainty and the threat of a sovereign downgrade could weaken the rand and increase volatility.
