Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 95 Proposed acquisitions, disposals and other During 2016, the committee agreed that REPORT FROM THE strategic projects being undertaken by the Vassi Naidoo should step down from the NOMINATION AND Group, including the execution of OMWs Board Risk Committee and join the Group GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE business transformation arrangements, Audit Committee GAC, in order to ensure the IT transformation project in OMEMs a better balance of directors on these two South African business, the acquisition committees.
The committee concluded that of Landmark Partners by OMAM and Vassis skills and experience, particularly other potential acquisitions and disposals regarding accounting and auditing across the Group.
matters, would augment the existing I received updates between the scheduled composition of the GAC.
The committee meetings through my regular meetings also approved changes to the Companys with the Group Chief Risk Officer and the senior executive management team in Group Chief Actuary.
The committee also order to position that team better to oversee held a private meeting with the Group and deliver the managed separation.
In view of the managed separation, the Patrick OSullivan In connection with the finalisation of the committee has increased its focus on the Chairman of the Nomination Groups annual results, the committee composition of the boards and of the senior and Governance Committee reviewed and approved the Chief Risk executive management of the Groups four Officers report for the Remuneration businesses, including their development Committee in order to assist that committee and succession plans.
The committee in its deliberations.
agreed a process with the OMW board for an independent chairman to be identified, The committee also undertook a review leading to the selection of Glyn Jones of its performance against its terms of Our role as the Nomination and as its new Chairman.
The committee complied with Governance Committee the committee is also been closely involved as Glyn has the vast majority of the requirements of the to review and make recommendations to commenced the process for strengthening terms of reference and put plans in place the Board on the appointment of directors, the OMW board to position it for its future to ensure that the remaining items could the structure of the Board and the life as a standalone entity.
appropriate governance arrangements and whilst it was a matter of regret for the During 2016, the majority of the between Old Mutual plc as the parent committee that Ralph Mupita resigned as committees meetings and workshops company and its underlying major CEO of OMEM, the committee has agreed involved the participation of board businesses.
We also review development a process with the OMEM board for a new members and executives from the Groups and succession plans for senior executive CEO to be identified.
We held sessions with them management and certain appointments We continue to plan for the anticipated covering a number of the focus areas to the boards and standing committees introduction of Twin Peaks regulation in highlighted above.
Also, either Roger of principal subsidiaries in line with the South Africa and ensuring that Old Mutual Marshall or I personally attended meetings Decision-Making Framework.
We receive Group Holdings OMGH, the South of the risk and audit committees of the regular updates on the composition of African holding company of OMEM and major subsidiaries of the Group.
We have principal subsidiary boards, which include Nedbank, has the necessary facilities and ongoing dialogue with the independent details of the skills represented on such governance arrangements in place to fulfil non-executive directors of those boards and the subsidiary companies regulatory expectations.
Trevor Manuel subsidiaries who chair their committees.
This will enable became chairman of OMGH this year, us to ensure that these bodies are succeeding Paul Hanratty.
The committee Plans for 2017 equipped to deliver the Groups strategy is evaluating proposals for the future In 2017, the committee will be closely of managed separation.
composition of the OMGH board and involved in the review and execution In planning for refreshing and renewing of the boards of other South African of the Companys managed separation the Boards composition, we aim to ensure companies which may need to exercise strategy, as well as preparations for the that changes take place without undue oversight over our businesses in the country.
implementation of SAM and the Twin Peaks disruption, that there is an appropriate regulatory model in South Africa.
The In addition to our work described above, balance of experience and length of committee will also work even more closely we continued during the year to monitor service and that our process for identifying with the risk committees of the Groups talent management and diversity initiatives, and recommending candidates as businesses as they move towards being progress against action items identified by Board directors is formal, rigorous and ready to stand alone, in order to share the the previous years  transparent.
In identifying candidates insight and experience which the committee Board effectiveness review, and the process and making recommendations, we pay has gained through its oversight of the risks for conducting the 2016 review.
appropriate regard to the independence of the Group.
of candidates, their ability to meet the expected time commitment involved and their suitability and willingness to serve on Board committees.
