Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 129 Peer groups for TSR UK Wealth and US Asset SA Life SA Banking Asset Management Management Weight 43.2% 20% 30% 6.8% Peers Sanlam Limited FirstRand Standard Life Affiliated Managers Group, Inc.
Discovery Limited Standard Bank Group Hargreaves Lansdown Eaton Vance Corporation Liberty Holdings Limited Barclays Africa Group Schroders Legg Mason, Inc. MMI Holdings Limited South Africa RMB St. Jamess Place Federated Investors, Inc. Santam Limited Capitec Bank.
Investec Janus Capital Group, Inc. Coronation Fund Managers Limited.
Henderson Group AllianceBernstein Phoenix Group HDG Holding L. P. Jupiter Fund Management Artisan Partners Asset Close Brothers Group Management Inc. Rathbone Brothers Cohen & Steers Inc. Brewin Dolphin.
Virtus Investment Partners, Inc. MSIP performance update The MSIP comprises objectives and targets in three categories: Strategic Objective 40% : material completion of the managed separation by the end of 2018, ensuring that the subsidiaries are prepared to be successful standalone businesses and an assessment of the quality of transactions reflecting time, cost, risk and value of execution.
Update Material Completion: there has been solid progress towards the managed separation of the Group being materially complete by the end of 2018.
Successful Standalone Businesses: the four underlying businesses are being prepared for independence.
In relation to the two unlisted businesses, OMEM and OMW, a review of the core and non-core businesses within their respective portfolios was completed and work to define new target operating models is well advanced.
Additionally, the OMW Board has been strengthened with the appointment of a new Chairman and five new independent directors.
Wind down plc: as part of the managed separation, we are continuing with the phased reduction of the plc Head Office.
Since announcing the managed separation strategy, headcount has reduced by more than 50% and holding company debt has reduced by 385 million.
Transaction Execution: The Companys holding in OM Asset Management was reduced from 66% to 51% in December 2016, realising gross proceeds, less underwriting discount, of $291 million.
The committee will only make an assessment as to the outcome at the end of the managed separation process.
However, we will continue to receive regular updates on the execution of managed separation relative to the criteria established to ensure this assessment is based on a comprehensive assessment of the entire process, including the cost incurred in executing the separation of the businesses.
Financial Performance of the underlying businesses 25% : stretching three-year profit growth and RoE targets for each business profit measure only for OM Asset Management Update This has been a year of significant change for the Group and for its four businesses, against a backdrop of unprecedented political and economic turmoil in some of our key markets.
Stock markets and currencies have been especially volatile in the aftermath of the UKs EU referendum and the US presidential election.
The forces at play in the financial world, with increasing emphasis by regulators and politicians on ring-fencing and protectionism, support our strategy in ways that could not have been foreseen a year ago.
Despite the challenging external environment, our businesses performed resiliently during 2016, with a much improved second half, given the external challenges the businesses had to face in our main markets.
The financial targets established in the MSIP are based on a three-year timeframe as set out on the next page: Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 130 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED MSIP Three-year targets Threshold Target Maximum OMEM Profit AOP Growth CAGR post-tax and non-controlling interests 7.0% 9.5% 12.0% RoE excluding goodwill averaged over three years 20.0% 22.5% 25.0% Nedbank Diluted headline EPS growth CAGR post-tax and pre-minority interests 7.0% 9.5% 12.0% RoE excluding goodwill averaged over three years 15.0% 16.7% 18.4% Old Mutual Wealth Profit AOP Growth CAGR post-tax and non-controlling interests Not disclosed RoE excluding goodwill averaged over three years OM Asset Management ENI Growth CAGR post-tax and pre-MI 5.0% 7.5% 10.0% Relative measure to nominal GDP over the same period.
Our current three-year nominal GDP forecast assumption is 7% threshold Actual performance of a business will be crystallised at the date it separates from the Group.
The outcome relative to the financial targets for that business will be reported in the Directors Remuneration Report for that year.
If the committee considers it necessary to review the financial targets under the discretion afforded in the New Policy, for reasons linked to the macroeconomic environment, the phasing of three-year growth plans relative to the timeframe taken to complete the separation of a business, or the reallocation of the Groups assets, it will do so with transparency and in a way that ensures that the targets are as equally relevant and stretching as originally intended.
Relative TSR 35% : relative TSR to a bespoke index derived from the peer groups of the underlying businesses.
The peer groups are weighted relative to the estimated respective value of each business on 1 1 March 2016.
Update TSR is monitored throughout the period, with the committee receiving regular updates: however, the outcome will only be determined when the managed separation is complete.
In accordance with the principles approved in 2016, the weighting of the peer groups is reviewed each time a transaction is completed.
Accordingly, in December 2016 the weightings were revised to reflect the Companys reduced ownership of OM Asset Management.
The new weightings that apply from that date are: OMEM 43.9% 43.2% : Nedbank 20.3% 20% : OMW 30.5% 30% and OM Asset Management 5.3% 6.8%.
At mid-February 2017, the Companys TSR was below that of the bespoke index threshold performance requires performance to be in line with the bespoke index.
This was primarily due to performance relative to South African peers, which constitute 64% of the index and who largely have operations in South Africa, in a period during which the rand appreciated significantly.
The committee did note, however, that the Company had experienced a period of improved performance relative to the peer groups in the last quarter of the period measured.
Risk Management: a quantitative downward adjustment of up to 5% and qualitative assessment of risk management over the entire period with an uncapped discretionary downward adjustment.
Update In 2016, the Company exceeded its liquidity and solvency ratio targets, meaning that no quantitative downward adjustment would apply for 2016 see 2016 STI outcome for details.
These metrics are measured annually and aggregated over the whole period of managed separation.
The committee receives annual risk reports from the Groups Chief Risk Officer, endorsed by the Board Risk Committee, to ensure it has a full understanding of risk events and managements performance as managed separation progresses.
While some risk adjustment was applied to the outcome of incentives at the end of 2016, these were in relation to legacy issues predating the managed separation strategy, so no events have transpired to date that the committee considers should result in a downward adjustment to the MSIP at completion.
Risk management will continue to be monitored closely by the committee.
