20 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ONE UNIQUE OPERATING MODEL We work to an overarching risk appetite and single Group lending policy spanning all our brands and deliver our services with the aim of providing excellent customer experience.
We put customers needs first.
Simple and easy to do business with.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 21 Integrated multi-brand approach We benefit from our investment in continuously identifying and We capitalise on our cross-company expertise, operating under curing areas that cause customer dissatisfaction.
a common operational framework that supports our key lending brands.
Distribution, sales and risk processes operate under a We will further benchmark our processes against industry best simple, coordinated management structure giving us the ability practice, challenging what we do and eliminating customer to present our multiple lending brands with great efficiency.
We will also develop skills that enable highly efficient service management, matching those to We work to an overarching risk appetite and a single business needs both in India and the UK.
Grouplending policy spanning all our brands and borrowing customers, using our experience in specialist lending to Investment in infrastructure and systems enhancepolicy.
We ensure that risks are modelled and the We aim to deliver efficient, scalable and resilient infrastructure comprehensive risk pricing model reflects latest market to support our business strategy objectives.
We invest in conditions and forecasts.
This modelling ensures all product complementary systems, both proprietary and industry pricing goes through the same rigorous analysis, according standard, to deliver excellent service measured against tocore principles set by our Group Pricing Committee, peersby industry experts, outstanding resilience and strong comprisedofsenior management.
OSB focuses on being a nimble bank with very fewlegacy issues.
We will further develop the coordination and commonality ofapproach for our lending brands and customer and risk We continue to invest in IT security, supported by market supporting operations in 2017 to maximise the expertise and leading data security and resilience experts.
goodwill we have built up in those customer-facing brands.
We will continue to leverage infrastructure investment across Cost-efficient operations the Group in 2017, maximising customer and efficiency benefits.
We aim to ensure our administrative functions, based in We will also ensure infrastructure and systems are regularly ourwholly-owned subsidiary OSBIndia, support the strategic reviewed and tested, maximising their security and resilience intent of delivering excellent customer experience.
We drive using industry experts with particular focus on cyber security.
continuous customer-focused improvement through our flexibleand cost-effective operating platform, putting customerneeds first.
We are an important part of OneSavings Bank and we make sure our people know that.
Here at OSBIndia we concentrate on two things.
The first is providing great customer experience toOSB clients by driving continuous improvement.
Thismeans that the targets we set for our people are based on customer service and we reward them for delivering just that.
It is not about getting customers off the phone quickly, its about ensuring that we help them, efficiently and quickly.
Experts measure what we do, helping us learn how to get it right first time.
The second is supporting OSB by delivering a flexible and cost effective platform to do business.
We spend time in the UK at the Group Head Office and we regularly have visits from managers and directors.
This means we understand what we need to do to help the Group deliver strategic improvements to service, and support the best in class cost:income WE ARE DRIVEN BY ratio by our efficiency.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SANDEEP KAUL MANAGER, CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
