104 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 1.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the accounts for the Group and the Bank are set out below.
a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU : and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale AFS financial assets, derivative contracts and financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no statement of profit or loss is presented for the Bank.
Note on rounding In preparing the 2016 financial statements, the 2015 comparative numbers were restated from the original thousands to millions to one decimal place.
As a result of rounding issues arising from this change, the presentation of some of the comparative numbers may differ slightly to the 2015 financial statements.
b Going concern The Board undertakes regular rigorous assessments of whether the Group is a going concern in the light of current economic conditions and all available information about future risks and uncertainties.
Projections for OneSavings Bank plc OSB have been prepared, covering its future performance, capital and liquidity, for a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements including stress scenarios.
These projections show that the Group has sufficient capital and liquidity to continue to meet its regulatory requirements as set out by the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
The Board has therefore concluded that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for a period in excess of 12 months and as a result it is appropriate to prepare these financial statements on a going concern basis.
c Basis of consolidation The Group accounts include the results of the Bank and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Upon consolidation intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
In the Banks financial statements investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
d Foreign currency translation The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the presentation currency of the Group.
The financial statements of each of the Banks subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currencies using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate prevailing at the period end.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the re-translation and settlement of these items are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary items measured at cost in the foreign currency are translated using the spot FX rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in the foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the spot FX rate at the date of which the fair value is determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations with functional currencies other than Sterling are translated into the presentation currency at the exchange rate on the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at the rates on the dates of transactions.
Exchange differences on foreign operations are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign exchange reserve within equity.
e Segmental reporting IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports and components of the Group which are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to segments and to assess their performance.
For this purpose, the chief operating decision maker of the Group is the Board of Directors.
The Group lends within the UK and the Channel Islands.
The Group segments its lending by product, focusing on the customer need and reason for a loan.
It operates under three segments: Buy-to-Let SME BTL SME, Residential mortgages, and Personal loans.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 105 1.
Accounting policies continued f Interest income and expense Interest income and interest expense for all interest-bearing financial instruments measured at amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR is the rate which exactly discounts the expected future cash flows, over the expected life of the financial instrument, to the net carrying value of the financial asset or liability.
When calculating the EIR, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the instrument for example, prepayment options but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation of the EIR includes all transaction costs and fees paid or received that are an integral part of the interest rate, together with the discounts or premiums arising on the acquisition of loan portfolios.
Transaction costs include incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of a financial instrument.
The Group monitors the actual cash flows for each acquired book and where they diverge significantly from expectation, the future cash flows are reset an AG8 adjustment.
In assessing whether to adjust future cash flows on an acquired portfolio, the Group considers the cash variance on an absolute and percentage basis.
The Group also considers the total variance across all acquired portfolios.
Where cash flows for an acquired portfolio are reset, they are discounted at the EIR to derive a new carrying value, with changes taken to profit or loss as interest income.
The EIR rate is adjusted for AG7 events where there is a change to the reference interest rate LIBOR or Base Rate affecting portfolios with a variable interest rate which will impact future cash flows.
The revised EIR is the rate which exactly discounts the revised cash flows to the net carrying value of the loan portfolio.
Interest income on AFS investments is included in interest receivable and similar income.
Interest on derivatives is included in interest receivable and similar income or interest expense and similar charges following the underlying instrument it is hedging.
g Fees and commissions Fees and commissions which are an integral part of the EIR of a financial instrument are recognised as an adjustment to the EIR and recorded in interest income.
Other fees and commissions are recognised on the accruals basis as services are provided or on the performance of a significant act, net of VAT and similar taxes.
h Taxation Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
It is recognised in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or directly in equity, consistently with the recognition of items it relates to.
Current tax is the expected tax charge or credit on the taxable income or loss in the period and any adjustments in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for accounting purposes and carrying amounts for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available to utilise the asset.
The recognition of deferred tax is mainly dependent on the projections of future taxable profits and future reversals of temporary differences.
The current Boards projections of future taxable income assume that the Group will utilise its deferred tax asset within the foreseeable future.
i Dividends Dividends are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid or, if earlier, approved by shareholders.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, non-restricted balances with central banks and highly liquid financial assets with original maturities of less than three months from the date of acquisition subject to an insignificant risk of changes in their fair value.
k Intangible assets Purchased software and costs directly associated with the development of computer software are capitalised as intangible assets where the software is a unique and identifiable asset controlled by the Group and will generate future economic benefits.
Costs to establish technological feasibility or to maintain existing levels of performance are recognised as an expense.
Software is amortised on a straight-line basis in profit or loss over its estimated useful life, which is generally five years.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
106 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 1.
Accounting policies continued l Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprise freehold land and buildings, major alterations to office premises, computer equipment, motor vehicles and fixtures measured at cost less accumulated depreciation.
These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and if they are considered to be impaired are written down immediately to their recoverable amounts.
Gains and losses on disposals, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds with the carrying amount of the asset, are included in profit or loss.
Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Buildings 50 years Leasehold improvements 10 years Equipment, fixtures and vehicles 5 years Land, deemed to be 25% of purchase price of buildings, is not depreciated.
The cost of repairs and renewals is charged to profit or loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
m Financial instruments The Group initially recognises loans and advances, deposits, debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date on which they are originated.
All other financial instruments are accounted for on trade date which is when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group classifies its financial instruments in accordance with IAS 39 and IAS 32 into the following categories: i Loans and receivables: which are predominantly mortgage loans and advances to customers with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and that the Group does not intend to sell in the near term.
They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method, less impairment losses.
Where exposures are hedged by derivatives, designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the fair value adjustment for the hedged risk to the carrying value of the hedged loans and advances is reported in fair value adjustments for hedged assets.
ii Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: include derivatives with positive fair values.
Financial assets in this category are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value in the statement of financial position, with transaction costs recognised in profit or loss.
All changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
iii Available-for-sale financial assets: comprise securities held for liquidity purposes UK treasury bills and supranational bonds in the nature of investment securities.
These assets are non-derivatives that are designated as AFS.
These are held at fair value with movements being taken to other comprehensive income and accumulate in the AFS reserve within equity, except for impairment losses which are taken to profit or loss.
When the instrument is sold, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss.
iv Financial liabilities: comprise deposits from retail customers and credit institutions, including deposits from the Bank of England under the Term Funding Scheme TFS, issued debt securities and subordinated liabilities used as sources of funding.
They include the Sterling Perpetual Subordinated Bond PSB where the terms allow no discretion over the payment of interest.
These financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value less direct transaction costs, and subsequently held at amortised cost using the EIR method.
The Group has no financial liabilities held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss except for derivatives with negative fair values.
These financial liabilities are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value, with changes taken to profit or loss.
v Classification as liability or equity: financial instruments that include no contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset on potentially unfavourable conditions are classified as equity.
Equity financial instruments comprise own shares and a PSB which was issued with terms that include discretion over the payment of interest.
Accordingly, the coupon paid on the bond and related tax effects are recognised directly in retained earnings when paid.
vi Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities: Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to receive cash flows have expired and where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Financial liabilities are derecognised only when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 107 1.
Accounting policies continued vii Sale and repurchase agreements: Financial assets sold subject to repurchase agreements repo are retained in the financial statements if they fail fide-recognition criteria of IAS 39 described in paragraph vi above.
The financial assets that are retained in the financial statements are reflected as loans or investment securities and the counterparty liability is included in amounts owed to depositors, credit institutions or other customers.
Financial assets purchased under agreements to resell at a pre-determined price where the transaction is financing in nature reverse repo are accounted for as loans and receivables.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the lives of agreements using the EIR method.
viii Funding for Lending Scheme FLS and Term Funding Scheme TFS : Loans and advances over which the Group transfers its rights to the collateral thereon to the Bank of England under the FLS and TFS are not derecognised from the statement of financial position, as the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including all cash flows arising from the loans and advances and exposure to credit risk.
The treasury bills that the Group borrows against the transferred assets under the FLS are not recognised in the statement of financial position.
Cash received under the TFS is recorded in deposits from credit institutions.
Interest is accrued over the life of the agreements on an EIR basis.
n Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments interest and basis rate swaps for the purpose of reducing fair value interest rate risk to hedge its exposure to the interest rate risk arising from financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at their fair value with changes in their fair value going through profit or loss.
Fair values are calculated by discounting cash flows at the prevailing interest rates.
All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Derivatives covered by master netting agreements are settled and therefore recognised on a net basis.
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group adopts hedge accounting where the criteria specified in IAS 39 EU endorsed are met.
A hedged item is defined as a recognised asset or liability which exposes the entity to risk of changes in fair value or future cash flows, and is designated as being hedged.
The Group uses fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk IAS39 AG 114.
Portfolio hedge accounting allows for hedge effectiveness testing and accounting over an entire portfolio of derivatives.
Where there is an effective hedge relationship for fair value hedges, the Group recognises the change in fair value of each hedged item in the statement of profit or loss account with the cumulative movement in their value being shown separately on the statement of financial position as Fair value adjustments on hedged assets and liabilities.
The fair value changes of both the derivative and the hedge substantially offset each other to reduce profit volatility.
To qualify for hedge accounting at inception, the hedge relationship is clearly documented and the derivative must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting the hedged risk.
In addition, effectiveness must be tested throughout the life of the hedge relationship.
The Group discontinues hedge accounting when testing demonstrates that a derivative is not or has ceased to be highly effective as a hedge, the derivative ceases through expiry, when the derivative is cancelled or the underlying hedged item matures, is sold or is repaid.
If a derivative is cancelled it is derecognised from the balance sheet.
If a derivative no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or is cancelled whilst still effective, the fair value adjustment relating to the hedged assets or liabilities within the hedge relationship prior to the derivative becoming ineffective or being cancelled remains on the balance sheet and is amortised over the remaining life of the hedged assets or liabilities.
The rate of amortisation over the remaining life is in-line with the income or cost generated from the hedged assets or liabilities.
o Impairment of financial assets The Group regularly assesses its financial assets valued at amortised cost for impairment.
During the reporting period, the main category within the scope was loans and advances to customers.
The Group individually assesses for impairment loans over 0.5m which are more than three months in arrears, where LPA receivers are appointed, the property is taken in possession or there are any other events that suggest a high probability of credit loss.
Loans are considered at a connection level, i. e. including all loans belonging to and connected to the customer.
The Group estimates cash flows from these loans, including expected interest and principal payments, rental or sale proceeds, selling costs, etc.
The Group obtains up-to-date independent valuation for properties put up for sale.
The Group ensures that security valuations are reviewed on an ongoing basis for appropriateness, with ongoing annual indexing of commercial properties, with residential properties indexed against monthly HPI data.
Where the Group identifies that a published index is not representative, a formal review is carried out by the Groups real estate function to assess valuations appropriately.
The Groups real estate function ensures that newly underwritten lending cases are written to appropriate valuations, with assessment being carried out by appointed, qualified chartered surveyors, accredited by the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS.
The Group has ensured that the real estate function is placed within the Groups assurance team and is therefore independent from all credit making decisions.
108 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 1.
Accounting policies continued If the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate is less than the carrying value of the loan, a specific provision is recognised for the difference.
Such loans are classified as impaired.
If the present value of the estimated future cash flows exceeds the carrying value no specific provision is recognised.
All loans which do not have a specific provision are subsequently assessed for impairment collectively with each loan being assigned a one-year probability of default PD and a loss given default LGD generally consistent with the requirements of the internal ratings based IRB approach, leading to the expected loss EL.
The provision is the sum of all ELs.
The calculation uses indexed valuations from ONS statistics applied at a postcode level, as it is usually impossible to request market property valuation for loans not in default.
From 2016, all provisions on loans greater than 3 months in arrears are treated as a specific provision as they are considered to be impaired.
Loans less than 3 months in arrears are assigned a collective provision.
Different PDs are used for BTL SME mortgages, Residential mortgages and unsecured loans.
Interest-only mortgages which are predominantly within the BTL segment, are not differentiated further from capital repayment mortgages.
As PDs are generated from historic portfolio performance using a mix of interest-only and repayment loans, they capture the impact of interest-only mortgages as long as the mix remains similar.
The risk of interest-only customers not repaying at maturity is currently not calculated.
The Group has been contacting customers with upcoming interest-only loan maturities and tracking responses and outcomes through specific campaigns since 2014.
Second charge mortgages are considered separately to first charge residential mortgages in that separate PDs are calculated and used in loss calculations based on previous experience of losses on second charge loans.
The LGD calculation on second charge mortgages considers the fact that the holder of the first charge on collateral has first claim on the proceeds of a sale.
Incurred but not reported losses IBNR, where a loss trigger has occurred but the borrower has not yet missed a payment, are captured through the Groups collective provisioning process.
PD rates are calculated for loans that are not in arrears based on historic loss data and a provision value is calculated for these accounts.
The calculation of PD rates incorporate assumptions for emergence periods EP, cure rates and forbearance.
The Group conducts detailed analysis to calculate the time taken for a customer to fall into arrears post a loss event occurring i. e. loss of employment, this EP is then considered within a wider observation period utilised to model the time taken post loss event for the customer to reach a default state.
Within the year the Group implemented an elongated EP within the PD calculations.
Loans and the related provision are written off when the underlying security is sold or an unsecured loan customer has not paid for 12 months.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are taken through profit or loss.
The overriding principle when dealing with a borrower in arrears is that the Group follows prescribed policies and procedures that allow for flexibility and an individual approach, tailored to the circumstances of the particular borrower.
The Group offers assistance and a range of tools to act in the best long-term interests of borrowers who are experiencing financial stress.
These are designed to allow customer loans to be brought back into a sustainable position.
Cases are managed on an individual basis, with the circumstances of each customer considered separately and the action taken judged as being affordable and sustainable for the customer.
The Group will consider all relevant forbearance options when attempting to reach an affordable and sustainable plan with the borrower.
Forbearance is the restructuring of loans to conditions and by means not stipulated under the original contract when the borrower is in financial difficulty.
The specific tools available to assist customers vary by product and the customers status.
The various treatments considered for customers are as follows: Temporary switch to interest-only: a temporary account change to assist customers through periods of financial difficulty where arrears do not accrue at the original contractual payment.
Any arrears existing at the commencement of the arrangement are retained.
Interest rate reduction: the Group may in certain circumstances, where the borrower meets the required eligibility criteria, transfer the mortgages to a lower contractual rate.
Where this is a formal contractual change the borrower will be requested to obtain independent financial advice as part of the process.
Loan term extension: a permanent account change for customers in financial distress where the overall term of the mortgage is extended, resulting in a lower contractual monthly payment.
Payment holiday: a temporary account change to assist customers through periods of financial difficulty where arrears accrue at the original contractual payment.
Voluntary assisted sale: a period of time is given to allow borrowers to sell the property and arrears accrue based on the contractual payment.
Reduced monthly payments: a temporary arrangement for customers in financial distress.
For example, a short-term arrangement to pay less than the contractual payment.
Arrears continue to accrue based on the contractual payment.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 109 1.
Accounting policies continued Capitalisation of interest: arrears are added to the loan balance and are repaid over the remaining term of the facility or at maturity for interest only products.
A new payment is calculated which will be higher than the previous payment.
Full or partial debt forgiveness: where considered appropriate the Group will consider writing off part of the debt.
This may occur where a borrower has an agreed sale and there will be a shortfall in the amount required to redeem the Groups charge, in which case the repayment of the shortfall may be agreed over a period of time subject to an affordability assessment or where possession has been taken by the Group, and on subsequent sale where there has been a shortfall loss.
The Group classifies a loan as forborne at the point a concession is granted based on the deteriorated financial status of the borrower.
Accounts are classified as forborne only for the period of time which the loan is known to be, or may still be, in financial difficulty.
When the borrower is no longer experiencing financial difficulties the loan will revert to standard terms.
If the forbearance eliminates the arrears, the loan is no longer considered past due.
None of the currently used forbearance measures modify the overall cash flows to an extent that requires derecognition of the existing and recognition of a new loan under IAS 39.
Loans that have ever had forbearance applied are assigned a higher probability of default in the collective provision calculation.
Forborne accounts are not treated differently in relation to impairments in any other way.
p Debit and credit valuation adjustments The debit and credit valuation adjustments DVA and CVA are included in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
The DVA is based on the expected loss a counterparty faces due to the risk of the Groups default.
The CVA reflects the Groups risk of the counterpartys default.
The methodology is based on a standard calculation, taking into account: the one-year probability of default, updated on a regular basis the expected exposure at default the expected loss given default and the average maturity of the swaps.
q Provisions and contingent liabilities A provision is recognised when there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the obligation will be settled and the amount can be estimated reliably.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, or present obligations arising from past events which are either not probable or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but disclosed unless their probability is remote.
r Employee benefits defined contribution scheme Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension arrangements are recognised as an expense in profit or loss as incurred.
s Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments, options and awards granted to employees over the Banks shares under the Groups share-based incentive schemes are measured at fair value at grant and are charged on a straight-line basis to the profit or loss account with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that do meet the related conditions at the vesting date.
The amount recognised as an expense for awards subject to market conditions is based on the proportion that is expected to meet the condition as assessed at the grant date.
No adjustment is made for the actual proportion that meets the market condition at vesting.
Share-based payments that vest on grant are immediately expensed in full with a corresponding increase in equity.
The grant date fair value of a nil price option over the Banks shares which vests at grant or which carries the right to dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting period IPO share awards is the share price at the grant date.
The grant date fair value of awards of the Banks shares that do not carry automatic rights to dividends or dividend equivalents the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP is based on the Banks share price at the grant date adjusted for the impact of the expected dividend yield.
The fair value at grant date of awards made under the Share Save Schemes is determined using a Black-Scholes Option model.
The grant date fair value of awards that are subject to non-market conditions and which do not carry automatic rights to dividends or dividend equivalents the earnings per share EPS element of the Performance Share Plan PSP is based on the share price at the grant date adjusted for the impact of the expected dividend yield.
An assessment is made at each reporting date on the proportion of the awards expected to meet the related non-market vesting conditions.
The fair value of an award that is subject to market conditions the relative share price element of the PSP is determined at grant date using a Monte Carlo model.
110 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 1.
Accounting policies continued Where the allowable cost of share-based awards for tax purposes is greater than the cost determined in accordance with IFRS 2, the tax effect of the excess is taken to the share-based payment reserve within equity.
The tax effect is reclassified to retained earnings upon vesting.
Employers national insurance is charged to the profit or loss account at the share price at the reporting date on the same vesting schedule as the underlying awards.
t Exceptional items Exceptional items are material income or expense items which are non-recurring in nature.
Exceptional items are reported separately in the statement of profit or loss to highlight the underlying performance of the Group and make it more relevant for comparison with other periods.
In 2016 the Groups exceptional items comprise the gain on disposal of the entire economic interest in Rochester Financing No.
1 plc Rochester 1 securitisation vehicle and a loss in respect of accelerated amortisation of fair value adjustments on hedged assets relating to prior years.
Further details can be found in note 9.
In 2015 the Groups exceptional items comprised of IPO related share awards.
Some of the share awards vested immediately on admission while others vest over various periods of up to four years.
IPO share awards which vested on IPO and related national insurance contributions were expensed immediately.
The awards with vesting periods along with the accruing national insurance are expensed on an on-going basis in profit or loss.
With the decrease in this expense, the separate line disclosure is no longer warranted with the expense included within staff costs during 2016.
Further detail on accounting for share-based payments is disclosed in note s above.
u Securitisation The Group assesses whether it controls special purpose entities SPE and the requirement to consolidate them under the criteria of IFRS 10.
The criteria include the power to direct relevant activities, exposure or rights to variable returns and the ability to use its power to affect the amount of these returns.
At the 2016 reporting date, the Group had no economic interest in SPEs.
The Groups entire economic interest in Rochester 1 was disposed of during the year.
At the 2015 reporting date, the Group had one securitisation scheme administered through the Rochester 1 SPE.
The Group had the power to appoint directors and control daily operations of Rochester 1 through securitisation documents.
It owned the certificates which gave rights to the residual interest income remaining after servicing the external debt.
It had the ability to affect the amount of outgoing payments if required.
On this basis, Rochester 1 was considered a wholly owned subsidiary and consolidated in the Groups 2015 operations.
The Bank had retained the risks and rewards of ownership in respect of the loans transferred to Rochester 1, therefore, they fail derecognition criteria and remained in its 2015 assets.
Whilst the securitisation entity had been consolidated as a 100% subsidiary, the mortgage loans included within the securitisation structure were ring-fenced, with the cash flows being used to repay its liabilities in line with the priority of payments set out in the securitisation prospectus.
The senior debt was held externally while junior debt and residual certificates were retained by the Bank.
The Group statement of financial position shows externally held notes as debt securities in issue.
v Judgements in applying accounting policies and critical accounting estimates In preparing these financial statements, the Group has made judgements, estimates and assumptions which affect the reported amounts within the current and next financial year.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and judgements are regularly reviewed based on past experience, expectations of future events and other factors.
The key areas where estimates and judgements are made are as follows: i Loan book impairments: This section provides details of the critical elements of judgement which underpin loan impairment calculations.
Less significant judgements are not disclosed.
Individual impairment Assessments for individually significant loans involve significant judgement to be made by management in relation to estimating future cash flows, including the cost of obtaining and selling collateral, the likely sale proceeds and any rental income prior to sale.
The most significant area of judgement is the likely sale proceeds.
As at 31 December 2016, a 10% fall in house prices would result in an incremental 4.7m 2015: 3.2m of provisions being required.
All assets which do not have a specific provision are assessed on a collective basis.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 111 1.
Accounting policies continued Collective impairment Collective provision assessments are also subject to estimation uncertainty, underpinned by a number of judgements and estimates being made by management which are utilised within impairment calculations.
Key areas of judgement utilised within collective provisioning calculations include probability of default PD, the loss given default LGD and the emergence period EP.
Provisions on loans 3 months plus in arrears are treated as specific provisions.
Provisions on loans less than 3 months in arrears are treated as collective provisions.
Probability of default To compute PD rates the Group analyses how accounts transition from up to date and varying arrears severity positions to the default state which is reached once an account is greater than six months in arrears.
Embedded within the PD calculation is a computed cure rate, which allows the Group to model the probability of an account curing from each state.
A 10% relative worsening of the PD rate would increase total provisions by 0.3m as at 31 December 2016 2015: 0.1m.
The increase year on year is primarily driven by managements implementation of a stricter default and cure rate definition during 2016 as part of a wider methodology and judgement and estimate review.
Loss given default The LGD model simulates the likely loss once a default event has occurred.
The key components of the LGD calculation relate to the valuation of the underlying collateral, forced sale discount rates post repossession and the costs to sell variable and fixed.
Therefore the LGD is sensitive to the application of the house price index HPI.
As at 31 December 2016 a 10% fall in house prices would result in an incremental 4.7m 2015: 3.2m of provision being required.
The increase year on year is primarily driven by the impact of updated and more granular forced sale discount rates and cost to sell parameters being implemented during 2016.
Emergence period The current collective provision methodology does not utilise an explicit EP within incurred but not reported IBNR calculations, however the observation period which is utilised within PD calculations includes an implied EP.
Within the year the Group conducted a detailed analysis to understand the time it takes for a loss event e. g. becoming unemployed to be identified i. e. missed payment using external and internal data sources.
The outcome of this review resulted in the observation period used within PD calculations elongating, due to a lengthening of the implied EP.
ii Loan book acquisition accounting and income recognition: Acquired loan books are initially recognised at fair value.
Significant judgement is exercised in calculating their EIR using cash flow models which include assumptions on the likely macroeconomic environment, including HPI, unemployment levels and interest rates, as well as loan level and portfolio attributes and history used to derive prepayment rates, the probability and timing of defaults and the amount of incurred losses.
The EIRs on loan books purchased at significant discounts or premiums are particularly sensitive to the prepayment CPR and default CDR rates derived, as the purchase discount or premium is recognised over the expected life of the loan book through the EIR.
New defaults are modelled at zero loss as losses will be recognised in profit or loss as impairment losses and therefore have the same impact on the EIR as prepayments.
Different assumptions to derive the CPR and CDR in the cash flow models at acquisition will impact the EIR rates.
A 10% increase decrease in the EIR% for each of the Banks acquired mortgage books would increase decrease interest income by c. 4.8m in 2016.
Incurred losses at acquisition are calculated using the Groups collective provision model see i Loan book impairments above for further details.
The EIR calculated at acquisition is not changed for subsequent variances in actual to expected cash flows.
The Group recognised 1.4m in 2016 as a result of resetting cash flows on acquired mortgage books 2015: 2.0m.
iii Effective interest rate: A number of assumptions are made when calculating the EIR for newly originated loan assets.
These include their expected lives, likely redemption profiles and the anticipated level of any early redemption charges.
Certain mortgage products offered by the Group include significant directly attributable net fee income, in particular BTL, and or revert to the standard variable rate SVR after an initial discounted or fixed period.
Judgement is used in assessing the expected rate of prepayment during the discounted or fixed period of these mortgages and the expected life of those that prepay.
The Group uses historical experience in its assessment.
Judgement is also used in assessing whether and for how long mortgages that reaches the end of the product term stay on SVR.
The most significant area of judgement is the period spent on SVR.
112 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 1.
Accounting policies continued A 10% increase decrease in the rate of prepayments during the product term for 2016 new originations would increase decrease interest income for 2016 by c. 0.1m.
A 3 month shorter longer life for those prepaying mortgages would increase decrease interest income in 2016 by c. 0.4m 0.3m.
The Group prudently assumes no period on SVR before the borrower refinances on to a new product or redeems, pending the result of the new broker led retention programme launched in the second half of 2016.
The impact of a 6 month longer expected life on 2016 new origination, that is expected to reach the end of the discounted or fixed period, would be to recognise an additional 1.4m 2015: 1.1m of interest income, as the impact of spreading fee income over a longer period is more than offset by the impact of a higher revert rate for the additional period.
w Adoption of new standards The Group continuously monitors new standards and amendments, with no changes within the reporting period.
Included below are standards and amendments which are being considered for future reporting periods which have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
IFRS 16 is yet to be endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective from 1 January 2018, replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement that includes requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
The Group has made good progress in its IFRS 9 programme and moved into the parallel testing phase at the start of 2017 on schedule.
Business as usual BAU processes are being implemented with a complete end-to-end control framework expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2017.
The IFRS 9 steering committee was set up in September 2015 to manage the project and includes the CFO, CRO and other senior managers and members from finance, credit, risk, management information and regulatory reporting to ensure the programme is completed to a high standard and on time.
IFRS 9 introduces a different classification of financial assets and liabilities based on the Groups business model and the cash flow characteristics of the instruments.
These factors determine whether financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI or fair value through profit or loss FVPL.
The Group has made significant progress with its assessments of solely payment of principal & interest SPPI compliance, that reviews the cash flow characteristics of financial assets to ensure they can continue to be classified within an amortised cost model under IFRS 9.
Based on its assessments to date, the Group does not expect that the overall impact of any change in its classification of assets and liabilities will be significant.
IFRS 9 will replace the existing incurred loss impairment approach with an expected credit loss approach.
Under this approach at initial recognition of a loan, an allowance is required for expected credit losses ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months.
In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, an allowance is required for ECL resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial instrument.
The assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed for each reporting period by considering the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument, rather than by considering an increase in ECL.
The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL must be unbiased and probabilityweighted, and should incorporate all available information which is relevant to the assessment including information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of economic conditions at the reporting date.
The Group has developed a series of IFRS 9 models to address the different requirements of its loan portfolios that include both organic and acquired loan books.
The models developed consider for each loan the probability of a default PD, its exposure at default EAD and the possible loss given default LGD that could arise.
The assessment and development of the key variables have been through an extensive book by book review process based on available information and externally sourced data as required.
The models have been built on the Groups definition of default, definition of credit impairment that also considers forbearance, and definition of significant risk to facilitate the development of the necessary transfer criteria to assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk to determine the level of ECLs required for each loan.
The models are currently being reviewed, refined and recalibrated during the parallel run which compares IAS 39 to IFRS 9 impairments.
Whilst the macro economic variables the Group will use in its modelling have been completed subject to final approval, the various scenarios for consideration within the models are still being finalised.
The IFRS 9 models have been completed to a high standard in conjunction with the Groups first generation IRB models that have also been completed and are currently being reviewed.
All models will undergo an external independent review process in the first quarter of 2017 that will be completed in the second quarter of 2017.
The adoption of IFRS 9 is likely to increase the Groups loan loss provision balance and expense, although the financial impact will be spread over the year of adoption and restated opening reserves.
At this stage it is not possible to assess the impact that the introduction of IFRS 9 will have on regulatory capital until a final determination is made on the transitional arrangements from IAS 39 to IFRS 9.
However based on information available to date, we do not expect there will be a significant impact.
The Group is continuing to monitor this situation through its regulatory capital work stream that reports into the IFRS 9 steering committee as part of this project.
With the development of the Groups first generation IRB models it should also be in a position to understand the impact of IFRS 9 on regulatory capital under an IRB approach once the transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 have been confirmed.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 113 1.
Accounting policies continued IFRS 9 is expected to have a significant impact on operations particularly in the risk and finance functions of the Group.
The appropriate governance framework is being set up to review ECLs, models used and judgements made.
The Group has engaged external consultants to work alongside existing teams in the completion of its IFRS 9 models, model monitoring, controls and procedures and to assist with initial parallel running, refining and recalibrating of IFRS 9 models during 2017, following the delivery of initial models in late 2016.
Hedge accounting will become more closely aligned with risk management practices under IFRS 9.
The Group has elected to continue with IAS 39 hedging that is an option under IFRS 9 until a separate IASB project to address macro hedge accounting strategies is finalised and can be assessed.
Whilst at this stage the Group expects to continue with IAS 39 hedge accounting, it will implement the revised hedge accounting disclosures required by the related amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The Group continues to make solid progress in its IFRS 9 implementation programme and is well placed to implement the requirements for 2018.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, effective from 1 January 2018, replaces IAS 11 Construction contracts, IAS18 Revenue and several related interpretations.
It introduces a single framework for revenue recognition based on newconcepts and principles.
The new standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 16 Leases, effective from 1 January 2019, replaces IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease and two related SIC interpretations.
The new standard requires the lessees to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases over 12 months long.
Lessor accounting has largely remained unchanged.
Adoption of IFRS 16 in respect of rented properties is not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements.
Interest receivable and similar income Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m On BTL SME mortgages 205.0 149.7 On Residential mortgages 107.1 115.9 On Personal loans 3.8 7.5 On investment securities 1.2 1.6 On other liquid assets 1.6 2.8 Net expense on derivative financial instruments 9.2 9.3 309.5 268.2 Included within interest receivable is 1.3m 2015: 2.4m in respect of interest accrued on accounts with an individually assessed specific provision.
Interest payable and similar charges Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m On retail deposits 101.8 94.8 On Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 0.9 1.0 On subordinated liabilities 1.2 1.3 On wholesale borrowings 3.2 5.7 Net income on derivative financial instruments 4.2 4.4 102.9 98.4 114 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 4.
Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Fair value changes in hedged assets 3.2 7.4 Hedging of assets 3.0 7.3 Fair value changes in hedged liabilities 0.5 1.7 Hedging of liabilities 0.3 1.6 1 Ineffective portion of hedges Amortisation of fair value adjustments on hedged assets 4.9 3.2 Net gains losses on unmatched swaps 0.1 0.1 Debit and credit valuation adjustment 0.1 0.1 4.9 3.2 1.
Ineffective portion of hedges was less than 0.1m in 2016 and 2015.
Amortisation of fair value adjustments on hedged assets relates to hedged assets and liabilities where the hedges were terminated before maturity and were effective at the point of termination.
The DVA adjustment is calculated on the Groups derivative liabilities and represents exposure of their holders to the risk of the Groups default.
Gain on sales of financial instruments During the year the Group sold 10.9m of non-performing loans from its personal loan portfolio.
These loans had a carrying value of 1.3m after provisions of 5.6m and prior year write-offs of 4.0m.
The loans were sold for cash proceeds of 1.9m, creating a 0.6m gain on sale.
The Bank routinely buys and sells liquidity assets in order to confirm the ease with which cash can be realised and the robustness of the valuations assigned to such assets.
During the year, transactions in liquid assets resulted in a net loss of nil 2015: 0.6m.
Administrative expenses Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m 1 Staff costs 29.5 21.6 Facilities costs 2.4 2.2 Marketing costs 2.2 1.8 Support costs 6.2 5.2 Professional fees 5.6 4.6 2 Other costs 5.2 4.0 51.1 39.4 1.
Staff costs include 0.4m relating to IPO share awards reported in prior periods within exceptional items 2.
Other costs mainly consist of irrecoverable VAT expense Strategic report Financial statements Governance 115 6.
Administrative expenses continued Included in professional fees are amounts paid to the auditors of the Group, further analysed below: Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 000 000 Audit of the Bank and Group accounts 414 291 Audit of the Groups subsidiary undertakings pursuant to legislation 121 99 Audit related assurance services 96 71 Tax compliance and advice 70 59 Regulatory advice and support 36 8 All other non-audit services 48 33 785 561 Other non-audit services in 2016 comprises agreed upon procedures in respect of a new securitisation vehicle and assurance work in relation to net lending for the FLS in 2016.
Staff numbers and costs Staff costs comprise the following categories: Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Salaries, incentive pay and other benefits 24.4 18.9 Share-based payments 1.5 0.5 Social security costs 2.5 1.1 Other pension costs 1.1 1.1 29.5 21.6 The average number of persons employed by the Group including executive Directors during the period was 674 2015: 544, analysed below: Group Group 2016 2015 Operations 315 259 Administrative 359 285 674 544 7.
Directors emoluments and transactions 2016 2015 000 000 1 Directors emoluments 1,869 1,700 Payments in respect of personal pension plans 97 89 1,966 1,789 1.
Directors emoluments comprises salary costs, NED fees and other short-term incentive benefits as disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration In addition to the total Directors emoluments above, the Executive Directors were granted a deferred bonus of 335k 2015: 321k in the form of shares deferred for three years under the DSBP.
The DSBP does not have any further performance conditions attached, however it is subject to clawback and is forfeited if the Executive Director leaves prior to vesting unless a good leaver reason applies such as redundancy, retirement or ill health.
The Executive Directors received a further share award under the PSP with a grant date face value of 700k 2015: 640k using a share price of 2.53 2015: 2.19 the average mid-market quotation for the preceding 5 days before grant.
These shares vest in three years subject to performance conditions discussed in note 8 and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
There was no compensation for loss of office during either 2016 or 2015.
There were no outstanding loans granted in the ordinary course of business to Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2016 and 2015.
The Annual Report on Remuneration and note 8 provide further details on Directors emoluments.
116 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 8.
Share-based payments The Group operates the following share-based schemes: IPO Share Awards Certain Directors, senior managers and other employees of the Bank received one-off share awards in the form of nil price options over shares in the Bank on its admission to the London Stock Exchange in June 2014.
A proportion of these awards vested on admission with the remainder vesting over either a 12, 24 or 48 month period.
The cost of IPO Share Awards based on their fair value at grant date of 170 pence per share the IPO offer price is recognised over the respective vesting period adjusted for expected attrition with awards that vested on admission being immediately expensed in full.
The expense is reported within administrative expenses 2015: exceptional items in the statement of profit or loss and is offset fully by an additional capital contribution as the awards were granted by OSB Holdco Limited, the Banks major shareholder.
OSB Sharesave Scheme The Save As You Earn SAYE or Sharesave Schemes are open to all UK-based employees and allow them to save a fixed amount of between 5 and 500 per month over either three or five years in order to use these savings at the end of the qualifying period to buy the Banks shares at a fixed price established when the schemes were announced.
The Group has offered 3 and 5 year sharesave schemes annually since 2014, with the exercise price set at a 20% discount on the share price on the scheme dates.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan The DSBP applies to Executive Directors and certain senior managers and requires 50% of their performance bonuses to be deferred in shares for 3 years.
There are no further performance conditions attached, but the share awards are subject to clawback provisions.
The DSBP is a share-based award and as such is expensed over its vesting period.
The first DSBP relating to 2014 bonuses was granted in March 2015.
Performance Share Plan Executive Directors and certain senior managers are also eligible for a PSP based on performance conditions linked to earnings per share and total shareholder return over a 3 year vesting period.
The first award was issued in March 2015.
The performance conditions applying to 2016 and 2015 awards are based on a combination of EPS and total shareholder return TSR equally weighted and assessed independently.
For the EPS element, growth targets are linked to the Companys three year growth plan, measuring growth from the base figure of 2014.
For the TSR element, OSB shares relative performance is measured against the FTSE All Share index excluding investment trusts.
The share-based expense for the year includes a charge in respect of the remaining IPO awards with future vesting provisions, Sharesave schemes, the DSBP and PSP.
All charges are included in employee expenses within note 6 Administrative expenses during 2016, with IPO awards being included within exceptional items during 2015.
The share-based payment expense during the year comprised of the following: Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Included in exceptional IPO expenses: IPO share award expensed in the year 1.3 1.3 Included in administrative expenses: IPO share award expensed in the year 0.4 Sharesave 0.1 Deferred Share Bonus Plan 0.5 0.2 Performance Share Plan 0.5 0.3 1.5 0.5 1.5 1.8 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 117 8.
Share-based payments continued Movements in the number of share awards and their weighted average exercise prices are presented below: 2016 IPO share Deferred Share Performance awards Sharesave Bonus plan Share Plan Weighted average exercise Number Number price, Number Number At 1 January 2016 1,237,844 761,927 1.66 301,575 579,157 Granted 149,675 2.40 456,806 519,757 Exercised 465,855 2,126 1.34 Forfeited 119,791 91,223 1.83 17,923 At 31 December 2016 652,198 818,253 1.78 758,381 1,080,991 Exercisable at At 31 December 2016 2015 IPO share Deferred Share Performance awards Sharesave Bonus plan Share Plan Weighted average exercise Number Number price, Number Number At 1 January 2015 2,673,508 527,821 1.34 Granted 282,889 2.27 322,933 612,262 Exercised 1,114,635 Forfeited 321,029 48,783 1.70 21,358 33,105 At 31 December 2015 1,237,844 761,927 1.66 301,575 579,157 Exercisable at At 31 December 2015 119,791 15,342 1.62 For the share-based awards granted during the year, the weighted average grant date fair value was 251 pence 2015: 152 pence.
The weighted average market price at exercise for IPO share awards exercised in the year was 307 pence 2015: 298 pence.
The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards are as follows: 2016 2015 Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual contractual Exercise price Number life Number life IPO share awards Nil 652,198 1.4 1,237,844 2.5 Sharesave 134240 pence 818,253 1.6 761,927 3.4 Deferred Share Bonus Plan Nil 758,381 1.8 301,575 2.2 Performance Share Plan Nil 1,080,991 1.7 579,157 2.2 3,309,823 1.6 2,880,503 2.6 118 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 8.
Share-based payments continued The valuation of share awards is based on the following assumptions: IPO Share Awards The grant date fair value of the IPO share awards was the issue price of 1.70 as they are in the form of nil price options which carry rights to dividends during the vesting period.
The charge in respect of awards with future vesting provisions assumed a weighted average attrition of nil 2015: nil per annum.
This is lower than the overall expected staff attrition rate as nil attrition was assumed for certain Senior Managers who received larger awards.
Sharesave schemes The grant date fair values of awards under the sharesave schemes were determined using a Black-Scholes model.
This determined the fair value of options over 1 ordinary share in the 2016 3 and 5 year sharesave schemes as 18 pence and 20 pence respectively 2015: 17 pence and 19 pence, using the following assumptions: Inputs to valuation model Sharesave 2016 2015 2014 Contractual life, years 3 5 years 3 5 years 3 5 years Share price at issue, 3.00 2.84 1.68 Exercise price, 2.40 2.27 1.34 1 Expected volatility 18.7% 20.0% 20.0% Attrition rate 12.0% 9.6% 10.5% Dividend yield 4.6% 3.6% 3.0% 1.
The volatility was based on a benchmark of the FTSE 350 diversified financials as insufficient history was available for the Banks shares Deferred Share Bonus Plan The grant date fair value of awards under the DSBP of 253 2015: 219 pence per share is based on the mid-market share price at the grant date of 309 2015: 251 pence per share, adjusted for the impact of dividends, as the options dont carry automatic rights to dividends.
A dividend yield of 4.6% 2015: 3.7% was used based on available analyst consensus.
The expense for 2016 assumes an attrition rate of 12.0% 2015: 9.1%.
Performance Share Plan The grant date fair value of awards under the PSP of 253 2015: 219 pence per share is based on the mid-market share price at the grant date of 309 2015: 251 pence per share, adjusted for the impact of dividends, as the options dont carry automatic rights to dividends.
A dividend yield of 4.6% 2015: 3.7% was assumed based on available analyst consensus.
A vesting rate is incorporated into the EPS element of the PSP, based on the expectation that the required target growth will be achieved over the vesting period.
A vesting rate is also calculated for TSR element of the PSP, based on a Monte Carlo model using historical share price performance data for the target benchmark FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts and the FTSE 350 Diversified Financials as a proxy for the Companys shares as insufficient history was available.
Exceptional items Exceptional items to December 2016 consist of the gain on disposal of the Groups entire economic interest in Rochester 1 securitisation vehicle and an exceptional loss of 9.8m in respect of accelerated amortisation of fair value adjustments on hedged assets relating to legacy back-book long-dated interest rate swap cancellations.
The Rochester 1 sale resulted in derecognition of securitised mortgage assets from the Groups balance sheet and the deconsolidation of Rochester 1.
This removed a total of 239.8m of securitised mortgage assets and cash reserves in the vehicle and 171.6m of debt securities in issue from the Groups balance sheet.
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge fixed rate mortgages and adopts fair value hedge accounting where the criteria specified in IAS39 EU endorsed are met.
Under hedge accounting, the change in the fair value of hedged mortgages for interest rate risk is recognised in profit or loss, as an offset to fair value movements on the swaps, with the cumulative movement reflected as fair value adjustments on hedged assets in the statement of financial position.
A number of long-dated legacy swaps were cancelled in 2012 and 2013 whilst still effective.
Following the cancellations, the fair value adjustment on the legacy hedged long-term fixed rate mortgages c. 25 years at origination remained in the statement of financial position to be amortised over their remaining lives.
Both the cancelled swaps and hedged mortgages were inherited from the Kent Reliance Building Society.
During 2016, the Group reviewed the roll-off of the legacy long-dated fixed rate mortgages.
Following this review, the Group accelerated the amortisation of the associated fair value adjustments in line with the mortgage asset run-off, due to faster than expected prepayments since cancellation.
The exceptional loss represents the impact of accelerating the amortisation in prior years from 2012 to 2015, which was not material in any individual year.
It has been presented as an exceptional item and Strategic report Financial statements Governance 119 9.
Exceptional items continued excluded from 2016 underlying profit before tax to provide an appropriate measure of the underlying performance of the Group in 2016.
The exceptional loss would have reduced fair value hedged assets by 9.8m, retained earnings by 7.6m including the tax effect and the CET1 ratio by 0.3% points as at 31 December 2015.
Exceptional items in 2015 consist of expenses incurred in connection with share-based IPO awards granted to certain Directors, Senior Managers and employees of the Bank at admission.
With the decrease in this expense as the awards have vested to 0.4m for 2016, the separate line disclosure is no longer warranted with the expense included within staff costs during 2016.
Exceptional items are summarised in the table below: Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Gain on disposal of Rochester 1 34.7 Amortisation of fair value adjustments on hedged assets 9.8 IPO expenses 0.7 IPO share awards with future vesting provisions 1.4 24.9 2.1 IPO share awards represented the fair value at grant date of nil price options over OSB shares.
These options were granted by OSB Holdco Limited, the Banks major shareholder and as such the expense is fully covered by an additional capital contribution.
IPO expenses consisted of employers national insurance on IPO share awards.
Taxation Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Corporation tax 42.3 20.8 Total current taxation 42.3 20.8 Deferred taxation 0.1 0.4 Total taxation 42.2 21.2 The taxation on the Groups profit before taxation differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average taxation rate applicable to profits of the Group as follows: Year ended Year ended 3 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Profit before taxation 163.1 105.3 Profit multiplied by the weighted average rate of corporation taxation in the UK during 2016 of 20% 2015: 20.25% 32.6 21.3 1 Bank surcharge 8.6 Taxation effects of: 2 Expenses not deductible for taxation purposes 0.4 Adjustments in respect of earlier years 0.5 Tax adjustments in respect of share-based payments 0.1 0.1 Impact of tax losses carried forward 0.1 0.1 Timing differences on capital items 0.2 0.3 Re-measurement of deferred taxation change in tax rate 0.2 Other 0.1 Total taxation charge 42.2 21.2 1.
During the year the Government announced an additional 8% surcharge on banking profits over 25.0m, effective from 1 January 2016 2.
Expenses not deductible for taxation purposes includes 0.4m 2015: nil of intercompany interest charge corrections, taken by the Bank in 2016 and the subsidiaries in 2015 3.
Restated to be consistent with current year presentation 120 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 10.
Taxation continued A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% effective from 1 April 2015 was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
Further reductions to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 18% effective from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015, and an additional reduction to 17% effective 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
Earnings per share EPS are based on the profit for the period and the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Basic EPS are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share take into account share options and awards which can be converted to ordinary shares.
For the purpose of calculating earnings per share, profit attributable to ordinary shareholders is arrived at by adjusting profit for the year for the after-tax amounts of coupons on equity bonds: Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Profit for the year 120.9 84.1 Adjustments: 1 Coupon on Perpetual Subordinated Bonds classified as equity 1.2 1.5 Tax on coupon 0.3 0.3 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 120.0 82.9 Exceptional items: Gain on disposal of Rochester 1 34.7 Amortisation of fair value adjustments on hedged assets 9.8 IPO expenses 2.1 Tax on above 6.4 0.5 Underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 101.5 84.5 1.
During the year the Group changed from accrual based accounting to cash accounting for the interest paid on PSBs classified as equity.
The coupon rate was 6.591% until the reset date on 7 March 2016 after which it was reset to 4.5991% until the next reset date on 7 March 2021 Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 Weighted average number of shares, millions Basic 243.1 243.1 Diluted 244.6 243.8 Earnings per share, pence per share Basic 49.4 34.1 Diluted 49.0 34.0 Underlying earnings per share, pence per share Basic 41.7 34.8 Diluted 41.5 34.7 12.
Dividends During the year, the Group paid the following dividends: Group Group Year ended 31-Dec-16 Year ended 31-Dec-15 Pence per Pence per m share m share Final dividend for the prior year 16.3 6.7 9.5 3.9 Interim dividend for the current year 7.0 2.9 4.8 2.0 23.3 14.3 The Directors propose a final dividend of 7.6 pence per share 2015: 6.7 pence payable on 17 May 2017 with an ex-dividend date of 30 March 2017 and a record date of 31 March 2017.
This dividend is not reflected in these financial statements as it is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 10 May 2017.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.9 pence 2015: 2.0 pence, itmakes a total dividend for 2016 of 10.5 pence per share 2015: 8.7 pence.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 121 13.
Loans and advances to credit institutions Loans and advances to credit institutions have remaining maturities as follows: Group Group Bank Bank As at As at As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m m m Repayable on demand: 1 Bank of England 401.0 311.5 401.0 311.5 Others 16.8 43.2 12.5 11.9 417.8 354.7 413.5 323.4 1.
Balances with the Bank of England include 9.1m 2015: 8.2m held in the cash ratio deposit At 31 December 2016 nil 2015: 29.4m was ring-fenced within the Rochester 1 securitisation vehicle and could only be used to pay interest and principal of the issued debt securities.
The Group disposed of its entire economic benefit in Rochester 1 during 2016.
At 31 December 2016 the Group and Bank had 6.4m 2015: 1.4m of loans and advances with other credit institutions in the form of margin cash collateral.
Investment securities Group and Group and Bank Bank As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Government investment securities 141.7 393.4 141.7 393.4 Investment securities have remaining maturities as follows: Less than three months 82.6 25.0 Three months to one year 40.0 339.3 One to five years 19.1 29.1 141.7 393.4 At 31 December 2016 the Group held 524.6m 2015: 160.7m of treasury bills received from the Bank of England under their asset purchase facilities.
These securities are accounted for off-balance sheet but included in liquid assets for regulatory purposes.
In exchange, the Group pledges with the Bank of England either loans to customers or other investment securities.
These assets cannot be sold or pledged further under normal circumstances.
At the reporting date, the Group had no treasury assets 2015: nil pledged with the Bank of England in exchange for the treasury bills.
The value of pledged loans to customers is disclosed in note 15.
The Group had no assets sold under repos at the 2016 and 2015 reporting dates.
The Directors consider that the primary purpose of holding investment securities is prudential.
These securities are held as liquid assets with the intention of use on a continuing basis in the Groups activities and are classified as AFS.
Movements during the year of investment securities are analysed as follows: Group Group and Bank and Bank As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m At 1 January 393.4 158.6 Additions 460.4 449.0 Disposals and maturities 712.2 213.1 Changes in fair value 0.1 1.1 At 31 December 141.7 393.4 122 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 15.
Loans and advances to customers Group Group Bank Bank As at As at As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m m m BTL SME mortgages 4,094.9 3,105.5 3,290.1 2,442.5 Residential mortgages 1,859.9 2,007.1 1,613.1 1,697.9 Personal loans 9.4 49.5 9.4 49.5 5,964.2 5,162.1 4,912.6 4,189.9 Less: provision for impairment losses on loans and advances see note 16 25.0 27.3 19.1 23.3 5,939.2 5,134.8 4,893.5 4,166.6 Maturity analysis Loans and advances to customers are repayable from the reporting date as follows: Group Group Bank Bank As at As at As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m m m Less than three months 150.8 108.5 135.9 100.8 Three months to one year 162.9 140.9 123.3 119.0 One to five years 279.5 326.8 170.2 217.1 More than five years 5,371.0 4,585.9 4,483.2 3,753.0 5,964.2 5,162.1 4,912.6 4,189.9 Less: provision for impairment losses on loans and advances see note 16 25.0 27.3 19.1 23.3 5,939.2 5,134.8 4,893.5 4,166.6 The above analysis is based on contractual maturity and may not reflect actual experience of repayments, since many mortgage loans are repaid early.
During the year the Group purchased mortgage books from other financial institutions with a gross value of 205.2m for a total of 180.7m 2015: gross value 244.0m, purchase price 260.8m.
At 31 December 2016, mortgages with a carrying value of 1,413.9m 2015: 465.6m were pledged with the Bank of England under their asset purchase facilities.
Included within loans and advances to customers are mortgages totalling 21.4m 2015: nil retained by the Group, who act as master servicer for a securitisation vehicle, to comply with the EU risk retention requirements.
At 31 December 2016, mortgages with a carrying value of nil 2015: 283.7m were pledged under the Groups securitisation programme.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 123 16.
Provision for impairment losses on loans and advances Movement in provision for impairment losses on loans and advances to customers is as follows: 2016 Residential Personal BTL SME mortgages loans Total Specific m m m m Group At 1 January 2016 17.3 0.9 18.2 Write-offs in year 2.9 1.6 4.5 1 Transfer between reserves 0.1 4.8 0.3 5.2 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 2.0 2.5 4.5 At 31 December 2016 16.5 6.6 0.3 23.4 Bank At 1 January 2016 14.5 14.5 Write-offs in year 3.0 1.4 4.4 1 Transfer between reserves 0.1 4.7 0.3 5.1 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 1.0 1.5 2.5 At 31 December 2016 12.6 4.8 0.3 17.7 Residential Personal BTL SME mortgages loans Total Collective m m m m Group At 1 January 2016 0.5 1.3 7.3 9.1 Write-offs in year 0.1 1.1 1.2 2 Disposals 5.6 5.6 1 Transfer between reserves 0.1 4.8 0.3 5.2 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 0.1 4.7 0.3 4.5 At 31 December 2016 0.4 1.2 1.6 Bank At 1 January 2016 0.4 1.1 7.3 8.8 Write-offs in year 1.1 1.1 2 Disposals 5.6 5.6 1 Transfer between reserves 0.1 4.7 0.3 5.1 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 0.1 4.8 0.3 4.4 At 31 December 2016 0.2 1.2 1.4 Residential Personal BTL SME mortgages loans Total Total m m m m Group At 1 January 2016 17.8 2.2 7.3 27.3 Write-offs in year 3.0 1.6 1.1 5.7 2 Disposals 5.6 5.6 1 Transfer between reserves Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 2.1 7.2 0.3 9.0 At 31 December 2016 16.9 7.8 0.3 25.0 Bank At 1 January 2016 14.9 1.1 7.3 23.3 Write-offs in year 3.0 1.4 1.1 5.5 2 Disposals 5.6 5.6 1 Transfer between reserves Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 0.9 6.3 0.3 6.9 At 31 December 2016 12.8 6.0 0.3 19.1 1.
In 2016 there was an update to the categorisation where all loans greater than 3 months in arrears are treated as specific provisions, in addition to loans that are individually assessed.
This resulted in an increase to the specific provisions of 5.2m for the Group and 5.1m for the Bank during 2016, with a corresponding decrease in collective provisions.
If the categorisation change had been applied during 2015, the Groups opening collective provision for 2016 would have been 8.4m lower, with the opening specific provision for 2016 being 8.4m higher 2.
During 2016 the Group sold a portion of non-performing loans from its personal loan portfolio.
See note 5 for further details 124 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 16.
Provision for impairment losses on loans and advances continued 2015 Residential Personal BTL SME mortgages loans Total Specific m m m m Group At 1 January 2015 15.3 0.9 16.2 Write-offs in year 2.9 0.2 3.1 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 4.9 0.2 5.1 At 31 December 2015 17.3 0.9 18.2 Bank At 1 January 2015 11.2 0.4 11.6 Write-offs in year 1.7 0.1 1.8 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 5.0 0.3 4.7 At 31 December 2015 14.5 14.5 Residential Personal BTL SME mortgages loans Total Collective m m m m Group At 1 January 2015 0.1 1.8 8.0 9.9 Write-offs in year 2.7 3.6 6.3 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 0.4 2.2 2.9 5.5 At 31 December 2015 0.5 1.3 7.3 9.1 Bank At 1 January 2015 1.5 8.0 9.5 Write-offs in year 2.7 3.6 6.3 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 0.4 2.3 2.9 5.6 At 31 December 2015 0.4 1.1 7.3 8.8 Residential Personal BTL SME mortgages loans Total Total m m m m Group At 1 January 2015 15.4 2.7 8.0 26.1 Write-offs in year 2.9 2.9 3.6 9.4 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 5.3 2.4 2.9 10.6 At 31 December 2015 17.8 2.2 7.3 27.3 Bank At 1 January 2015 11.2 1.9 8.0 21.1 Write-offs in year 1.7 2.8 3.6 8.1 Charge credit for the year net of recoveries 5.4 2.0 2.9 10.3 At 31 December 2015 14.9 1.1 7.3 23.3 17.
Impairment losses Group Group Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Write-offs in the year 5.7 9.4 Disposals 5.6 Decrease increase in provisions 2.3 1.2 9.0 10.6 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 125 18.
Fair value adjustments on hedged items Group and Group and Bank Bank As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Hedged assets Current hedge relationships 23.6 20.4 Cancelled hedge relationships 23.3 37.8 46.9 58.2 Hedged liabilities Current hedge relationships 1.9 1.4 The fair value adjustments on hedged assets in respect of cancelled hedge relationships represent the fair value adjustment for interest rate risk on legacy long-term fixed rate mortgages c. 25 years at origination where the interest rate swap hedges were terminated before maturity and were effective at the point of termination.
The movement in cancelled hedge relationships is as follows: Group and Group and Bank Bank 2016 2015 m m Balance at 1 January 37.8 41.0 New cancellations 0.2 Amortisation see note 4 4.9 3.2 Exceptional loss see note 9 9.8 Balance at 31 December 23.3 37.8 19.
Investments in subsidiaries, intercompany loans and transactions with related parties The balances between the Bank and its subsidiaries at the reporting date are summarised in the table below: As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Investments in subsidiaries and intercompany loans receivable 984.0 944.5 Deemed loan liability 169.5 Intercompany loans payable 1.9 4.9 982.1 770.1 During the year the Group disposed of its entire economic interest in Rochester 1 securitisation vehicle.
The net movement during the year is as follows: Shares in Loans to subsidiary subsidiary undertakings undertakings Total 2016 m m m At 1 January 1.8 768.3 770.1 Additions 298.5 298.5 Repayments 86.5 86.5 At 31 December 1.8 980.3 982.1 Shares in Loans to subsidiary subsidiary undertakings undertakings Total 2015 m m m At 1 January 3.4 626.2 629.6 Additions 221.1 221.1 1 Reclassifications 1.6 1.6 Repayments 80.6 80.6 At 31 December 1.8 768.3 770.1 1.
During 2015, indirect investments held through intermediary holding companies were reclassified to intercompany loans 126 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 19.
Investments in subsidiaries, intercompany loans and transactions with related parties continued A list of the Banks subsidiaries are below.
Subsidiaries have a registered office of Reliance House, Sun Pier, Chatham, Kent, ME4 4ET Reliance House unless otherwise stated.
Balance due Charged by to by the to the Bank Bank 2016 Class of shares Activity Registered office Ownership m m Direct investments Easioption Ltd Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% 0.5 Guernsey Home Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 0.5 21.3 Loans Ltd Guernsey Home Ordinary Mortgage provider 1st Floor, Tudor 100% 1.5 64.1 Loans Ltd House, Le Bordage, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1DB Heritable Ordinary Mortgage originator Reliance House 85% 2.1 1.0 Development and servicer Finance Ltd Interbay Group Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% Holdings Ltd Jersey Home Loans Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 0.1 4.5 Ltd Jersey Home Loans Ordinary Mortgage provider 26 New Street, 100% 6.1 262.2 Ltd St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA OSB India Private Ltd Ordinary Back office Salarpuria 100% 3.7 0.5 processing Magnificia, 10th Floor, 78 Old Madras Road, Bangalore, 560016, Karnataka, India Prestige Finance Ltd Ordinary Mortgage originator Reliance House 100% 3.0 0.9 and servicer Reliance Property Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 0.1 4.4 Loans Ltd Rochester Mortgages Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% Ltd Indirect investments Cavenham Financial Ordinary Dormant entity Reliance House 100% 0.1 Services Ltd Interbay Financial Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% 0.4 19.6 I Ltd Interbay Financial Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% 0.4 17.5 II Ltd Interbay Funding Ltd Ordinary Mortgage servicer Reliance House 100% 0.1 4.4 Interbay ML Ltd Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 12.0 583.1 Interbay Holdings Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% Ltd 5 D Finance Ltd Ordinary Mortgage servicer Reliance House 100% 0.2 5 D Lending Ltd Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 0.1 12.3 980.3 1.
Heritable Development Finance Ltd is a business development partnership with Heritable Capital Ltd.
The entity is majority owned and controlled by the Bank.
Ithas minimal retained earnings and immaterial non-controlling interest which is not presented separately in the Group reserves 2.
Prestige Finance Ltd completed the rationalisation of activities from Cavenham Financial Services Ltd during 2016.
An application to strike-off Cavenham Financial Services Ltd was submitted during 2016 with the company being struck-off on 17 January 2017 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 127 19.
Investments in subsidiaries, intercompany loans and transactions with related parties continued Balance due Charged by to by the to the Bank Bank 2015 Class of shares Activity Registered office Ownership m m Direct investments Easioption Ltd Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% 0.5 OSB India Private Ordinary Back office processing Salarpuria Magnificia, 100% 0.4 0.5 Ltd Formerly 10th Floor, 78 Easiprocess Private Old Madras Road, Ltd Bangalore, 560016, Karnataka, India Guernsey Home Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 0.9 25.7 Loans Ltd Guernsey Home Ordinary Mortgage provider 1st Floor, Tudor House, 100% 2.8 79.4 Loans Ltd Le Bordage, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1DB Heritable Ordinary Mortgage originator Reliance House 85% 0.9 0.5 Development and servicer Finance Ltd Interbay Group Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% Holdings Ltd Jersey Home Loans Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 0.3 7.4 Ltd Jersey Home Loans Ordinary Mortgage provider 26 New Street, 100% 10.9 323.2 Ltd St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA Prestige Finance Ltd Ordinary Mortgage originator Reliance House 100% 0.9 3.7 and servicer Reliance Property Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 0.1 4.4 Loans Ltd Rochester Financing Ordinary Securitisation entity Reliance House 159.9 No.
1 Plc Rochester Mortgages Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% Ltd Rochester Mortgage Ordinary Securitisation entity Reliance House 100% Holdings Ltd Swingcastle Ltd Ordinary Dormant entity Reliance House 100% 0.2 Indirect investments Cavenham Financial Ordinary Dormant entity Reliance House 100% 1.7 2.9 Services Ltd Interbay Financial Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% 0.5 19.2 I Ltd Interbay Financial Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% 0.5 17.1 II Ltd Interbay Funding Ltd Ordinary Mortgage servicer Reliance House 100% 2.3 Interbay ML Ltd Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 9.7 450.9 Interbay Holdings Ordinary Holding company Reliance House 100% Ltd 5 D Finance Ltd Ordinary Mortgage servicer Reliance House 100% 0.1 5 D Lending Ltd Ordinary Mortgage provider Reliance House 100% 21.8 768.3 1.
1 plc was a securitisation entity established by the Bank in October 2013 to raise diversified funds.
Although not legally owned by the Group, it was fully controlled and subsequently consolidated as a 100% subsidiary.
The entity was sold during 2016 2.
Swingcastle Ltd was struck-off on 18 October 2016 128 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 19.
Investments in subsidiaries, intercompany loans and transactions with related parties continued All of the above investments are reviewed annually for impairment.
All of the subsidiaries are either actively trading or are fully funded by the Bank.
Based on managements assessment of the future cash flows of each entity, no impairment has been recognised.
In addition to the above subsidiaries, the Bank has transactions with Kent Reliance Provident Society KRPS, one of its founding shareholders.
KRPS runs member engagement forums for the Bank.
In exchange, the Bank provides KRPS with various services including IT, finance and other support functions.
During the year the Bank covered operating expenses of KRPS amounting to 0.2m 2015: 0.2m.
All related party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
During the year there were no related party transactions between the key management personnel and the Bank other than as described below.
Transactions with key management personnel The Board considers the key management personnel to comprise Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Directors remuneration is disclosed in note 7 and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
No loans were issued to related parties during 2016 2015: nil.
Key management personnel and connected persons held deposits with the Group of 1.3m 2015: 1.1m.
Intangible assets Group Group Bank Bank Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m m m Cost At 1 January 5.6 5.3 4.3 5.3 Reclassification from property, plant and equipment 1.2 Additions 2.9 1.3 2.5 1.2 Disposals and write-offs 2.2 2.2 At 31 December 8.5 5.6 6.8 4.3 Amortisation At 1 January 2.5 3.0 1.6 3.0 Reclassification from property, plant and equipment 0.8 Charged in year 1.3 0.9 1.1 0.8 Disposals and write-offs 2.2 2.2 At 31 December 3.8 2.5 2.7 1.6 Net book value At 31 December 4.7 3.1 4.1 2.7 Intangible assets consist of computer software.
There were no capitalised costs related to the internal development of software during the period.
During 2015, fully depreciated assets were written off.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 129 21.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Equipment, land and fixtures and 1 buildings vehicles Total Group 2016 m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 6.3 5.8 12.1 Additions 2.9 1.9 4.8 Disposals and write-offs 0.3 0.3 Translation difference 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 9.2 7.5 16.7 Depreciation At 1 January 2016 0.3 2.2 2.5 Charged in year 0.2 1.1 1.3 Disposals and write-offs 0.3 0.3 Translation difference 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 0.5 3.1 3.6 Net book value At 31 December 8.7 4.4 13.1 Equipment, Freehold land fixtures and 1 and buildings vehicles Total Group 2015 m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 1.4 9.5 10.9 Reclassification to intangible assets 1.2 1.2 Additions 4.9 3.0 7.9 Disposals and write-offs 5.5 5.5 At 31 December 2015 6.3 5.8 12.1 Depreciation At 1 January 2015 0.3 7.6 7.9 Reclassification to intangible assets 0.7 0.7 Charged in year 0.8 0.8 Disposals and write-offs 5.5 5.5 At 31 December 2015 0.3 2.2 2.5 Net book value At 31 December 2015 6.0 3.6 9.6 Freehold Equipment, land and fixtures and 1 buildings vehicles Total Bank 2016 m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 4.0 4.6 8.6 Additions 2.9 1.1 4.0 At 31 December 6.9 5.7 12.6 Depreciation At 1 January 2016 0.3 1.3 1.6 Charged in year 0.2 0.9 1.1 At 31 December 0.5 2.2 2.7 Net book value At 31 December 6.4 3.5 9.9 130 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 21.
Property, plant and equipment continued Equipment, Freehold land fixtures and 1 and buildings vehicles Total Bank 2015 m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 1.5 5.9 7.4 Additions 2.5 2.8 5.3 Disposals and write-offs 4.1 4.1 At 31 December 2015 4.0 4.6 8.6 Depreciation At 1 January 2015 0.3 4.7 5.0 Charged in year 0.7 0.7 Disposals and write-offs 4.1 4.1 At 31 December 2015 0.3 1.3 1.6 Net book value At 31 December 2015 3.7 3.3 7.0 1.
Included within freehold land and buildings is 0.5m 2015: 0.4m of leasehold improvement costs, depreciated in-line with note 1 l During the year fully depreciated assets were written off.
Deferred taxation asset Group Group Bank Bank As at As at As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 Deferred taxation asset m m m m At 1 January 3.4 3.5 0.7 0.5 Profit or loss credit charge 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.1 Tax taken to other comprehensive income and reserves 0.1 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 3.4 3.4 0.8 0.7 Analysed as: Losses carried forward 2.3 2.4 Accelerated depreciation 0.1 0.2 Share-based payments 1.0 0.7 0.8 0.7 Other 0.1 3.4 3.4 0.8 0.7 The deferred tax has been calculated using the relevant rates for the expected periods of utilisation.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had 5.1m 2015: 4.8m of losses for which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised.
During the year the Government announced an additional 8% surcharge on banking profits over 25.0m, effective from 1 January 2016.
The Banks profits are expected to be subject to the surcharge, however, subsidiaries profits are not, which means their losses of prior years will not attract an additional tax relief.
The deferred tax calculation does not take into account the surcharge effect.
A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 18% effective from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
An additional reduction to 17% effective 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
The deferred tax asset at 31 December 2016 has been calculated based on these rates.
Included within the Groups other assets are 7.3m 2015: 5.6m of deferred broker fees paid on the completion of new loans in the Interbay group of subsidiaries Strategic report Financial statements Governance 131 24.
Amounts owed to retail depositors Group Group and Bank and Bank As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Amounts owed to retail depositors 5,952.4 5,363.8 Repayable in the ordinary course of business as follows: Group Group and Bank and Bank As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m On demand 1,932.5 1,890.0 Less than three months 702.4 450.4 Three months to one year 1,977.2 1,903.2 One to five years 1,340.3 1,120.2 5,952.4 5,363.8 25.
Amounts owed to credit institutions Repayable in the ordinary course of business as follows: Group Group and Bank and Bank As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Less than three months 0.7 1.5 Three months to one year One to five years 101.0 101.7 1.5 As at 31 December 2016, amounts owed to credit institutions included 101.0m 2015: nil owed to the Bank of England under their asset purchase facilities.
In exchange, the Group pledges with the Bank of England either loans and advances to customers or other investment securities.
The value of pledged loans and advances to customers is disclosed in note 15.
The value of pledged investment securities is disclosed in note 14.
Amounts owed to other customers Repayable in the ordinary course of business as follows: Group Group and Bank and Bank As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Less than three months 4.0 5.8 Three months to one year One to five years 0.1 4.0 5.9 27.
Debt securities in issue Group Group Bank Bank As at As at As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m m m One to five years 188.4 188.4 132 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 27.
Debt securities in issue continued At the 2015 reporting date, debt securities in issue comprise AAA and AA rated notes issued by Rochester 1 and sold to thirdparty investors in 2013.
Rochester 1 being a mortgage securitisation entity established by the Bank in 2013.
The Bank retained the remaining notes and residual certificates issued by Rochester 1 and as such did not transfer substantially the risks and rewards of ownership of the securitised mortgages.
These mortgages therefore remained on the Banks balance sheet and the Group consolidated Rochester 1.
The Bank sold its entire economic interest including the remaining notes and residual certificates issued in Rochester 1 on 26 May 2016.
The sale resulted in derecognition of securitised mortgage assets from the Banks balance sheet and the deconsolidation of Rochester 1 which included the debt securities in issue.
Other liabilities Group Group Bank Bank As at As at As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m m m Falling due within one year: Tax deducted at source from interest paid 1.7 1.7 Accruals and deferred income 7.6 7.7 6.0 6.3 1 Other creditors 11.0 9.5 1.4 1.5 18.6 18.9 7.4 9.5 1.
Included within the Groups other creditors are 8.7m 2015: 7.1m of accrued arrangement fees received on the completion of new loans in the Interbay group of subsidiaries 29.
FSCS and other provisions The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS provides protection of deposits for the customers of authorised financial services firms, should a firm collapse.
FSCS protects retail deposits of up to 75,000 2015: 85,000 for single account holders and 150,000 2015: 170,000 for joint holders.
From 30 January 2017 protected deposits will increase to 85,000 for single account holders and 170,000 for joint holders.
The compensation paid out to consumers is initially funded through loans from the Bank of England and HM Treasury.
In order to repay the loans and cover its costs, the FSCS charges levies on firms regulated by the PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Group is among those firms and pays the FSCS a levy based on its share of total UK deposits.
The FSCS levy is the main regulatory provision of the Group.
The ultimate FSCS levy to the industry as a result of the insolvencies cannot currently be estimated reliably as it is dependent on various uncertain factors including the potential recoveries of assets by the FSCS and changes in the level of protected deposits and the population of FSCS members at the time.
An analysis of the Group and Banks FSCS and other provisions are presented below: Other Other FSCS provisions Total FSCS provisions Total Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 Group and Bank m m m m m m As at 1 January 2.2 0.1 2.3 1.5 0.1 1.6 Paid during the year 1.3 1.3 2.7 2.7 Charge credit 0.5 0.5 3.4 3.4 At 31 December 1.4 0.1 1.5 2.2 0.1 2.3 In accordance with IFRIC 21 interpretation of IAS 37, FSCS liability for 2016 will be recognised in 2017.
The FSCS balance at the reporting date relates to the levy from previous years.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 133 30.
Subordinated liabilities Group and Group and Bank Bank As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Linked to LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate : Floating rate subordinated liabilities 2016 LIBOR 1.5% 3.0 Floating rate subordinated liabilities 2017 LIBOR 1.5% 5.7 5.7 Floating rate subordinated loans 2022 LIBOR 5% 0.3 0.3 Floating rate subordinated loans 2022 LIBOR 2% 0.4 0.4 Linked to the average standard mortgage rate of the five largest building societies: Floating rate subordinated liabilities 2017 5.963% 5.0 5.0 Fixed rate: 1 Subordinated liabilities 2024 7.45% 5.1 2 Subordinated liabilities 2024 6.45% 5.1 10.2 21.6 24.6 1.
On 27 September 2016 the Group decided not to call the 5m first tranche of the subordinated debt with original maturity of 27 September 2024.
As the debt was not called, the coupon rate reset to 7.45% until maturity 2.
The Group has the option to call the 5m second tranche of the subordinated debt on 27 September 2019 Subordinated liabilities are repayable at the dates stated or earlier at the option of the Group with the prior consent of the PRA.
All subordinated liabilities are denominated in Sterling and are unlisted.
The rights of repayment of the holders of these subordinated liabilities are subordinated to the claims of all depositors and all creditors.
Perpetual subordinated bonds Group and Group and Bank Bank As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Sterling perpetual subordinated bonds 15.3 15.3 The bonds are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
They were issued with no discretion over the payment of interest and are therefore classified as financial liabilities.
Share capital Group and Bank OSB ordinary shares of 0.01 each Number of Nominal value Premium shares m m At 1 January 2016 243,079,965 2.4 157.9 Shares issued under OSB employee share plan 2,126 At 31 December 2016 243,082,091 2.4 157.9 As at 1 January and 31 December 2015 243,079,965 2.4 157.9 33.
Other reserves Transfer reserve The transfer reserve of 12.8m Bank: 15.2m represents the difference between the true value of net assets transferred to the Group from Kent Reliance Building Society in 2011 and the value of shares issued to the A ordinary shareholders.
AFS reserve The AFS reserve of nil 2015: 0.1m asset represents the cumulative net change in the fair value of investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income net of deferred tax.
Perpetual subordinated bonds In addition to the PSBs in note 31, the Bank has issued 22.0m of PSBs which are classified as equity, as full discretion can be exercised by the Directors over the payment of the coupon.
The classification of these PSBs means that any coupon payments on them are treated within retained earnings rather than through profit or loss.
The coupon rate was 6.591% until the reset date on 7 March 2016 after which it was reset to 4.5991% until the next reset date on 7 March 2021.
134 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 34.
Financial commitments and guarantees a As at 31 December 2016, the Groups contracted or anticipated capital expenditure commitments not provided for amounted to 1.1m 2015: 0.1m.
2016 consists of branch refurbishment costs and UK head office improvements.
2015 consisted of unfinished refurbishment of the new Indian office.
b Operating lease commitments are summarised in the table below: Group Group Bank Bank As at As at As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m m m Land and buildings: due within: One year 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.2 Two to five years 0.9 1.0 0.8 0.6 1.3 1.3 1.2 0.8 c Undrawn mortgage loan facilities: Group Group Bank Bank As at As at As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m m m As at 31 December 365.4 339.1 297.2 317.3 Undrawn loan facilities are approved loan applications which have not yet been exercised.
They are payable on demand and are usually drawn down or expire within three months.
d The Group did not have any issued financial guarantees as at 31 December 2016 2015: nil.
Risk management and financial instruments Overview Financial instruments form the vast majority of the Groups and Banks assets and liabilities.
The Group manages risk on a consolidated basis, and risk disclosures are provided on this basis.
Types of financial instrument Financial instruments are a broad definition which includes financial assets, financial liabilities and equity instruments.
The main financial assets of the Group are loans to customers and liquid assets which in turn consist of cash in the Bank of England reserve account, call accounts with other credit institutions and UK and EU sovereign debt.
These are funded by a combination of financial liabilities and equity instruments.
Financial liability funding comes predominantly from retail deposits, supported by debt securities, subordinated debt, wholesale and other funding.
Equity instruments include own shares and perpetual bonds meeting the equity classification criteria.
The Groups main activity is mortgage lending: it raises funds or invests in particular types of financial assets primarily in order to satisfy banking industry regulations and manage the risks arising from its operations.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group uses derivative instruments to manage its financial risks.
Derivative financial instruments derivatives are financial instruments which value changes in response to changes in underlying variables such as interest rates.
Typically the contract value of derivatives is much smaller than that of the instruments they relate to which makes them a convenient tool for benefiting from value changes without the need to buy or sell the whole underlying product.
The most common derivatives comprise futures, forwards and swaps.
Among these, the Group only uses swaps.
Derivatives are used by the Group solely to reduce hedge the risk of loss arising from changes in market factors.
Derivatives are not used for speculative purposes.
Types of derivatives and uses The derivative instruments used by the Group in managing its risk exposures are interest rate swaps and basis rate swaps.
Interest rate swaps convert fixed interest rates to floating or vice versa.
Basis rate swaps perform a similar function by converting cash flows from one interest rate basis to another.
As with other derivatives, the underlying product is not sold and payments are based on notional principal amounts.
Unhedged fixed rate liabilities create the risk of paying above-the-market rate if interest rates subsequently decrease.
Unhedged fixed rate mortgages and liquid assets bear the opposite risk of earning below-the-market income when rates go up.
While fixed rate assets and liabilities naturally hedge each other to a certain extent, this hedge is usually never balanced.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 135 35.
Risk management and financial instruments continued The Group uses swaps to convert its instruments, such as mortgages, deposits and liquid assets, from fixed or base rate-linked rates to LIBOR-linked variable rates.
This ensures a guaranteed margin between the interest income and interest expense, regardless of changes in the market rates.
Types of risk The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are credit, liquidity and market risks, the latter comprising of interest and exchange rate risk.
In addition to financial risks, the Group is exposed to various other risks, most notably operational, conduct and regulatory, covered in the Chief Risk Officers Report.
The financial risks are analysed below.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that unexpected losses may arise as a result of the Groups borrowers or market counterparties failing to meet their obligations to repay.
The Group has adopted the Standardised Approach for assessment of credit risk capital requirements.
This approach considers risk weightings as defined under Basel II and Basel III principles.
The classes of financial instruments to which the Group is most exposed are loans and advances to customers, loans and advances to credit institutions, cash in the Bank of England reserve account, call and current accounts with other credit institutions and investment securities.
The maximum credit risk exposure equals the total carrying amount of the above categories plus off-balance sheet undrawn mortgage facilities.
Credit risk loans and advances to customers Credit risk associated with mortgage lending is largely driven by the housing market and level of unemployment.
A recession and or high interest rates could cause pressure within the market, resulting in rising levels of arrears and repossessions.
All loan applications are assessed with reference to the Groups lending policy.
Changes to the policy are approved by the Board, with mandates set for the approval of loan applications.
The Credit Committee and the Asset-Liability Committee ALCO regularly monitor lending activity, taking appropriate actions to re-price products and adjust lending criteria in order to control risk and manage exposure.
Where necessary and appropriate, changes to the lending policy are recommended to the Risk Committee and the Board.
The following table shows an analysis of the lending portfolio by borrower type at the reporting date: Group Group As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 m % m % BTL SME mortgages 4,094.9 69% 3,105.5 60% Residential mortgages 1,859.9 31% 2,007.1 39% Personal loans 9.4 49.5 1% Total loans before provisions 5,964.2 100% 5,162.1 100% Bank Bank As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 m % m % BTL SME mortgages 3,290.1 67% 2,442.5 58% Residential mortgages 1,613.1 33% 1,697.9 41% Personal loans 9.4 49.5 1% Total loans before provisions 4,912.6 100% 4,189.9 100% 136 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 35.
Risk management and financial instruments continued Property values are updated to reflect changes in the house price index.
During 2016 the Group received enriched data for BTL SME items and has subsequently reclassified the 2015 comparatives for funding line items.
Risk management and financial instruments continued As at 31-Dec-15 First Second Funding charge charge lines Total Bank m m m m Band 0%50% 530.0 152.7 2.2 684.9 50%60% 170.9 111.8 2.1 284.8 60%70% 156.1 116.6 42.2 314.9 70%80% 153.1 85.5 7.0 245.6 80%90% 87.6 31.7 2.5 121.8 90%100% 23.8 11.3 35.1 100% 2.5 8.2 0.1 10.8 Total mortgages before provisions 1,124.0 517.8 56.1 1,697.9 Analysis of mortgage portfolio by arrears and collateral held The tables below provide further information on collateral in the mortgage portfolio by payment due status.
Capped collateral only recognises collateral to the value of each individual mortgage and does not recognise .
The collateral position by LTV bands is captured in the LTV analysis above.
In 2016 there was an update to the provision categorisation where collectively assessed provisions on loans greater than 3 months in arrears are now treated as specific, in addition to those that are individually assessed, as disclosed in note 16.
The 2015 comparatives have not been restated.
Below is a summary of capped collateral: 1 Group Group As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 Capped Capped Loan balance collateral Loan balance collateral m m m m Not past due and not impaired 5,478.4 5,464.5 4,678.1 4,658.6 Past due but not impaired 395.9 395.8 389.0 388.4 Impaired 80.5 69.1 45.5 40.4 Total mortgages before provisions 5,954.8 5,929.4 5,112.6 5,087.4 Personal loans 9.4 49.5 Total loans before provisions 5,964.2 5,162.1 1 Bank Bank As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 Capped Capped Loan balance collateral Loan balance collateral m m m m Not past due and not impaired 4,494.3 4,481.3 3,770.3 3,751.3 Past due but not impaired 349.1 349.0 340.2 339.8 Impaired 59.8 50.9 29.9 26.1 Total mortgages before provisions 4,903.2 4,881.2 4,140.4 4,117.2 Personal loans 9.4 49.5 Total loans before provisions 4,912.6 4,189.9 1.
During 2016 the Group received revised data for impairments and has subsequently restated the 2015 comparatives 140 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 35.
Mortgages with properties in possession are not considered impaired if the fair value of collateral exceeds the value of debt 2.
Impaired is defined as loans with a specific provision against them Strategic report Financial statements Governance 141 35.
Risk management and financial instruments continued Analysis of mortgage portfolio by arrears for BTL SME As at 31-Dec-16 Residential Funding Buy-to-Let Commercial development lines Total Group m m m m m Not impaired: Not past due 3,468.7 252.9 141.6 71.7 3,934.9 Past due 1 month 62.5 3.3 65.8 Past due 1 to 3 months 56.5 1.1 57.6 Past due 3 to 6 months 2.0 0.3 2.3 Past due 6 to 12 months 0.4 0.7 1.1 Past due over 12 months 0.3 0.3 3,590.1 258.6 141.6 71.7 4,062.0 Impaired: Not past due 2.5 0.1 2.6 Past due 1 month 0.4 0.4 Past due 1 to 3 months 0.3 0.3 Past due 3 to 6 months 1.1 0.2 1.3 Past due 6 to 12 months 2.3 0.1 2.4 Past due over 12 months 9.0 6.0 15.0 Possessions 8.3 2.6 10.9 23.2 9.7 32.9 Total mortgages before provisions 3,613.3 268.3 141.6 71.7 4,094.9 As at 31-Dec-15 Residential Funding Buy-to-Let Commercial development lines Total Group m m m m m Not impaired: Not past due 2,593.0 214.7 95.0 69.8 2,972.5 Past due 1 month 72.2 3.6 75.8 Past due 1 to 3 months 13.4 0.7 14.1 Past due 3 to 6 months 0.4 0.9 1.3 Past due 6 to 12 months 1.7 1.4 3.1 Past due over 12 months 0.7 0.4 1.1 2,681.4 221.7 95.0 69.8 3,067.9 Impaired: Not past due 8.9 4.4 13.3 Past due 1 month 0.1 0.1 Past due 1 to 3 months 0.1 0.1 Past due 3 to 6 months 0.4 0.5 0.9 Past due 6 to 12 months 3.4 3.4 Past due over 12 months 8.7 0.7 9.4 Possessions 7.7 2.7 10.4 29.1 8.5 37.6 Total mortgages before provisions 2,710.5 230.2 95.0 69.8 3,105.5 142 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 35.
Risk management and financial instruments continued As at 31-Dec-16 Residential Funding Buy-to-Let Commercial development lines Total Bank m m m m m Not impaired: Not past due 2,922.4 25.1 141.6 71.7 3,160.8 Past due 1 month 53.6 1.4 55.0 Past due 1 to 3 months 50.2 0.3 50.5 Past due 3 to 6 months 0.6 0.6 Past due 6 to 12 months 0.4 0.4 Past due over 12 months 0.3 0.3 3,027.2 27.1 141.6 71.7 3,267.6 Impaired: Not past due 2.6 0.1 2.7 Past due 1 month Past due 1 to 3 months Past due 3 to 6 months 0.8 0.8 Past due 6 to 12 months 1.2 1.2 Past due over 12 months 8.5 4.9 13.4 Possessions 4.4 4.4 17.5 5.0 22.5 Total mortgages before provisions 3,044.7 32.1 141.6 71.7 3,290.1 As at 31-Dec-15 Residential Funding Buy-to-Let Commercial development lines Total Bank m m m m m Not impaired: Not past due 2,151.2 23.5 95.0 69.8 2,339.5 Past due 1 month 60.9 1.0 61.9 Past due 1 to 3 months 10.6 0.5 11.1 Past due 3 to 6 months 0.1 0.1 Past due 6 to 12 months 0.9 0.9 2,222.8 25.9 95.0 69.8 2,413.5 Impaired: Not past due 8.8 4.2 13.0 Past due 6 to 12 months 2.8 2.8 Past due over 12 months 8.8 8.8 Possessions 4.4 4.4 24.8 4.2 29.0 Total mortgages before provisions 2,247.6 30.1 95.0 69.8 2,442.5 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 143 35.
Risk management and financial instruments continued Analysis of mortgage portfolio by arrears for Residential As at 31-Dec-16 First Second Funding charge charge lines Total Group m m m m Not impaired: Not past due 1,100.6 392.3 50.6 1,543.5 Past due 1 month 99.8 17.9 117.7 Past due 1 to 3 months 80.2 30.4 110.6 Past due 3 to 6 months 12.8 9.3 22.1 Past due 6 to 12 months 5.0 6.7 11.7 Past due over 12 months 2.8 3.1 5.9 Possessions 0.8 0.8 1,302.0 459.7 50.6 1,812.3 Impaired: Not past due 0.6 0.6 Past due 1 month 0.6 0.6 Past due 1 to 3 months 0.9 0.9 Past due 3 to 6 months 6.0 7.5 13.5 Past due 6 to 12 months 5.8 8.1 13.9 Past due over 12 months 4.9 11.9 16.8 Possessions 1.3 1.3 20.1 27.5 47.6 Total mortgages before provisions 1,322.1 487.2 50.6 1,859.9 As at 31-Dec-15 First Second Funding charge charge lines Total Group m m m m Not impaired: Not past due 1,255.1 394.4 56.1 1,705.6 Past due 1 month 90.7 44.0 134.7 Past due 1 to 3 months 43.6 32.8 76.4 Past due 3 to 6 months 18.9 17.6 36.5 Past due 6 to 12 months 10.2 13.0 23.2 Past due over 12 months 5.5 16.0 21.5 Possessions 1.3 1.3 1,425.3 517.8 56.1 1,999.2 Impaired: Not past due 0.2 0.2 Past due 1 month Past due 1 to 3 months 0.2 0.2 Past due 3 to 6 months 1.8 1.8 Past due 6 to 12 months 1.9 1.9 Past due over 12 months 3.1 3.1 Possessions 0.7 0.7 7.9 7.9 Total mortgages before provisions 1,433.2 517.8 56.1 2,007.1 144 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 35.
Risk management and financial instruments continued As at 31-Dec-16 First Second Funding charge charge lines Total Bank m m m m Not impaired: Not past due 890.6 392.3 50.6 1,333.5 Past due 1 month 89.3 17.9 107.2 Past due 1 to 3 months 65.9 30.4 96.3 Past due 3 to 6 months 11.6 9.3 20.9 Past due 6 to 12 months 5.0 6.7 11.7 Past due over 12 months 2.3 3.1 5.4 Possessions 0.8 0.8 1,065.5 459.7 50.6 1,575.8 Impaired: Not past due Past due 1 month 0.5 0.5 Past due 1 to 3 months Past due 3 to 6 months 4.2 7.5 11.7 Past due 6 to 12 months 3.6 8.1 11.7 Past due over 12 months 1.4 11.9 13.3 Possessions 0.1 0.1 9.8 27.5 37.3 Total mortgages before provisions 1,075.3 487.2 50.6 1,613.1 As at 31-Dec-15 First Second Funding charge charge lines Total Bank m m m m Not impaired: Not past due 980.3 394.4 56.1 1,430.8 Past due 1 month 79.6 44.0 123.6 Past due 1 to 3 months 34.9 32.8 67.7 Past due 3 to 6 months 17.4 17.6 35.0 Past due 6 to 12 months 6.9 13.0 19.9 Past due over 12 months 3.1 16.0 19.1 Possessions 0.9 0.9 1,123.1 517.8 56.1 1,697.0 Impaired: Not past due Past due 1 month Past due 1 to 3 months Past due 3 to 6 months 0.5 0.5 Past due 6 to 12 months Past due over 12 months 0.4 0.4 Possessions 0.9 0.9 Total mortgages before provisions 1,124.0 517.8 56.1 1,697.9 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 145 35.
Risk management and financial instruments continued Analysis of personal loans by arrears The arrears analysis of unsecured personal loans is provided in the table below: As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 Group and Bank m m Not impaired: Not past due 8.7 40.9 Past due up to 3months 0.2 1.1 Past due 3 to 6 months 1.0 Past due 6 to 12 months 1.5 Past due over 12 months 5.0 8.9 49.5 Impaired: Past due 3 to 6 months 0.2 Past due 6 to 12 months 0.3 0.5 Total personal loans before provisions 9.4 49.5 Geographical analysis by region An analysis of loans by region is provided below: Group Group As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 Region m % m % East Anglia 182.2 3% 146.9 3% East Midlands 204.5 3% 173.6 3% Greater London 2,543.1 43% 2,116.4 42% Guernsey 93.4 2% 110.5 2% Jersey 282.0 5% 340.2 7% North East 90.3 2% 74.0 1% North West 273.2 5% 247.9 5% Northern Ireland 16.8 15.7 Scotland 56.1 1% 64.7 1% South East 1,278.5 21% 1,020.6 21% South West 380.6 6% 324.2 6% Wales 114.7 2% 105.6 2% West Midlands 308.6 5% 257.0 5% Yorks and Humberside 130.8 2% 115.3 2% Total mortgages before provisions 5,954.8 100% 5,112.6 100% Personal loans 9.4 49.5 Total loans before provisions 5,964.2 5,162.1 146 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 35.
Risk management and financial instruments continued Bank Bank As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 Region m % m % East Anglia 159.7 3% 131.9 3% East Midlands 164.8 3% 140.7 3% Greater London 2,234.3 46% 1,872.1 45% North East 74.6 2% 65.1 2% North West 228.4 5% 213.5 5% Northern Ireland 16.4 15.2 Scotland 55.3 1% 63.7 2% South East 1,161.7 24% 938.3 23% South West 335.4 7% 288.4 7% Wales 102.2 2% 95.3 2% West Midlands 272.7 5% 230.7 6% Yorks and Humberside 97.7 2% 85.5 2% Total mortgages before provisions 4,903.2 100% 4,140.4 100% Personal loans 9.4 49.5 Total loans before provisions 4,912.6 4,189.9 Credit risk investment securities and loans and advances to credit institutions The Group holds treasury instruments in order to meet liquidity requirements and for general business purposes.
The credit risk arising from these investments is closely monitored and managed by the Groups treasury department.
In managing these assets, Group treasury operates within guidelines laid down in the treasury policy approved by the Board and performance is monitored and reported to ALCO monthly, including through the use of an internally developed rating model based on counterparty credit default swap spreads.
The Group has limited exposure to emerging markets Indian operations and non-investment-grade debt.
The ALCO is responsible for approving treasury counterparties.
During the year, the average balance of cash in hand, loans and advances to credit institutions and investment securities on a monthly basis was 678.8m 2015: 703.0m.
Group Less than AAA AA A A A rating Unrated Total As at 31-Dec-16 m m m m m m m 1 Bank of England 401.0 401.0 Call accounts 1.5 0.5 4.4 10.4 16.8 Floating rate notes 29.1 29.1 Treasury bills 112.6 112.6 Total 29.1 515.1 0.5 4.4 10.4 559.5 Group Less than AAA AA A A A rating Unrated Total As at 31-Dec-15 m m m m m m m 1 Bank of England 311.5 311.5 Call accounts 29.4 2.5 9.9 1.4 43.2 Floating rate notes 34.1 34.1 Treasury bills 359.3 359.3 Total 704.9 29.4 2.5 9.9 1.4 748.1 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 147 35.
Risk management and financial institutions continued Bank Less than AAA AA A A A rating Unrated Total As at 31-Dec-16 m m m m m m m 1 Bank of England 401.0 401.0 Call accounts 1.5 0.5 4.4 6.1 12.5 Floating rate notes 29.1 29.1 Treasury bills 112.6 112.6 Total 29.1 515.1 0.5 4.4 6.1 555.2 Bank Less than AAA AA A A A rating Unrated Total As at 31-Dec-15 m m m m m m m 1 Bank of England 311.5 311.5 Call accounts 2.5 9.4 11.9 Floating rate notes 34.1 34.1 Treasury bills 359.3 359.3 Total 704.9 2.5 9.4 716.8 1.
Balances with the Bank of England include 9.1m 2015: 8.2m held in the cash ratio deposit Geographical exposure Group Group As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 m % m % United Kingdom 525.6 94% 683.2 91% Rest of Europe 29.1 5% 34.1 5% Canada 1.5 Australia 29.4 4% India 3.3 1% 1.4 Total 559.5 100% 748.1 100% 148 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 35.
Risk management and financial institutions continued Bank Bank As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 m % m % United Kingdom 524.6 95% 682.7 95% Rest of Europe 29.1 5% 34.1 5% Canada 1.5 Total 555.2 100% 716.8 100% The Group monitors exposure concentrations against a variety of criteria, including asset class, sector and geography.
To avoid refinancing risks associated with any one counterparty, sector or geographical region, the Board has set appropriate limits.
These are contained in the treasury policy.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of having insufficient liquid assets to fulfil obligations as they become due or the cost of raising liquid funds becoming too expensive.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity risk is to maintain sufficient liquid resources to cover cash flow imbalances and fluctuations in funding in order to retain full public confidence in the solvency of the Group and to enable the Group to meet its financial obligations.
This is achieved through maintaining a prudent level of liquid assets and control of the growth of the business.
The Group has established a reserve account with the Bank of England and has access to its contingent liquidity facilities.
Liquidity management is the responsibility of the ALCO, with day-to-day management delegated to treasury as detailed in the treasury policy.
The ALCO is responsible for setting limits over the level and maturity profile of wholesale funding and for monitoring the composition of the Group financial position.
For each material class of financial liability a contractual maturity analysis is provided in notes 24 to 30.
The Group also monitors a range of numeric triggers, defined in the contingency funding plan CFP and Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP, which are designed to capture liquidity stresses in advance in order to allow sufficient time for management action to take effect.
These are monitored daily by the risk team, with breaches immediately reported to the Chief Risk Officer, Deputy Chief Risk Officer, CEO, CFO and Head of Treasury.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups gross contractual cash flows payable under financial liabilities: Group Up to More than 3months 312 months 15 years 5years Total As at 31-Dec-16 m m m m m Amounts owed to retail depositors 2,648.9 2,026.0 1,418.8 6,093.7 Amounts owed to credit institutions and other customers 4.6 0.2 101.8 106.6 Derivative financial instruments 1.3 4.9 9.9 9.5 25.6 Other liabilities 18.6 18.6 Subordinated liabilities 3.0 8.6 7.2 6.8 25.6 Perpetual subordinated bonds 0.4 0.4 3.6 15.0 19.4 Total liabilities 2,676.8 2,040.1 1,541.3 31.3 6,289.5 Off balance sheet loan commitments 365.4 365.4 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 149 35.
Risk management and financial institutions continued Group Up to More than 3months 312 months 15 years 5years Total As at 31-Dec-15 m m m m m Amounts owed to retail depositors 2,304.5 1,974.4 1,182.6 5,461.5 Amounts owed to credit institutions and other customers 6.9 0.1 7.0 Debt securities in issue 9.6 37.7 146.6 193.9 Derivative financial instruments 0.7 5.3 7.2 8.3 21.5 Other liabilities 18.9 18.9 Subordinated liabilities 0.3 8.8 16.7 0.7 26.5 Perpetual subordinated bonds 0.3 0.9 4.7 15.0 20.9 Total liabilities 2,341.2 2,027.1 1,357.9 24.0 5,750.2 Off balance sheet loan commitments 339.0 339.0 Bank Up to More than 3months 312 months 15 years 5years Total As at 31-Dec-16 m m m m m Amounts owed to retail depositors 2,648.9 2,026.0 1,418.8 6,093.7 Amounts owed to credit institutions and other customers 4.6 0.2 101.8 106.6 Derivative financial instruments 1.3 4.9 9.9 9.5 25.6 Other liabilities 7.4 7.4 Subordinated liabilities 3.0 8.6 7.2 6.8 25.6 Perpetual subordinated bonds 0.4 0.4 3.6 15.0 19.4 Total liabilities 2,665.6 2,040.1 1,541.3 31.3 6,278.3 Off balance sheet loan commitments 297.2 297.2 Bank Up to More than 3months 312 months 15 years 5years Total As at 31-Dec-15 m m m m m Amounts owed to retail depositors 2,304.5 1,974.4 1,182.6 5,461.5 Amounts owed to credit institutions and other customers 6.9 0.1 7.0 Derivative financial instruments 0.7 5.3 7.2 8.3 21.5 Other liabilities 9.5 9.5 Subordinated liabilities 0.3 8.8 16.7 0.7 26.5 Perpetual subordinated bonds 0.3 0.9 4.7 15.0 20.9 Total liabilities 2,322.2 1,989.4 1,211.3 24.0 5,546.9 Off balance sheet loan commitments 317.3 317.3 The actual repayment profile of retail deposits may differ from the analysis above due to the option of early withdrawal with apenalty.
150 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 35.
Risk management and financial institutions continued Asset encumbrance levels are monitored monthly at ALCO.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups encumbered and unencumbered assets: Group Group As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 Encumbered Unencumbered Encumbered Unencumbered m m m m Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 15.5 402.3 39.0 315.7 Investment securities 141.7 393.4 Loans and advances to customers 1,435.3 4,503.9 749.3 4,385.5 Derivative assets 1.8 1.0 Fair value hedges assets 46.9 58.2 Deferred taxation asset 3.4 3.4 Intangible assets 4.7 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 13.1 9.6 Other assets 11.9 11.8 1,450.8 5,130.1 788.3 5,182.1 Bank Bank As at 31-Dec-16 As at 31-Dec-15 Encumbered Unencumbered Encumbered Unencumbered m m m m Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 15.5 398.0 9.6 313.8 Investment securities 141.7 393.4 Loans and advances to customers 1,435.3 3,458.2 749.3 3,417.3 Derivative assets 1.8 1.0 Fair value hedges assets 46.9 58.2 Deferred taxation asset 0.8 0.7 Intangible assets 4.1 2.7 Property, plant and equipment 9.9 7.0 Investments in subsidiaries and intercompany loans 984.0 944.5 Other assets 3.8 5.4 1,450.8 5,049.6 758.9 5,144.4 Market risk Market risk is the risk of an adverse change in Group income or the Groups net worth arising from movement in interest rates, exchange rates or other market prices.
Market risk exists, to some extent, in all the Groups businesses.
The Group recognises that the effective management of market risk is essential to the maintenance of stable earnings and preservation of shareholder value.
Interest rate risk The primary market risk faced by the Group is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
It is most prevalent in mortgage lending where fixed rate mortgages are not funded by fixed rate deposits of the same duration, or where the fixed rate risk is not hedged by a fully matching interest rate derivative.
The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates reflecting the mismatch between the dates on which interest receivable on assets and interest payable on liabilities are next reset to market rates or, if earlier, the dates on which the instruments mature.
Exposure is mitigated on a continuous basis through the use of derivatives and reserve allocations within limits set by the ALCO and the Board currently 1.5% of common equity tier 1 capital CET1.
The Group measures interest rate risk using 14 different interest rate curve shift scenarios designed to emulate a full range of market movements.
These 14 scenarios are defined by ALCO and are based on three shapes of curve movement shift, twist and flex with movements in rates scaled to approximate the potential move over one year at 99.9% two-tailed confidence interval with interest rates floored to zero.
In addition, the regulatory scenario of an un-floored parallel shift of 200bps in both directions Strategic report Financial statements Governance 151 35.
Risk management and financial institutions continued is applied.
After taking into account the derivatives entered into by the Group, the maximum loss under these scenarios as at 31 December 2016 would have been 1.9m and the maximum gain 2.1m.
Against a parallel interest rate movement of 2%, the impact would have been a 3.9m gain 2015: 0.2m gain recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
There is no material difference between the interest rate risk profile for the Group and that for the Bank.
Foreign exchange rate risk The Group has limited exposure to foreign exchange risk in respect of its Indian operations.
A 5% movement in exchange rates would result in 0.1m 2015: 0.1m effect in profit or loss and 0.2m 2015: 0.2m in equity.
The Bank is not exposed to foreign exchange risk since all its assets and liabilities are expressed in Pounds Sterling.
Structured entities The Group had no structured entities as at 31 December 2016, following the disposal of Rochester 1 during the year.
Rochester 1 held legal title to a pool of mortgages which were used as a security for issued debt.
The transfer of mortgages failed derecognition criteria because the Bank retained the remaining notes and residual certificates issued and as such did not transfer substantially the risks and rewards of ownership of the securitised mortgages.
Therefore, the Group was exposed to the credit, interest rate and other risks on the securitised mortgages to the same extent as on the other mortgages.
It mitigates these risks on a Group basis as discussed throughout this note.
Cash flows generated from the mortgages securitised within Rochester 1 were ring-fenced, i. e. could only be used to pay interest and principal of the issued debt securities in a waterfall order according to the seniority of bonds.
The securitisation vehicle was self-funded and the Group was not contractually or constructively obliged to provide it further liquidity or financial support.
The maximum loss exposure at any point in time was the amount of cash and cash equivalents held in Rochester 1.
Fair value adjustments for hedged items This represents the fair value adjustments to the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities as a result of portfolio hedging.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The following tables give a comparison of book and fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at the reporting date.
Carrying Principal amount amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group 2016 m m m m m m Financial instruments measured at fair value Financial assets Investment securities 141.7 141.6 141.7 141.7 Derivative assets 1.8 2,267.1 1.8 1.8 143.5 2,408.7 141.7 1.8 143.5 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities 24.4 612.4 24.4 24.4 Financial instruments not measured at fair value Financial assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 417.8 417.8 417.8 417.8 Loans and advances to customers 5,939.2 6,069.4 6,259.1 6,259.1 6,357.4 6,487.6 418.2 6,259.1 6,677.3 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 5,952.4 5,906.5 5,992.4 5,992.4 Amounts owed to credit institutions 101.7 101.6 101.7 101.7 Amounts owed to other customers 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 Subordinated liabilities 21.6 20.7 24.0 24.0 Perpetual subordinated bonds 15.3 15.0 17.2 17.2 6,095.0 6,047.8 6,139.3 6,139.3 152 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 35.
Risk management and financial institutions continued Carrying Principal amount amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group 2015 m m m m m m Financial instruments measured at fair value Financial assets Investment securities 393.4 394.0 393.4 393.4 Derivative assets 1.0 469.4 1.0 1.0 394.4 863.4 393.4 1.0 394.4 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities 19.8 2,022.9 19.8 19.8 Financial instruments not measured at fair value Financial assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 354.7 350.5 354.7 354.7 Loans and advances to customers 5,134.8 5,307.4 5,459.3 5,459.3 5,489.9 5,658.3 355.1 5,459.3 5,814.4 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 5,363.8 5,317.3 5,405.3 5,405.3 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.4 Amounts owed to other customers 5.9 5.6 5.6 5.6 Debt securities in issue 188.4 187.8 188.5 188.5 Subordinated liabilities 24.6 24.3 25.1 25.1 Perpetual subordinated bonds 15.3 15.0 17.8 17.8 5,599.5 5,551.4 5,455.2 188.5 5,643.7 Carrying Principal amount amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Bank 2016 m m m m m m Financial instruments measured at fair value Financial assets Investment securities 141.7 141.6 141.7 141.7 Derivative assets 1.8 2,267.1 1.8 1.8 143.5 2,408.7 141.7 1.8 143.5 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities 24.4 612.4 24.4 24.4 Financial instruments not measured at fair value Financial assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 413.5 413.5 413.5 413.5 Loans and advances to customers 4,893.5 5,015.0 5,167.7 5,167.7 Investments in group undertakings 984.0 984.0 984.0 984.0 6,291.4 6,412.9 1,397.9 5,167.7 6,565.6 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 5,952.4 5,906.5 5,992.4 5,992.4 Amounts owed to credit institutions 101.7 101.6 101.7 101.7 Amounts owed to other customers 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 Subordinated liabilities 21.6 20.7 24.0 24.0 Perpetual subordinated bonds 15.3 15.0 17.2 17.2 6,095.0 6,047.8 6,139.3 6,139.3 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 153 35.
Risk management and financial institutions continued Carrying Principal amount amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Bank 2015 m m m m m m Financial instruments measured at fair value Financial assets Investment securities 393.4 394.0 393.4 393.4 Derivative assets 1.0 469.4 1.0 1.0 394.4 863.4 393.4 1.0 394.4 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities 19.8 2,022.9 19.8 19.8 Financial instruments not measured at fair value Financial assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 323.4 319.2 323.4 323.4 Loans and advances to customers 4,166.6 4,331.5 4,462.0 4,462.0 Investments in group undertakings 944.5 944.5 944.5 944.5 5,434.9 5,595.6 1,268.3 4,462.0 5,730.3 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 5,363.8 5,317.3 5,405.3 5,405.3 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.4 Amounts owed to other customers 5.9 5.6 5.6 5.6 Debt securities in issue Subordinated liabilities 24.6 24.3 25.1 25.1 Perpetual subordinated bonds 15.3 15.0 17.8 17.8 5,411.1 5,363.6 5,455.2 5,455.2 At the reporting date, all derivatives were covered by master netting agreements.
In the absence of such agreements, a grossing up adjustment of 1.6m 2015: 2.4m would be required.
Fair values are determined using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance and observability of the inputs used in making the measurements: Level 1 These are valuation techniques that are based entirely on quoted market prices unadjusted in an actively traded market for identical assets and liabilities that the Group has the ability to access.
Valuation adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments.
Since valuations are based on readily available observable market prices, this makes them most reliable, reduces the need for management judgement and estimation and also reduces the uncertainty associated with determining fair values.
Level 2 These are valuation techniques based on one or more quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are taken from directly or indirectly observable market data.
These include valuation models used to calculate the present value of expected future cash flows and may be employed either when no active market exists or when there are quoted prices available for similar instruments in active markets.
The Group uses LIBOR curves to value its derivatives, however, using OIS curves would not materially change their value.
The fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments incorporates CVA and DVA.
The DVA and CVA take into account the respective credit ratings of the Bank and counterparty and whether the derivative is collateralised or not.
In considering which similar instruments to use, management takes into account the sensitivity of the instrument to changes in market rates and the credit quality of the instrument.
Basis risk derivatives are valued using discounted cash flow models and observable market data and will be sensitive to benchmark interest rate curves.
The fair value of loans and advances to credit institutions, which is predominantly placements with the Bank of England: and investments in group undertakings, is estimated to be their carrying value.
The fair value of amounts owed to retail depositors, credit institutions and other customers, together with the Groups subordinated liabilities and perpetual subordinated bonds is estimated using discounted cash flow techniques, applying the rates that are offered for deposits of similar maturities and terms.
The fair value of deposits payable on demand is the amount payable at the reporting date.
154 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 35.
Risk management and financial institutions continued Level 3 These are valuation techniques for which any one or more significant input is not based on observable market data and the unobservable inputs have a significant effect on the instruments fair value.
Valuation models that employ significant unobservable inputs require a higher degree of management judgement and estimation in determining the fair value.
Management judgement and estimation are usually required for the selection of the appropriate valuation model to be used, determination of expected future cash flows on the financial instruments being valued, determination of the probability of counterparty default and prepayments, determination of expected volatilities and correlations and selection of appropriate discount rates.
Valuation techniques for level 3 instruments may include net present value models, comparison to similar instruments with observable prices, Black-Scholes and other methods.
As disclosed in the tables above, financial instruments with fair value measured at level 3 include loans and advances to customers and debt securities in issue.
Neither loans to customers nor debt securities in issue are measured at fair value in the statement of financial position.
Loans to customers belong to this level because their valuation uses unobservable inputs on collectability rates and redemption profiles.
Their fair value is calculated using modelled receipts of interest and principal which are discounted at market rates.
Debt securities in issue are classified as level 3 because their principal is repaid using the cash flows from the underlying securitised mortgages, which in turn use the same unobservable inputs on collectability rates and redemption profiles.
The fair value of issued debt securities is calculated using modelled payments of interest and principal discounted at market rates for similar instruments.
Pension scheme Defined contribution scheme The amount charged to profit or loss in respect of contributions to the Groups defined contribution and stakeholder pension arrangements is the contribution payable in the period.
The total pension cost in the year amounted to 1.1m 2015: 1.1m.
Defined benefit scheme KRBS operated a defined benefit pension scheme the Scheme funded by the payment of contributions to a separately administered fund for nine retired members.
The Societys Board decided to close the Scheme with effect from 31 December 2001 and introduced a new defined contribution scheme to cover service of Scheme members from 1 January 2002.
The Scheme Trustees, having taken actuarial advice, decided to wind up the Scheme rather than continue to operate it on a paid up basis.
The winding up is largely complete.
As at 31 December 2016 the liability to remaining members is 2k 31 December 2015: 2k matched by Scheme assets.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 155 37.
Capital management The Group is governed by its capital management policy.
The objectives of the Banks capital management policy are to efficiently manage the capital base to optimise shareholder returns whilst maintaining capital adequacy and satisfying key stakeholders such as customers and regulators.
The Banks prime objectives in relation to the management of capital are to comply with the requirements set out by the PRA, the Banks primary prudential supervisor, to provide a sufficient capital base to cover business risks and support future business development.
Capital management is based on the three pillars of Basel II.
Under Pillar 1, the Bank calculates its minimum capital requirements based on 8% of risk weighted assets.
The PRA then applies a multiplier to this amount to cover risks under Pillar 2 of Basel II and generates an individual capital guidance ICG.
As instructed by the PRA, the Bank manages and reports its capital on a solo consolidated basis and hence the Banks capital position is not disclosed separately.
The Groups Pillar 1 capital information is presented in this note.
To comply with Pillar 2, the Group completes an annual selfassessment of risks known as the internal capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP reviewed by the PRA.
Pillar 3 requires firms to publish a set of disclosures which allow market participants to assess information on that firms capital, risk exposures and risk assessment process.
The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures can be found on the Groups website.
On 1 January 2014, a new set of rules, Basel III came into force through the Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRDIV.
Basel III complements and enhances Basel I and II with additional safety measures.
Basel III changed definitions of regulatory capital, introduced new capital buffers and liquidity ratios, and modified the way regulatory capital is calculated.
The ultimate responsibility for capital adequacy rests with the Board of Directors.
The Banks ALCO, which consists of the CEO, CFOand other senior executives, is responsible for the management of the capital process including approving policy, overseeing internal controls and setting internal limits over capital ratios.
The Bank actively manages its capital position and reports this on a regular basis to senior management via the ALCO and other governance committees.
Capital requirements are included within budgets, reforecast and strategic plans with initiatives being executed against this plan.
During the period the Group complied with the capital requirements set out by the PRA.
As at As at 31-Dec-16 31-Dec-15 m m Common equity tier 1 capital Called up share capital 2.4 2.4 Share premium, capital contribution and share-based payment reserve 166.0 164.4 1 Retained earnings 217.0 122.9 Transfer reserve 12.8 12.8 Other reserves 0.1 Deductions from common equity tier 1 capital Intangible assets 4.7 2.9 Deferred tax asset 2.3 1.9 Common equity tier 1 capital 365.6 272.0 Additional tier 1 capital Total tier 1 capital 365.6 272.0 Tier 2 capital Subordinated debt and PSBs 48.5 50.6 Collective provisions 1.6 9.1 Deductions from tier 2 capital 2.0 3.0 Total tier 2 capital 48.1 56.7 Other regulatory adjustments Total regulatory capital 413.7 328.7 Risk weighted assets unaudited 2,743.0 2,339.5 1.
Within retained earnings, foreseeable dividends in the period are deducted in-line with the Groups dividend policy The Bank has solo consolidation waivers for most of its subsidiaries.
The impact of this has been included in the above table.
156 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 38.
Operating segments The Group operates under three segments: 1.
BTL SME: secured lending on property for investment and commercial purposes, 2.
Residential mortgages: lending to customers who live in their own homes, secured either via first or second charges against the residential home, and 3.
Personal Loans: unsecured lending, which currently comprises solely the acquisition of the former Northern Rock performing consumer finance portfolio of c. 70,000 customers from UK Asset Resolution in 2013.
The financial position and results of operations of the above segments are summarised below: Residential Personal 1 BTL SME mortgages loans Central Total Year ended 31-Dec-16 m m m m m Balances at the reporting date Gross loans and advances to customers 4,094.9 1,859.9 9.4 5,964.2 Provision for impairment losses on loans and advances 16.9 7.8 0.3 25.0 Loans and advances to customers 4,078.0 1,852.1 9.1 5,939.2 Capital expenditure 5.3 2.4 7.7 Profit or loss for the period Net interest income 132.0 71.4 3.2 206.6 Other income expense 0.3 4.7 0.8 5.2 Total income 132.3 66.7 2.4 201.4 Impairment losses gains 2.1 7.2 0.3 9.0 Contribution to profit 130.2 59.5 2.7 192.4 Operating expenses 53.7 FSCS and other provisions 0.5 Exceptional items 24.9 Profit before taxation 163.1 Taxation 42.2 Profit for the year 120.9 Residential 1 BTL SME mortgages Personal loans Central Total Year ended 31-Dec-15 m m m m m Balances at the reporting date Gross loans and advances to customers 3,105.5 2,007.1 49.5 5,162.1 Provision for impairment losses on loans and advances 17.7 2.2 7.4 27.3 Loans and advances to customers 3,087.8 2,004.9 42.1 5,134.8 Capital expenditure 5.5 3.6 9.1 Profit or loss for the year Net interest income 95.2 69.0 5.6 169.8 Other income expense 0.6 5.9 1.4 0.6 7.3 Total income 94.6 63.1 4.2 0.6 162.5 Impairment losses 5.3 2.4 2.9 10.6 Contribution to profit 89.3 60.7 1.3 0.6 151.9 Operating expenses 41.1 FSCS and other provisions 3.4 Exceptional items 2.1 Profit before taxation 105.3 Taxation 21.2 Profit for the year 84.1 1.
Other income in the central segment represents gains on sales of investment securities Strategic report Financial statements Governance 157 39.
Country by country reporting Country by Country Reporting CBCR was introduced through Article 89 of CRD IV, aimed at the banking and capital markets industry.
From 1 January 2015, all institutions within the scope of CRD IV should publish annually, on a consolidated basis, by country where they have an establishment: a their name, nature of activities and geographic location b number of employees c their turnover d pre-tax profit or loss e corporation tax paid, and f any public subsidies received The ongoing reporting deadline is 31 December each year, starting from 31 December 2015, and disclosures should relate to the most recently ended accounting period.
The name, nature of activities and geographic location of the Groups companies are presented below: Jurisdiction Country Name Activities 1 UK England OneSavings Bank Plc Easioption Ltd Guernsey Home Loans Ltd Heritable Development Finance Ltd Interbay Group Holdings Ltd Jersey Home Loans Ltd Prestige Finance Ltd Cavenham Financial Services Ltd Reliance Property Loans Ltd Rochester Mortgages Limited Commercial banking 5D Finance Ltd 5D Lending Ltd Interbay Funding Ltd Interbay Financial I Ltd Interbay Financial II Ltd Interbay Holdings Ltd Interbay ML Ltd Guernsey Guernsey Home Loans Ltd Guernsey Jersey Jersey Home Loans Ltd Jersey 2 India India OSB India Private Ltd Back office processing 1.
Guernsey Home Loans Ltd Guernsey and Jersey Home Loans Ltd Jersey are incorporated in Guernsey and Jersey respectively but are considered to be located in the UK as they have no employees, are tax resident and centrally managed and controlled in the UK 2.
The Group had two Indian subsidiaries, Easioption BPO Services Private Ltd and Easiprocess Private Ltd, providing back office processing and earning a management fee from OneSavings Bank plc.
During 2015, they merged into one entity, OSB India Private Ltd 158 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 39.
Country by country reporting continued Other disclosures required by the CBCR directive are provided below: 2 2016 UK India Consolidation Total Average number of employees 431 243 674 1 Turnover, m 201.2 3.9 3.7 201.4 Profit loss before tax, m 162.9 1.0 0.8 163.1 Corporation tax paid, m 29.4 0.2 29.6 2 2015 UK India Consolidation Total Average number of employees 349 195 544 1 Turnover, m 162.4 2.8 2.7 162.5 Profit loss before tax, m 105.2 0.5 0.4 105.3 Corporation tax paid, m 13.5 0.1 13.6 1.
Turnover represents total income before impairment losses, regulatory provisions and operating costs, but after net interest, net commissions and fees, gains and losses on financial instruments and external servicing fees 2.
Relates to a management fee from Indian subsidiaries to OneSavings Bank plc for providing back office processing The tables below reconcile tax charged and tax paid during the year.
UK India Total 2016 m m m Tax charge 41.9 0.3 42.2 Effects of: Other timing differences 0.2 0.2 Tax outside of profit and loss 0.3 0.3 Prior year tax paid during the year 9.2 9.2 Current year tax to be paid after the reporting date 21.6 0.1 21.7 Tax paid 29.4 0.2 29.6 UK India Total 2015 m m m Tax charge 21.1 0.1 21.2 Effects of: Relief for losses brought forward 0.6 0.6 Other timing differences 0.2 0.2 Tax outside of profit and loss 1.2 1.2 Prior year tax paid during the year 2.9 0.3 3.2 Current year tax to be paid after the reporting date 8.8 0.4 9.2 Tax paid 13.6 13.6 40.
Events after the reporting date.
There are no material events after the reporting date.
Controlling party As at 31 December 2016, OSB Holdco Limited had notified the Company that it held 53.78% of the ordinary shares in issue.
The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with OSB Holdco Limited following admission to the London Stock Exchange in June 2014.
A summary of the Relationship Agreement is set out on page 63.
OSB Holdco Limited is a Company controlled by funds advised by J. C. Flowers & Co LLC.
