Strategic report Financial statements Governance 93 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
OTHER INFORMATION Likely future developments in the Company and its subsidiaries are contained in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 47.
Information on financial instruments including financial risk management objectives and policies including the policy for hedging the exposure of the Company and its subsidiaries to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk can be found in the Chief Risk Officers Report on pages 34 to 45.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: JASON ELPHICK Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 16 March 2017
