D2 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 30 September 2016 1.
General Information The Paragon Group of Companies PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 with company number 2336032.
The address of the registered office is 51 Homer Road, Solihull, West Midlands B91 3QJ.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report in section A2.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates.
Adoption of New and Revised Reporting Standards In the preparation of these financial statements no new reporting standards are being applied for the first time.
a Standards not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following International Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases IAS 7 Disclosure initiative amendments IFRS 9 IFRS 9 largely replaces the requirements of the existing financial instruments standard, IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
It addresses the areas of recognition, bases of valuation, income recognition methods, impairment and hedging for financial instruments and will become the standard governing the accounting for Groups Loans to Customers, Borrowings and Derivative Financial Assets and Liabilities.
Only the rules relating to the Groups portfolio hedging arrangements will remain subject to IAS 39, though the International Accounting Standards Board IASB are also working on this area.
This standard will come into force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019, if it is endorsed by the European Union.
The EU has indicated that endorsement may be expected in the final quarter of 2016.
Following the publication of the final version of the Standard by the IASB in July 2014, during the year ended 30 September 2015 the Group began to assess its potential impact.
The Groups preliminary conclusions are that the effect of the replacement of IAS 39 with IFRS 9 in most areas of accounting will not be significant, as many of the current rules are repeated in broadly similar form in the new standard.
In particular the amortised cost basis of valuation and the related EIR method of income recognition remain largely unchanged, and the revisions to hedging are likely to produce a broadly similar result to the present methodology.
PAGE 194 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The area where the new standard is likely to have the most significant impact on the Group is in accounting for impaired loans.
In general terms IFRS 9 will require earlier recognition of losses than IAS 39 does, including some element of loss provision from day one of a loan.
It will also require that firms take account of a wider set of indicators to establish when an impairment provision is required.
During the year the Group has continued its project to ensure it is able to comply with the new requirements.
The project includes finance, analysis and credit risk personnel, is sponsored by the Group Finance Director and reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
Project workflows have included analysis of historic internal and external credit performance metrics, prototype model design and consideration of how external economic factors should affect IFRS 9 impairments.
External consultants and the Groups auditors have been engaged with as appropriate, with initial work focussing on the Groups most significant asset classes.
Work will continue on this project through the year ending 30 September 2017 and a further report on progress will be given in that years Annual Report and Accounts.
IFRS 15 IFRS 15 will replace the standards currently governing the recognition of that part of the Groups income which does not derive directly from financial assets.
If endorsed by the EU, it will come in to force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019, but is not expected to have a material impact on its results or financial position.
IFRS 16 IFRS 16 will replace the standards currently governing the accounting for operating and finance leases.
If endorsed by the EU, it will come in to force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2020, but as the changes from the existing standard, IAS 17, affect principally accounting by lessees the introduction of the new standard is not expected to have a material impact on its results or financial position.
IAS 7 The Disclosure Initiative amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, which will come into force with effect from the Groups financial year ending 30 September 2018 if endorsed by the EU, will require entities to present a note to the accounts describing movements in liabilities arising from financing cash flows.
The Group already presents such a note on a voluntary basis note 64, therefore the introduction of the standard will have minimal impact.
Other standards and interpretations in issue but not effective do not address matters relevant to the Groups accounting and reporting.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 195 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 3.
Accounting Policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
In the financial years reported upon this means that the financial statements accord also with International Financial Reporting Standards as approved by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The particular policies applied are described below.
a Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as required in the valuation of certain financial instruments which are carried at fair value.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements deal with the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 30 September 2016.
Subsidiaries comprise all those entities over which the Group has control.
The results of businesses acquired are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements companies owned by charitable trusts into which loans originated by group companies were sold as part of its warehouse and securitisation funding arrangements, where the Group enjoys the benefits of ownership, are treated as subsidiaries.
Similarly, trusts set up to hold shares in conjunction with the Groups employee share ownership arrangements are also treated as subsidiaries.
c Going concern The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Accounting standards require the directors to assess the Groups ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
In performing this assessment, the directors consider all available information about the future, the possible outcomes of events and changes in conditions and the realistically possible responses to such events and conditions that would be available to them, having regard to the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014.
In order to assess the appropriateness of the going concern basis the directors considered the Groups financial position, the cash flow requirements laid out in its forecasts, its access to funding, the assumptions underlying the forecasts and the potential risks affecting them.
After performing this assessment, the directors concluded that it was appropriate for them to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
d Acquisitions and goodwill Goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, representing the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair values of acquired assets, including intangible assets, is held on the balance sheet and reviewed annually to determine whether any impairment has occurred.
PAGE 196 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Negative goodwill is written off as it arises.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to combinations taking place before its transition date to IFRS 1 October 2004.
Therefore any goodwill which was written off to reserves under UK GAAP will not be charged or credited to the profit and loss account on any future disposal of the business to which it relates.
Contingent consideration arising on acquisitions is first recognised in the accounts at its fair value at the acquisition date and subsequently revalued at each accounting date until it falls due for payment or the final amount is otherwise determined.
e Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise purchased computer software and other intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
Purchased computer software is capitalised where it has a sufficiently enduring nature and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate of 25% per annum.
Other intangible assets acquired in business combinations include brands and business networks and are capitalised in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Such assets are stated at attributed cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate determined at the point of acquisition.
f Leases Leases are accounted for as operating or finance leases in accordance with IAS 17 Leases.
A finance lease is deemed to be one which transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset concerned.
Any other lease is an operating lease.
Rental income and costs under operating leases are credited or charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Assets held for letting under operating leases are depreciated in equal annual instalments to their estimated residual value over the life of the related lease.
This depreciation is deducted in arriving at net lease income and is shown in note 15.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed by management and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Depreciation on operating assets is provided on cost in equal annual instalments over the lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold premises 2% per annum Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease Computer hardware 25% per annum Furniture, fixtures and office equipment 15% per annum Company motor vehicles 25% per annum The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 197 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS h Investments in subsidiaries The Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less provision for impairment.
i Loans to customers Loans to customers are considered to be loans and receivables as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
They are therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
Loans advanced are valued at inception at the initial advance amount, which is the fair value at that time, inclusive of procuration fees paid to brokers or other business providers and less initial fees paid by the customer.
Loans acquired from third parties are initially valued at the purchase consideration paid or payable.
Thereafter all loans to customers are valued at this initial amount less the cumulative amortisation calculated using the EIR method.
The loan balances are then reduced where necessary by a provision for balances which are considered to be impaired.
The EIR method spreads the expected net income arising from a loan over its expected life.
The EIR is that rate of interest which, at inception, exactly discounts the future cash payments and receipts arising from the loan to the initial carrying amount.
j Finance lease receivables Finance lease receivables are included within Loans to Customers at the total amount receivable less interest not yet accrued, unamortised commissions and provision for impairment.
Income from finance lease contracts is accounted for on the actuarial basis.
k Impairment of loans and receivables Loans and receivables are reviewed for indications of possible impairment throughout the year and at each balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 39.
Where loans exhibit objective evidence of impairment a loss event the carrying value of the loans is reduced to the net present value of their expected future cash flows, including the value of the potential realisation of any security net of sales costs discounted at the original EIR.
Within its buy-to-let portfolio the Group utilises a receiver of rent process, whereby the receiver stands between the landlord and tenant and will determine an appropriate strategy for dealing with any delinquency.
This strategy may involve the immediate sale of any underlying security or the short or long-term letting of the property to cover arrears and principal shortfalls.
Properties in receivership are either returned to their landlord owners or sold.
Loss events reflect both loans that display delinquency in contractual payments of principal or interest or, for buy-to-let loans in receivership but up to date at the balance sheet date, properties where the receiver adopts a sale strategy, where a shortfall may or may not arise.
In addition to loans where loss events are evident, loans are also assessed collectively, grouped by risk characteristics and account is taken of any impairment arising due to events which are believed to have taken place but have not been specifically identified at the balance sheet date.
Collective impairment provisions are calculated for each key portfolio based on recent historical performance, with adjustments for expected changes in losses based on managements judgement.
For loan portfolios acquired at a discount, the discounts take account of future expected impairments.
An impairment charge is only recognised in the income statement if the total receipts from an acquired portfolio are below the original purchase price.
Changes to expected cash flows from acquired portfolios are reflected by discounting the future expected cash flows by the original effective interest rate, with any change from the prevailing carrying value being recognised in the income statement.
PAGE 198 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS For financial accounting purposes provisions for impairments of loans to customers when first recognised in the income statement are held in an allowance account.
These balances are released to offset against the gross value of the loan when it is written off to profit and loss on the administration system.
After this point a salvage balance may be held in respect of any further recoveries expected on the loan.
l Investments in structured entities Investments in structured entities are intended to be held to maturity and are therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
The return from such investments is calculated on the EIR basis.
m Amounts owed by or to group companies In the accounts of the Company balances owed by or to other group companies are carried at the current amount outstanding less any provision.
Where balances owing between group companies fall within the definition of either financial assets or financial liabilities given in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation they are classified as Loans and Receivables or Other financial liabilities, respectively.
n Short term investments Short term investments are held as part of the liquidity requirement of Paragon Bank PLC.
As such they are designated as Available for Sale, as defined by IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are consequently measured at their fair value which corresponds to their market value at the balance sheet date.
o Cash and cash equivalents Balances shown as cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise demand deposits and short-term deposits with banks with initial maturities of not more than 90 days.
p Own shares Shares in The Paragon Group of Companies PLC held in treasury or by the trustees of the Groups employee share ownership plans are shown on the balance sheet as a deduction in arriving at total equity.
Own shares are stated at cost.
q Taxation The charge for taxation represents the expected UK corporation tax and other income taxes arising from the Groups profit for the year.
This consists of the current tax which will be shown in tax returns for the year and tax deferred because of temporary differences.
This in general, represents the tax impact of items recorded in the current year but which will impact tax returns for periods other than the one in which they are included in the financial statements.
The Group holds a provision for uncertain tax positions at the balance sheet date based on a global assessment of the expected amount that will ultimately be payable.
Tax relating to items taken directly to equity is also taken directly to equity.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 199 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS r Retail deposits Retail deposits are carried in the balance sheet on the amortised cost basis.
The initial fair value recognised represents the cash amount received from the customer.
Interest payable to the customer is expensed to the income statement as interest payable over the deposit term on an EIR basis.
s Borrowings Borrowings are carried in the balance sheet on the amortised cost basis.
The initial value recognised includes the principal amount received less any discount on issue or costs of issuance.
Interest and all other costs of the funding are expensed to the income statement as interest payable over the term of the borrowing on an EIR basis.
t Derivative financial instruments Derivative instruments utilised by the Group comprise currency swap, interest rate swap and interest rate option agreements.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of the existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
The Group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
All derivatives are carried in the balance sheet at fair value, as assets where the value is positive or as liabilities where the value is negative.
Fair value is based on market prices, where a market exists.
If there is no active market, fair value is calculated using present value models which incorporate assumptions based on market conditions and are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement, except where such amounts are permitted to be taken to equity as part of the accounting for a cash flow hedge.
u Hedging For all hedges, the Group documents, at inception, the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management strategy and objectives for undertaking the transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging arrangements put in place are considered to be highly effective as defined by IAS 39.
For a fair value hedge, as long as the hedging relationship is deemed highly effective and meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39, any gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in income can be offset against the fair value loss or gain arising from the hedged item for the hedged risk.
For macro hedges hedges of interest rate risk for a portfolio of loan assets or retail deposit liabilities this fair value adjustment is disclosed in the balance sheet alongside the hedged item, for other hedges the adjustment is made to the carrying value of the hedged asset or liability.
Only the net ineffectiveness of the hedge is charged or credited to income.
Where a fair value hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the fair value adjustment is amortised over the remaining term of the underlying item.
Where a derivative is used to hedge the variability of cash flows of an asset or liability, it may be designated as a cash flow hedge so long as this relationship meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39.
For such an instrument the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is taken initially to equity, with the ineffective part taken to profit or loss.
PAGE 200 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The amount taken to equity is released to the income statement at the same time as the hedged item affects the income statement.
Where a cash flow hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the amount taken to equity will remain there until the hedged transaction occurs, or is no longer highly probable.
v Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on temporary differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that they will be recovered.
As required by IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to take account of the expected timing of realisation.
w Retirement benefit obligations The expected cost of providing pensions within the funded defined benefit scheme, determined on the basis of annual valuations by professionally qualified actuaries using the projected unit method, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and do not form part of the result for the period, being recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets at the balance sheet date.
The expected financing cost of the deficit, as estimated at the beginning of the period is recognised in the result for the period within interest payable.
Any variances against the estimated amount in the year form part of the actuarial gain or loss.
The charge to the income statement for providing pensions under defined contribution pension schemes is equal to the contributions payable to such schemes for the year.
x Revenue The revenue of the Group comprises interest receivable and similar charges and other income.
The accounting policy for the recognition of each element of revenue is described separately within these accounting policies.
y Fee and commission income Other income includes: Administration fees charged to borrowers, which are credited when the related service is performed Fees charged to third parties for account administration services, which are credited as those services are performed Commissions receivable on the sale of insurances, which are taken to profit at the point at which the Group becomes unconditionally entitled to the income Maintenance income charged as part of the Groups contract hire arrangements which is recognised as the services are provided.
Costs of these services are deducted in other income: and Broker fees receivable on the arrangement of loans funded by third parties, which are taken to profit at the point of completion of the related loan The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 201 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS z Share based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share based Payments, the fair value at the date of grant of awards to be made in respect of options and shares granted under the terms of the Groups various share based employee incentive arrangements is charged to the profit and loss account over the period between the date of grant and the vesting date.
National Insurance on share based payments is accrued over the vesting period, based on the share price at the balance sheet date.
Where the allowable cost of share based awards for tax purposes is greater than the cost determined in accordance with IFRS 2, the tax effect of the excess is taken to reserves.
aa Dividends In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends payable on ordinary shares are recognised in equity once they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date, but before the authorisation of the financial statements remain within shareholders funds.
bb Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions, assets and liabilities are accounted for in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The functional currency of the Group is the pound sterling.
Transactions which are not denominated in sterling are translated into sterling at the spot rate of exchange on the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities which are not denominated in sterling are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on retranslation are included in interest payable or interest receivable depending on whether the underlying instrument is an asset or a liability, except where deferred in equity in accordance with the cash flow hedging provisions of IAS 39. cc Segmental reporting The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described above for the Group as a whole.
Costs attributed to each segment represent the direct costs incurred by the segment operations and an allocation of the costs of areas of the business which serve all segments.
Such allocations are weighted by the value of loan assets in each segment, adjusted for the relative effort involved in the administration of each asset class.
PAGE 202 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 4.
Fair Values of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires that where assets are measured at fair value these measurements should be classified using a fair value hierarchy reflecting the inputs used, and defines three levels.
Level 1 measurements are unadjusted market prices Level 2 measurements are derived from observable data, such as market prices or rates Level 3 measurements rely on significant inputs which are not derived from observable data As quoted prices are not available for level 2 and 3 measurements, the valuation is derived from cash flow models based, where possible, on independently sourced parameters.
The accuracy of the calculation would therefore be affected by unexpected market movements or other variances in the operation of the models or the assumptions used.
The Group had no financial assets or liabilities in the year ended 30 September 2016 or the year ended 30 September 2015 valued using level 3 measurements.
The Group has not reclassified any of its measurements during the year.
The methods by which fair value is established for each class of financial assets and liabilities is set out below.
a Assets and liabilities carried at fair value Derivative financial assets and liabilities Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair values in the accounts.
The Group uses a number of techniques to determine the fair values of its derivative assets and liabilities, for which observable prices in active markets are not available.
These are principally present value calculations based on estimated future cash flows arising from the instruments, discounted using a risk adjusted interest rate.
The principal inputs to these valuation models are LIBOR benchmark interest rates for the currencies in which the instruments are denominated, sterling, euros and dollars.
The cross currency basis swaps have a notional principal related to the outstanding currency borrowings and therefore the estimated rate of repayment of these notes also affects the valuation of the swaps.
In order to determine the fair values the management applies valuation adjustments to observed data where that data would not fully reflect the attributes of the instrument being valued, such as particular contractual features or the identity of the counterparty.
The management reviews the models used on an ongoing basis to ensure that the valuations produced are reasonable and reflect all relevant factors.
These valuations are based on market information and they are therefore classified as level 2 measurements.
Details of these assets are given in note 39.
Short term investments The short term investments described in note 41 are freely traded securities for which a market price quotation is available and are classified as level 1 measurements.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 203 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b Assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost Cash, bank loans and securitisation borrowings The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and overdrafts and asset backed loan notes, which are carried at amortised cost are considered to be not materially different from their book values.
In arriving at that conclusion market inputs have been considered but because all the assets mature within three months of the year end and the interest rates charged on financial liabilities reset to market rates on a quarterly basis, little difference arises.
This also applies to the parent companys loans to its subsidiaries.
While the Groups asset backed loan notes are listed, the quoted prices for an individual note may not be indicative of the fair value of the issue as a whole, due to the specialised nature of the market in such instruments and the limited number of investors participating in it and an adjustment is required.
As these valuation exercises are not wholly market based they are considered to be level 2 measurements.
Corporate debt The Groups retail and corporate bonds are listed on the London Stock Exchange and there is presently a reasonably liquid market in the instruments.
It is therefore appropriate to consider that the market price of these borrowings constitutes a fair value.
As this valuation is based on a market price, it is considered to be a level 1 measurement.
Retail deposits To assess the likely fair value of the Groups retail deposit liabilities, the directors have considered the estimated cash flows expected to arise based on a mixture of market based inputs, such as rates and pricing and non-market based inputs such as redemption rates.
Given the mixture of observable and non-observable inputs, these are considered to be level 2 measurements.
Loan assets To assess the likely fair value of the Groups loan assets in the absence of a liquid market, the directors have considered the estimated cash flows expected to arise from the Groups investments in its loans to customers based on a mixture of market based inputs, such as rates and pricing and non-market based inputs such as redemption rates.
Given the mixture of observable and non-observable inputs these are considered to be level 2 measurements.
PAGE 204 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The fair values for financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost, other than those where carrying values are so low that any difference would be immaterial, determined in accordance with the methodologies set out above is summarised below.
Critical Accounting Estimates Certain of the balances reported in the financial statements are based wholly or in part on estimates or assumptions made by the directors.
There is, therefore, a potential risk that they may be subject to change in future periods.
The most significant of these are: a Impairment losses on loans to customers Impairment losses on loans are calculated based on statistical models, applied to the present status performance and management strategy for the loans concerned.
The key assumptions in the models relate to estimates of future cash flows from customers accounts, their timing and, for secured accounts, the expected proceeds from the realisation of the property or other charged assets.
These key assumptions are based on observed data from historical patterns and are updated regularly based on new data as it becomes available.
In addition, the directors consider how appropriate past trends and patterns might be in the current economic situation and make any adjustments they believe are necessary to reflect current conditions.
The accuracy of the impairment calculations would therefore be affected by unexpected changes to the economic situation, variances between the models used and the actual results, or assumptions which differ from the actual outcomes.
In particular, if the impact of economic factors such as employment levels on customers is worse than is implicit in the model then the number of accounts requiring provision might be greater than suggested by the model, while falls in house prices, over and above any assumed by the model might increase the provision required in respect of accounts currently provided.
Similarly, if the account management approach assumed in the modelling cannot be adopted the provision required may be different.
To illustrate this the impairment provisions were recalculated by changing one factor in the calculation and keeping all others at their current levels.
This exercise indicated that: Adopting a sale strategy for 5% of currently let buy-to-let properties with a receiver of rent in place would increase impairment provisions by 2.6m 5% of receiver of rent properties currently vacant or for sale becoming fully performing would reduce impairment provisions by 0.4m A 10% reduction in house prices would increase impairment provisions across the first mortgage assets by 3.0m, while a 10% increase would reduce impairment provisions by 2.5m A reduction in cash flows from receiver of rent properties of 10% would increase impairment provision by 0.2m It should be noted that all of these changes would, in reality be interrelated so examining them singly may not give reliable guidance to future behaviour.
PAGE 206 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b Effective interest rates In order to determine the EIR applicable to loans and borrowings an estimate must be made of the expected life of each loan and hence the cash flows relating thereto.
For purchased accounts this will involve estimating the likely future performance of the accounts at the time of acquisition.
These estimates are based on historical data and reviewed regularly.
For purchased accounts historical data obtained from the vendor will be examined.
The accuracy of the EIR applied would therefore be compromised by any differences between actual repayment profiles and those predicted, which in turn would depend directly or indirectly on customer behaviour.
This exercise indicated that: A reduction or increase of the assumed average lives of loans secured on residential property by three months would reduce or increase balance sheet assets by 1.6m A reduction or increase in estimated cash flows from purchased loan assets of 5% would reduce or increase balance sheet assets by 14.5m An increase of one year in the estimated lives of FRN borrowings would increase balance sheet liabilities by 1.0m As any of these changes would, in reality, be accompanied by movements in other factors, actual outcomes may differ from these estimates.
c Impairment of goodwill The carrying value of the goodwill recognised on the Groups acquisition of PBAF and Premier is verified by use of an impairment test based on the projected cash flows for the cash generating unit, based on management forecasts and other assumptions described in note 29, including a discount factor.
The accuracy of this impairment calculation would therefore be compromised by any differences between these forecasts and the levels of business activity that the cash generating unit is able to achieve in practice.
This test will also be affected by the accuracy of the discount factor used.
The sensitivity of the impairment test to reasonably possible movements in these assumptions is discussed in note 29. d Retirement benefits The present value of the retirement benefit obligation is derived from an actuarial calculation which rests on a number of assumptions relating to inflation, long-term return on investments and mortality.
Where actual conditions differ from those assumed the ultimate value of the obligation would be different.
Information on the sensitivity of the valuation to the various assumptions is given in note 56.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 207 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 6.
Capital Management The Groups objectives in managing capital are: To ensure that the Group has sufficient capital to meet its operational requirements and strategic objectives To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders To provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk To ensure that sufficient regulatory capital is available to meet any externally imposed requirements The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk, availability and cost.
The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets, having particular regard to the relative costs and availability of debt and equity finance at any given time.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, issue or redeem other capital instruments, such as retail or corporate bonds, or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group is subject to regulatory capital rules imposed by the PRA on a consolidated basis as a group containing an authorised bank.
This is discussed further below.
a Dividend policy The Groups dividend policy, announced in 2012 has been to target a dividend cover ratio of between 3.0 and 3.5 times by the end of this financial year.
The dividend cover ratio had reached 3.2 times in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015 and the target of 3.0 times was achieved in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2016.
The Group has stated its intention to operate a progressive dividend policy, maintaining the three times cover ratio going forward.
The Group considers that it has sufficient cash resources available to pay dividends at this level, and that the parent company has abundant distributable reserves for this purpose.
The most common measure of dividend cover used by financial analysts is based on earnings and dividend per share.
The Group has confirmed that its dividend cover target will be based on this calculation.
The expected level of dividend cover on this basis in respect of the year, subject to the approval of the final dividend at the Annual General Meeting, is shown below.
Note 2016 2015 Earnings per share p 26 40.5 35.5 Proposed dividend per share in respect pf the year p 50 13.5 11.0 Dividend cover times 3.0 3.2 PAGE 208 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b Return on tangible equity RoTE is a measure of an entitys profitability used by investors.
RoTE is defined by the Group by comparing the profit after tax for the year, adjusted for amortisation charged on intangible assets, to the average of the opening and closing equity positions, excluding intangible assets and goodwill.
The Groups consolidated RoTE for the year ended 30 September 2016 is derived as follows: Note 2016 2015 m m Profit for the year 116.0 107.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 17 1.6 1.4 Adjusted profit 117.6 108.5 Divided by Opening equity 969.5 947.1 Opening intangible assets 28 7.7 7.9 Opening tangible equity 961.8 939.2 Closing equity 969.5 969.5 Closing intangible assets 28 105.4 7.7 Closing tangible equity 864.1 961.8 Average tangible equity 913.0 950.5 Return on Tangible Equity 12.9% 11.4% This table is not subject to audit The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 209 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS c Gearing The Board of Directors regularly review the proportion of working capital represented by debt and equity.
Net debt is calculated as total debt, other than securitised and warehouse debt, valued at principal value, less free cash up to a maximum of the total debt.
Adjusted equity comprises all components of equity share capital, share premium, capital redemption reserve, retained earnings, and revaluation surplus other than amounts recognised in equity relating to cash flow hedges.
The debt and equity amounts at 30 September 2016 and at 30 September 2015 were as follows: Note 2016 2015 m m Debt Corporate bond 55 260.0 110.0 Retail bonds 55 297.5 297.5 Bank overdraft 53 1.2 0.7 Less: Applicable free cash 42 366.5 199.9 Net debt 192.2 208.3 Equity Total equity 969.5 969.5 Less: cash flow hedging reserve 48 2.1 1.9 Adjusted equity 967.4 971.4 Total working capital 1,159.6 1,179.7 Debt 16.6% 17.7% Equity 83.4% 82.3% Total working capital 100.0% 100.0% The movements in the proportion of working capital represented by debt and equity during the year ended 30 September 2016 resulted primarily from the operation of the policy described above.
PAGE 210 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS d Regulatory capital The Group is subject to supervision by the PRA on a consolidated basis, as a group containing an authorised bank.
As part of this supervision the regulator will issue individual capital guidance setting an amount of regulatory capital, defined under the international Basel III rules, implemented through the CRD IV, which the Group is required to hold relative to its risk weighted assets in order to safeguard depositors against the risk of losses being incurred by the Group.
The Groups regulatory capital is monitored by the Board of Directors, its Risk and Compliance Committee and the Asset and Liability Committee, who ensure that appropriate action is taken to ensure compliance with the regulators requirements.
The future regulatory capital requirement is also considered as part of the Groups forecasting and strategic planning process.
At 30 September 2016 the Groups regulatory capital of 1,005.6m 2015: 976.3m was comfortably in excess of that required by the regulator.
The Groups regulatory capital differs from its equity as certain adjustments are required by the regulator.
A reconciliation of the Groups equity to its regulatory capital determined in accordance with CRD IV at 30 September 2016 is set out below.
Note 2016 2015 m m Total equity 969.5 969.5 Deductions Proposed final dividend 50 25.5 21.8 Intangible assets 28 105.4 7.7 Deferred tax adjustment - 0.3 Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital 838.6 939.7 Other tier 1 capital - - Total Tier 1 capital 838.6 939.7 Corporate bond 55 260.0 110.0 Less: amortisation adjustment 97.8 75.8 162.2 34.2 Collectively assessed credit impairment allowances 4.8 2.4 Total Tier 2 capital 167.0 36.6 Total regulatory capital 1,005.6 976.3 Deferred tax assets in subsidiary companies are required to be deducted from regulatory capital.
This balance is offset against the deferred tax liability in the consolidated accounts.
When tier 2 capital instruments have less than five years to maturity the amount eligible as regulatory capital reduces by 20% per annum.
As the Groups 110.0m Corporate Bond matures in 2017, this adjustment is required in respect of this instrument.
No such adjustment is required in respect of the Corporate Bond issued in the year, which matures in 2026.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 211 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The total exposure amount calculated under the CRD IV framework against which this capital is held, and the proportion of these assets it represents, are calculated as shown below.
2016 2015 m m Credit risk Balance sheet assets 4,728.4 4,426.8 Off balance sheet 51.5 88.7 Total credit risk 4,779.9 4,515.5 Operational risk 445.7 363.6 Market risk - - Other 61.9 50.2 Total exposure amount 5,287.5 4,929.3 Solvency ratios % % CET1 15.9 19.1 Total regulatory capital 19.0 19.8 This table is not subject to Audit The CRD IV risk weightings for credit risk exposures are calculated using the Standardised Approach, while the Basic Indicator Approach for operational risk is used.
The table below shows the calculation of the leverage ratio, based on the consolidated balance sheet assets adjusted as shown.
The PRA has set a minimum leverage ratio of 3.0% for UK firms.
Note 2016 2015 m m Total balance sheet assets 13,518.4 11,878.9 Less: Derivative assets 39 1,366.4 660.1 On-balance sheet items 12,152.0 11,218.8 Less: Intangible assets 28 105.4 7.7 Total on balance sheet exposures 12,046.6 11,211.1 Derivative assets 39 1,366.4 660.1 Potential future exposure on derivatives 68.6 69.1 Total derivative exposures 1,435.0 729.2 Post offer pipeline at gross notional amount 273.8 482.3 Adjustment to convert to credit equivalent amounts 136.9 241.1 Off balance sheet items 136.9 241.2 Tier 1 capital 838.6 939.7 Total leverage exposure 13,618.5 12,181.5 Basel III leverage ratio 6.2% 7.7% This table is not subject to audit The regulatory capital disclosures in these financial statements relate only to the consolidated position for the Group.
Individual entities within the Group are also subject to supervision on a standalone basis.
All such entities complied with the requirements to which they were subject during the year.
PAGE 212 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 7.
Financial Risk Management The principal financial risks arising from the Groups normal business activities are credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and currency risk.
The Board of Directors has a Risk and Compliance Committee, established in 2014, consisting of the Chairman and the non-executive directors which is responsible for risk management.
The Credit Committee and the ALCO are executive sub-committees of the Risk and Compliance Committee which review and agree policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
The Corporate Governance Statement in Section B3 which is not subject to audit provides further detail on the operations of these committees.
The financial risk management policies have remained unchanged throughout the year and since the year end.
The position disclosed below is materially similar to that existing throughout the year.
Paragon Bank has its own risk management structure, which also covers the asset finance operations, which is overseen by the Group committees.
Use of derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments for risk management purposes.
Such instruments are contracts with counterparties and are used only to reduce or eliminate the exposure of the Group to movements in market interest or exchange rates.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken, and hence all of the Groups derivative financial instruments are for commercial hedging purposes only.
These are used to protect the Group from exposures principally arising from fixed rate lending or borrowing and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
Hedge accounting is applied where appropriate, though it should be noted that some derivatives, while forming part of an economic hedge relationship, do not qualify for this accounting treatment under the IAS 39 rules, while in other cases hedge accounting has not been adopted either because natural accounting offsets are expected or because complying with the IAS 39 hedge accounting rules would be particularly onerous.
The Group has designated a number of derivatives as fair value hedges for accounting purposes.
In particular this treatment is used for: a hedging the interest rate risk of groups of fixed rate prepayable loan assets with interest rate derivatives on a portfolio basis: and b hedging the interest rate risk of groups of fixed rate retail deposits with interest rate derivatives on a portfolio basis.
In both cases the Group believes this solution is the most appropriate as it is consistent with the economic hedging approach taken by the Group to these assets and liabilities.
The Group has also designated cash flow hedging relationships, principally arising from currency borrowings, where a specified foreign exchange basis swap, set up as part of the terms of the borrowing is used.
The Company has no derivative assets or liabilities.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 213 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Credit risk The Groups business objectives rely on maintaining a high-quality customer base and place strong emphasis on good credit management, both at the time of acquiring or underwriting a new loan, where strict lending criteria are applied, and throughout the loans life.
Primary responsibility for credit risk management across the Group lies with the Credit Committee.
The Credit Committee is made up of four senior employees, drawn from financial and risk functions independent of the underwriting process.
It is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
Its key responsibilities include setting and reviewing credit policy, controlling applicant quality, tracking account performance against targets, agreeing product criteria and lending guidelines and monitoring performance and trends.
In order to control credit risk relating to counterparties to the Groups derivative financial instruments, short-term investments and cash deposits, ALCO determines which counterparties the Group will deal with, based on risk appetite parameters agreed by the Board.
It then establishes limits for each counterparty and monitors compliance with those limits.
The assets of the Group and the Company which are subject to credit risk are set out below: Note The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Loans to customers 35 10,737.5 10,062.4 - - Investments in structured entities 38 - 18.1 - - Derivative financial assets 39 1,366.4 660.1 - - Amounts owed by Group companies 40 - - 84.5 141.2 Accrued interest income 40 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.1 CSA assets 40 3.7 0.9 - - Trade debtors 40 2.4 - - - Short term investments 41 7.1 41.1 - - Cash 42 1,237.6 1,056.0 361.3 196.8 Maximum exposure to credit risk 13,355.0 11,839.0 445.9 338.1 While this maximum exposure represents the potential loss which might have to be accounted for by the Group, the terms on which the Groups loan assets are funded, described under Liquidity Risk below, limit the amount of principal repayments on the Groups securitised and warehouse borrowings in cases of capital losses on assets, significantly reducing the effective shareholder value at risk.
PAGE 214 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Loans to customers and other investments in loan assets The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its loans to customers.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk to individual counterparties due to the large number of customers included in the portfolios.
The Groups loan assets at 30 September 2016 are analysed as follows: 2016 2016 2015 2015 m % m % Buy-to-let mortgages 9,621.2 89.6% 9,363.2 93.0% Owner occupied mortgages 19.4 0.2% 47.6 0.5% Total first residential mortgages 9,640.6 89.8% 9,410.8 93.5% Secured loans 526.8 4.9% 387.1 3.9% Loans secured on residential property 10,167.4 94.7% 9,797.9 97.4% Development finance 9.1 0.1% - - Commercial mortgages 2.9 - - - Loans secured on property 10,179.4 94.8% 9,797.9 97.4% Car loans 95.3 0.9% 43.4 0.4% Retail finance loans 0.2 - 0.2 - Other consumer loans 194.9 1.8% 220.9 2.2% Asset finance loans 250.4 2.3% - - Factoring and discounting balances 16.9 0.2% - - Other loans 0.4 - - - Total loans to customers 10,737.5 100.0% 10,062.4 100.0% Other consumer loans include unsecured loans either advanced by Group companies or acquired from their originators at a discount.
The Groups underwriting philosophy is based on a combination of sophisticated individual credit assessment and the automated efficiencies of a scored decision making process.
Information on each applicant is combined with data taken from a credit reference bureau to provide a complete credit picture of the applicant and the borrowing requested.
Key information is validated through a combination of documentation and statistical data which collectively provides evidence of the applicants ability and willingness to pay the amount contracted under the loan agreement.
First mortgages and secured loans are secured by charges over residential properties in England and Wales, or similar Scottish or Northern Irish securities.
Car loans and asset finance loans are effectively secured by the financed asset.
Despite this security, in assessing credit risk, an applicants ability and propensity to repay the loan remain the principal factors in the decision to lend.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 215 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS In considering whether to acquire pools of loan assets or invest in loan portfolios, the Group will undertake a due diligence exercise on the underlying loan accounts.
Such assets are generally not fully performing and are offered at a discount to their current balance.
The Groups procedures may include inspection of original loan documents, verification of security and the examination of the credit status of borrowers.
Current and historic cash flow data will also be examined.
The objective of the exercise is to establish, to a level of confidence similar to that provided by the underwriting process, that the assets will generate sufficient cash flows to recover the Groups investment and generate an appropriate return without exposing the Group to material operational or conduct risks.
An analysis of the indexed loan to value ratio LTV for those loan accounts secured on property by value at 30 September 2016 is set out below.
For acquired accounts the effect of any discount on purchase is allowed for.
PAGE 216 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The number of accounts in arrears by asset class, based on the most commonly quoted definition of arrears for the type of asset, at 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015, compared to the industry averages at those dates published by the CML and the FLA, was: 2016 2015 % % First mortgages Accounts more than three months in arrears Buy-to-let accounts including receiver of rent cases 0.11 0.19 Buy-to-let accounts excluding receiver of rent cases 0.02 0.04 Owner-occupied accounts 3.23 3.55 CML data for mortgage accounts more than three months in arrears Buy-to-let accounts including receiver of rent cases 0.55 0.66 Buy-to-let accounts excluding receiver of rent cases 0.50 0.60 Owner-occupied accounts 1.11 1.27 All mortgages 1.01 1.17 Secured loans Accounts more than two months in arrears 17.15 19.56 FLA data for point of sale hire purchase 12.50 15.40 Car loans Accounts more than two months in arrears 0.30 0.67 FLA data for point of sale hire purchase 1.50 1.20 Asset finance loans Accounts more than two months in arrears 0.82 - FLA data for business lease hire purchase loans 0.70 0.80 Other loans Accounts more than two months in arrears 96.35 94.66 No published industry data for asset classes comparable to the Groups other books has been identified.
Where revised data at 30 September 2016 has been published by the FLA or CML, the comparative industry figures above have been amended.
The Group calculates its headline arrears measure for buy-to-let mortgages, shown above, based on the numbers of accounts three months or more in arrears, including purchased Idem Capital assets, but excluding those cases in possession and receiver of rent cases designated for sale.
This is consistent with the methodology used by the CML in compiling its statistics for the buy-to-let mortgage market as a whole.
The number of accounts in arrears will be higher for closed books such as the owner occupied mortgage book and the retail finance and unsecured loan books than for comparable active ones, as performing accounts pay off their balances, leaving arrears accounts representing a greater proportion of the total.
The improvement in the arrears position for car loans shown above is due to the recommencement of lending in this market, through Paragon Bank, with the new performing cases reducing the overall average.
The figures shown above for secured loans and other loans include purchased portfolios which generally include a high proportion of cases in arrears at the time of purchase and where this level of performance is allowed for in the discount to current balance represented by the purchase price.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 217 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The payment status of the carrying balances of the Groups live loan assets, before provision for impairment, at 30 September 2016 and at 30 September 2015 split between those accounts considered as performing and those included in the population for impairment testing, is shown below.
Balances for immaterial asset classes are not shown.
Asset finance loans below includes other related loan balances.
Fully provided non-live accounts are excluded from the tables below.
Days past due is not a relevant measure for the development finance or invoice discounting businesses, due to their particular contractual arrangements.
First mortgages 2016 2015 m m Not past due 9,528.1 9,274.0 Arrears less than 3 months 82.1 100.8 Performing accounts 9,610.2 9,374.8 Arrears 3 to 6 months 2.4 4.6 Arrears 6 to 12 months 2.8 4.1 Arrears over 12 months 11.0 15.8 Possessions and similar cases 31.1 28.8 Impairment population 47.3 53.3 Total gross balances 9,657.5 9,428.1 Impairment provision on live cases 16.4 15.3 Timing adjustments 0.5 2.0 Carrying balance 9,640.6 9,410.8 Consumer and asset finance Secured loans Car loans Asset finance Total loans m m m m 30 September 2016 Not past due 415.0 92.7 251.6 759.3 Arrears less than 2 months 33.3 3.0 1.5 37.8 Performing accounts 448.3 95.7 253.1 797.1 Arrears 2 to 6 months 20.3 0.2 1.0 21.5 Arrears 6 to 9 months 8.3 - 0.3 8.6 Arrears 9 to 12 months 7.4 - - 7.4 Arrears over 12 months 51.0 0.2 0.4 51.6 Specifically impaired asset finance cases - - 3.3 3.3 Impairment population 87.0 0.4 5.0 92.4 Total gross balances 535.3 96.1 258.1 889.5 Impairment provision on live cases 3.4 0.6 0.5 4.5 Timing adjustments 5.1 0.2 3.9 9.2 Carrying balance 526.8 95.3 253.7 875.8 PAGE 218 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Secured loans Car loans Asset finance Total loans m m m m 30 September 2015 Not past due 265.2 43.3 - 308.5 Arrears less than 2 months 25.7 0.2 - 25.9 Performing accounts 290.9 43.5 - 334.4 Arrears 2 to 6 months 20.2 - - 20.2 Arrears 6 to 9 months 8.9 - - 8.9 Arrears 9 to 12 months 7.4 - - 7.4 Arrears over 12 months 63.5 0.4 - 63.9 Specifically impaired asset finance cases - - - - Impairment population 100.0 0.4 - 100.4 Total gross balances 390.9 43.9 - 434.8 Impairment provision on live cases 5.4 0.5 - 5.9 Timing adjustments 1.6 - - 1.6 Carrying balance 387.1 43.4 - 430.5 Other loans 2016 2015 m m Not past due 4.1 6.7 Arrears less than 1 months 0.3 0.5 Performing accounts 4.4 7.2 Arrears 1 to 3 months 0.4 0.5 Arrears 3 to 6 months 0.7 0.9 Arrears 6 to 12 months 2.3 2.7 Arrears over 12 months 203.5 226.5 Impairment population 206.9 230.6 Total gross balances 211.3 237.8 Impairment provision 16.4 16.9 Timing adjustments - - Carrying balance 194.9 220.9 Arrears in the tables above are based on the contractual payment status of the customers concerned.
Where assets have been purchased by the Idem Capital loan investment business, customers may already have been in arrears at the time of acquisition and an appropriate adjustment made to the consideration paid.
Investments in structured entities represent the Groups contribution made to special purpose vehicle SPV companies established and controlled by third parties to purchase pools of loan assets.
All such investments are denominated in sterling and the underlying loans are made to UK borrowers.
Cash generated by the assets is distributed to investors in accordance with a specified priority of payments.
The Group has no obligation to make further contributions to the SPV companies concerned.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 219 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The management has considered the position of the underlying assets and concluded that they will generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amount of the investment.
In the debt purchase industry, ERC is commonly used as a measure of the value of a portfolio.
This is defined as the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to be received over a specified future period.
In the Groups view, this measure may be suitable for heavily discounted, unsecured, distressed portfolios, but is less applicable for the types of portfolio in which the Group has invested, where cash flows are higher on acquisition, loans may be secured on property and customers may not be in default.
In such cases, the IAS 39 amortised cost balance, at which these assets are carried in the Group balance sheet, provides a better indication of value.
However, to aid comparability the 84 and 120 month ERC values for the Groups purchased assets included in the Idem Capital and Paragon Bank divisions, are set out below, analysed by the balance sheet line on which they appear.
These are derived using the same models and assumptions used in the EIR calculations, but the differing bases of calculation lead to different outcomes.
Derivative financial assets In order to control credit risk relating to counterparties to the Groups derivative financial instruments and cash deposits, ALCO determines which counterparties the Group will deal with, establishes limits for each counterparty and monitors compliance with those limits.
Such counterparties are typically highly rated banks and, for all cash deposits and derivative positions held within the Groups securitisation structures, must comply with criteria set out in the financing arrangements, which are monitored externally.
Where a derivative counterparty fails to meet the required criteria they are obliged under the terms of the instruments to set aside a cash collateral deposit.
The amounts of these cash collateral deposits, which do not form part of the Groups cash position, are given in note 35.
The Groups exposure to credit risk in respect of the counterparties to its derivative financial assets, analysed by their long term credit rating as determined by Fitch is set out below.
2016 2015 m m Carrying value of derivative financial assets Counterparties rated AA- 218.7 91.9 A 58.1 6.2 A 969.2 515.1 BBB 120.4 46.9 Gross exposure 1,366.4 660.1 Collateral amounts posted 1,184.2 753.5 Net exposure 182.2 93.4 PAGE 220 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Trade debtors The Groups trade debtors balance represents principally amounts outstanding on unpaid operating lease obligations in the asset finance business, where similar customer acceptance criteria as are used for finance lease cases apply.
Short term investments The Groups short term investments are held within Paragon Bank and form part of the liquidity buffer it is required to hold by the PRA.
These investments may only be placed in treasury bills and gilts issued by the UK government, or such similar instruments as are permitted by the regulator, and as such the credit risk is judged to be minimal.
Cash and cash equivalents The Groups cash balances are held in sterling at the Bank of England and at highly rated banks in current accounts and as short fixed term deposits and money market placements.
The Group has a large exposures policy to mitigate any concentration risk in respect of its cash deposits.
Credit risk on these balances, and the interest accrued thereon, is considered to be minimal.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group might be unable to satisfy any payment which is required to be made out of cash available to it at the time.
The Group manages the liquidity requirements of its lending operations in two ways.
Within the Paragon Mortgages and Idem Capital divisions, securitisation is used to mitigate its exposure to liquidity risk on its borrowings, ensuring, as far as possible, that the maturities of assets and liabilities are matched Within Paragon Bank, which is funded by the acceptance of retail deposits, liquidity is subject to regulation by the PRA.
This regulation aims to ensure that sufficient liquid assets are held to mitigate the liquidity risk inherent in deposit taking.
The Bank also seeks to manage the maturities of the deposits it accepts and the likely terms of the loans it offers to reduce liquidity risk The Groups originated loan assets, outside Paragon Bank, are principally financed by asset backed loan notes Notes issued through the securitisation process.
In a securitisation an SPV company within the Group will issue Notes secured on a pool of mortgage or other loan assets beneficially owned by the SPV in a public offer.
The Notes have a maturity date later than the final repayment date for any asset in the pool, typically over thirty years from the issue date.
The noteholders are entitled to receive repayment of the Note principal from principal funds generated by the loan assets from time to time, but their right to the repayment of principal is limited to the cash available in the SPV.
Similarly, payment of accrued interest to the noteholders is limited to cash generated within the SPV.
There is no requirement for any Group company other than the issuing SPV to make principal or interest payments in respect of the Notes.
This matching of the maturities of the assets and the related funding substantially reduces the Groups exposure to liquidity risk.
Details of Notes in issue are given in note 55 and the assets backing the Notes are shown in notes 33 and 34.
In each case the Group provides funding to the SPV at inception, subordinated to the Notes, which means that the primary credit risk on the pool assets is retained within the Group.
The Group receives the residual income generated by the assets.
These factors mean that the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets remain with the Group, and hence the loans remain on the Groups balance sheet.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 221 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Cash received from time to time in each SPV is held until the next interest payment date when, following payment of principal, interest and the associated costs of the SPV, the remaining balances become available to the Group.
Cash balances are also held within each SPV to provide credit enhancement for the particular securitisation, allowing interest and principal payments to be made even if some of the loans default.
In order to provide further credit enhancement in certain of the SPVs, specific economic trigger events exist which cause additional cash to be retained in the SPV rather than being transferred to the Group.
While the Group can, if it chooses, contribute additional cash to cover these requirements, it is under no obligation to do so.
No such events occurred in the year ended 30 September 2016 or the year ended 30 September 2015.
Whether any such events in any of the Groups other SPVs arise in the future will depend on the performance of the general economy and its impact on mortgage and loan arrears in each SPV.
However if all of the remaining trigger events occurred, a total of 92.5m of additional cash would be retained in the SPV companies 2015: 90.8m.
The cash balances of the SPV companies are included within the restricted cash balances disclosed in note 42 as securitisation cash.
Newly originated mortgage loans are initially funded by a revolving loan facility or warehouse from the point of their origination until their inclusion in a securitisation transaction.
A warehouse company functions in a similar way to an SPV, except that funds are drawn down as advances are made, repaid when loans are securitised or refinanced by an internal asset sale and may subsequently be redrawn.
On 29 February 2008 the warehouse facility provided to Paragon Second Funding Limited ceased to be available for new drawings and new mortgage lending ceased, although the secured assets held within it at that time continued to be funded.
Repayment of the principal on this warehouse facility is not required unless amounts are realised from the underlying secured assets.
The final repayment date of the facility is later than the final due date of the secured assets it funds.
Mortgage loans advanced since the recommencement of lending in 2010 have been funded through one of four warehouse facilities, which are detailed in note 55.
Each warehouse facility is agreed with an individual bank and is available for drawing and redrawing for a set commitment period, although each has the option to be renewed before the period ends.
After the end of the commitment period the funding will remain in place for a further period until the underlying assets can be sold or refinanced.
Repayment of the principal amount of the facilities is not required unless amounts are realised from the secured assets either through repayment, securitisation or asset sales, even after the end of the period.
There is no further recourse to other assets of the Group in respect of either interest or principal on the borrowings.
The warehouse facilities due for expiry in the period were all renewed on the same or improved terms.
As with the SPVs, the Group provides subordinated funding to the warehouse companies and restricted cash balances are held within them.
Contributions to the subordinated funding are made each time a drawing on the facility concerned is made.
These amounts provide credit enhancement to the warehouse and cover certain fees.
This funding is repaid when assets are securitised or refinanced by an internal asset sale.
The amount of subordinated funding outstanding in the three active warehouse companies at 30 September 2016 was 118.8m 2015: 54.9m.
Further details of the warehouse facilities are given in note 55 and details of the loan assets within the warehouses are given in note 33.
The securitisation process and the terms of the warehouse facilities effectively limit liquidity risk from the funding of the Groups loan assets.
The remaining liquidity risk relates to ensuring that sufficient funding is available to fund the Groups participation in the SPVs, provide capital support for new loans and working capital for the Group.
This responsibility rests with ALCO which makes recommendations for the Groups liquidity policy for Board approval and uses detailed cash flow projections to ensure that an adequate level of liquidity is available at all times.
The final repayment date for all of the securitisation borrowings and the old warehouse borrowing is more than five years from the balance sheet date, the earliest falling due in 2033 and the latest in 2050.
PAGE 222 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The equivalent sterling principal amount outstanding at 30 September 2016 under the SPV and warehouse arrangements, allowing for the effect of the cross currency basis swaps, described under currency risk below, which are net settled with the loan payments, was 8,596.3m 2015: 9,052.1m.
The total sterling amount payable under these arrangements, were these principal amounts to remain outstanding until the final repayment date would be 13,295.5m 2015: 15,157.8m.
As the principal will, as discussed above, reduce as customers repay or redeem their accounts, the cash flow will in practice be far less than this amount.
In February 2013, the Company initiated a Euro Medium Term Note issuance programme, with a maximum issuance of 1,000.0m.
The Company had the ability to issue further notes under the programme within twelve months of its inauguration and it was subsequently renewed for a further twelve months in January 2016 and may be further renewed.
Since that time the Company has issued three fixed rate bonds for a total of 297.5m, with interest rates ranging from 6.000% to 6.125% and maturities ranging from December 2021 to August 2023, the most recent issue of 112.5m being made in August 2015.
The Groups investments in purchased loan portfolios and structured entities are funded from its free cash balances and securitisation borrowings and these investments carry no obligation to make further payments.
They therefore pose no liquidity risk to the Group.
The total undiscounted amounts, inclusive of estimated interest, which would be payable in respect of the Groups, and the Companys, non-securitisation borrowings and retail deposits, should those balances remain outstanding until the contracted repayment date, or the earliest date on which repayment can be required, are set out below.
Contingent Retail Corporate Retail Total liabilities deposits bonds bonds m m m m m a The Group 30 September 2016 Payable in less than one year 1.9 1,036.8 125.0 18.0 1,181.7 Payable in one to two years 2.5 596.0 10.9 18.0 627.4 Payable in two to five years 6.6 312.9 32.6 111.3 463.4 Payable in over five years 5.0 - 204.4 261.6 471.0 16.0 1,945.7 372.9 408.9 2,743.8 30 September 2015 Payable in less than one year - 341.3 4.1 18.0 363.4 Payable in one to two years - 187.8 114.1 18.0 319.9 Payable in two to five years - 206.3 - 54.0 260.3 Payable in over five years - - - 336.9 336.9 - 735.4 118.2 426.9 1,280.5 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 223 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Corporate Retail Total bonds bonds m m m b The Company 30 September 2016 Payable in less than one year 125.0 18.0 143.0 Payable in one to two years 10.9 18.0 28.9 Payable in two to five years 32.6 111.3 143.9 Payable in over five years 204.4 261.6 466.0 372.9 408.9 781.8 30 September 2015 Payable in less than one year 4.1 18.0 22.1 Payable in one to two years 114.1 18.0 132.1 Payable in two to five years - 54.0 54.0 Payable in over five years - 336.9 336.9 118.2 426.9 545.1 Amounts payable in respect of the other accruals and trade creditors shown in note 59 fall due within one year.
The cash flows described above will include those for interest on borrowings accrued at 30 September 2016 disclosed in note 59.
In order to reduce the liquidity risk inherent in the retail deposit balances shown above, which are held by Paragon Bank PLC, its regulator, the PRA requires that it, like other regulated banks, maintains a buffer in the form of liquid assets to ensure it has sufficient available funds at all times to protect against unforeseen circumstances.
The Banks ongoing participation in the Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme FLS is a significant contributor to its liquidity position, reducing its requirement to hold sovereign bonds.
The amount of this buffer is calculated using Individual Liquidity Guidance ILG set by the PRA based on the ILAAP submitted by Paragon Bank.
The ILAAP determines the liquid resources that must be maintained in the Bank based upon stress tests linked to its key liquidity risks and for other purposes specified by the regulator.
At 30 September 2016 the liquidity buffer of High Quality Liquid Assets HQLA comprised the following assets, all held within Paragon Bank.
Note 2016 2015 m m Short term investments 41 7.1 41.1 Balances with central banks 42 315.0 286.0 Total HQLA 322.1 327.1 The above analysis does not include off balance sheet funding of 108.8m 2015: nil in respect of primary liquidity representing short dated UK Treasury bills held as a result of drawings under the FLS.
PAGE 224 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The cash flows which are expected to arise from derivative contracts in place at the year end, estimating future floating rate payments and receipts on the basis of the yield curve at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2016 2015 Total cash Total cash outflow inflow outflow inflow m m On derivative liabilities Payable in less than one year 0.4 - Payable in one to two years 0.4 0.1 Payable in two to five years 0.9 0.3 Payable in over five years 0.5 0.4 2.2 0.8 On derivative assets Payable in less than one year 8.0 5.2 Payable in one to two years 4.1 1.0 Payable in two to five years 2.3 0.1 Payable in over five years 0.5 0.4 14.9 6.5 12.7 5.7 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, the risk that margins will be adversely affected by movements in market interest rates, through its lending, deposit taking and borrowing activities.
As certain of the Groups financial assets and liabilities bear interest at rates which float with market rates and others are fixed, either for a term or for their whole lives, a movement in market rates can change the net interest margin on the Groups activities unless the exposure is managed.
The Group manages this position outside Paragon Bank by maintaining floating rate liabilities and matching these with floating rate assets, by hedging fixed rate assets and liabilities using interest rate swap or cap agreements and by maintaining a proportion of fixed rate liabilities.
Separately, within Paragon Bank, where there are fixed and floating rate loan assets, together with fixed and floating rate savings deposit liabilities mismatches are managed using interest rate swap agreements to ensure any exposure remains appropriate to the Banks risk appetite.
The fixed rate asset finance assets within PBAF form part of the Banks interest risk management.
The Groups ALCO monitors the interest rate risk exposure on the Groups loan assets and asset backed loan notes and ensures compliance with the requirements of the trustees in respect of the Groups securitisations and the terms of other borrowings.
Paragon Bank has its own ALCO which focuses on the risks within the Bank, including the retail deposit position, although the Groups committee maintains oversight.
The rates of interest payable on the loan facilities and on asset backed loan notes issued in the securitisation process are reset either quarterly or monthly on the basis of LIBOR.
Where asset backed loan notes are issued in foreign currencies, crosscurrency basis swaps are put in place converting the reference interest rate to a sterling LIBOR basis.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 225 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The Groups retail deposits either bear variable interest rates or are fixed rate liabilities which are hedged in accordance with the Groups risk management strategy.
The interest rates paid on the Groups variable rate deposits are determined by reference to, inter alia, returns achievable in the Groups lending markets and the rates being charged on similar products in the market.
The Groups loan assets predominantly bear LIBOR linked interest rates or are hedged fixed rate assets.
The interest rates charged on the Groups variable rate loan assets are determined by reference to, inter alia, the Groups funding costs and the rates being charged on similar products in the market.
Generally these factors ensure the matching of changes in interest rates on the Groups loan assets and borrowings and any exposure arising on the interest rate resets is relatively short term.
Forward rate agreements may be used to hedge against any perceived risk of temporary increases in LIBOR rates at month ends.
The return to the Group from its investments in structured entities is primarily attributable to the cash generation of the underlying portfolio.
There is no direct exposure to market interest rate risk.
The Groups working capital borrowings comprise corporate bonds and retail bonds issued under a Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
All bonds issued to date have fixed interest rates and therefore are not exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, although the retail bond programme includes the facility to issue floating rate instruments in the future.
The Group has entered into various interest rate basis swap arrangements to alter the effective basis of interest payments on certain borrowings to match the underlying assets, though due to their nature and low notional value, they do not have a significant impact on the Groups results.
To assess the Groups exposure to interest rate movements, the notional impact of a 1% change in UK interest rates on the equity of the Group at 30 September 2016, and the notional annualised impact of such a change on the operating profit of the Group, based on the year-end balance sheet have been calculated.
On this basis, a 1% increase in UK interest rates would reduce the Groups equity at 30 September 2016 by 3.1m 2015: 3.1m and increase profit before tax by 1.9m 2015: increase by 9.4m.
This calculation allows only for the direct effects of any change in UK interest rates.
In practice such a change might have wider economic consequences which would themselves potentially affect the Groups business and results.
Although certain of the Groups borrowings have interest rates dependent on US Dollar and Euro LIBOR rates, the effect of the cross currency basis swaps is such that the Groups results have no material exposure to movements in these rates.
The effects of independent 1% increases in US or Euro interest rates would be to increase the Groups equity by 1.2m 2015: 1.1m and 2.3m 2015: 1.9m respectively.
All the borrowings of the Company have fixed interest rates.
Assets and liabilities with other group companies bear interest at floating rates based on LIBOR which reset within three months of the balance sheet date: all other balances are non-interest bearing.
PAGE 226 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Currency risk All of the Groups significant assets and liabilities are denominated in sterling with the exception of the asset backed loan notes denominated in US dollars and euros, which are described in note 55.
Although IAS 39 requires that they be accounted for as currency liabilities and valued at their spot rates, a condition of the issue of these notes was that interest rate and currency swaps cross-currency basis swaps were put in place for the duration of the borrowing, having the effect of converting the liability to a LIBOR linked floating rate sterling borrowing.
Where the asset finance contracts to purchase assets in currency these liabilities are hedged by the purchase of appropriate currency balances.
As a result the Group has no material exposure to foreign currency risk, and no sensitivity analysis is presented for currency risk.
The equivalent sterling principal amounts of notes in issue under the arrangements described above, and their carrying values at 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015 are: 2016 2016 2015 2015 Equivalent Carrying Equivalent Carrying sterling principal value sterling principal value m m m m US dollar notes 1,829.5 2,667.6 2,048.3 2,555.1 Euro notes 2,004.1 2,532.5 2,011.3 2,171.4 3,833.6 5,200.1 4,059.6 4,726.5 None of the assets or liabilities of the Company are denominated in foreign currencies.
Acquisitions The Group acquired two businesses in the year ended 30 September 2016.
PBAF was acquired on 3 November 2015 and Premier was acquired on 30 September 2016.
The disclosures required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations in respect of these acquisitions are given in notes 9 and 10.
Amounts shown in other notes in respect of these acquisitions are analysed as shown below.
PBAF Premier Total Note Note 9 Note 10 m m m Goodwill arising on acquisition 28 79.1 17.7 96.8 Intangible assets acquired 28 1.0 0.1 1.1 Property, plant and machinery acquired 30 12.4 - 12.4 Loans to customers acquired 35 221.7 - 221.7 Deferred tax balances at acquisition 57 3.5 - 3.5 Cash flows on acquisition 62 305.3 4.8 310.1 Acquisition related costs 2.8 0.3 3.1 Had both acquisitions taken place on 1 October 2015, the consolidated revenue of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2016 would have been 448.8m and its consolidated profit before tax for the period would have been 145.2m.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 227 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 9.
Acqusition of Paragon Bank Asset Finance On 3 November 2015 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Paragon Bank Asset Finance Limited formerly Five Arrows Leasing Group Limited from Rothschild & Co. PBAF is the parent company of a group of companies PBAF Group providing a range of asset finance products to UK SMEs, including equipment, vehicle and construction equipment finance and is also a provider of lease servicing.
The acquisition allows the Group to diversify its range of both products and the markets it serves within the financial services sector.
The Group acquired 100% of the voting equity interests in PBAF and the consideration was satisfied entirely in cash.
Cash transferred on completion was 308.2m, 117.0m in respect of equity and 191.2m to settle existing debt owed by PBAF Group to the vendor.
There are no contingent consideration arrangements.
Transaction costs of 1.7m have been included in operating expenses for the year ended 30 September 2016.
The principal operating companies of the PBAF Group are listed below.
Company Principal activity Paragon Bank Asset Finance Limited Holding company and portfolio administration Five Arrows Leasing Group Limited at acquisition Dash Commercial Finance Limited Asset finance Paragon Bank Business Finance PLC Asset finance Five Arrows Business Finance PLC at acquisition Paragon Bank Technology Finance Limited Asset finance Five Arrows Media Finance Limited at acquisition Specialist Fleet Services Limited Asset finance and contract hire The contribution of PBAF Group to consolidated revenue for the year ended 30 September 2016 was 40.2m and its contribution to consolidated profit before tax for the period is set out below.
m m Contribution to consolidated profit excluding costs of acquisition 9.4 Transaction costs 1.7 Other acquisition related expenses 1.1 2.8 Contribution to consolidated profit after costs of acquisition 6.6 PAGE 228 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The amounts recognised in the consolidated accounts on acquisition in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out below.
The amounts presented are considered to be materially consistent with the existing accounting policies of the Group.
Note m m Non-current assets Operating lease assets 10.6 Other property, plant and equipment 1.8 Property, plant and equipment 12.4 Intangible assets a 1.0 Loans to customers b 221.7 Deferred tax 3.5 238.6 Current assets Other receivables 5.2 Cash c 3.4 8.6 Total assets 247.2 Current liabilities Financial liabilities - bank overdraft c 0.5 Current tax liabilities 0.2 Other liabilities 14.3 15.0 Non-current liabilities Contingent liability 3.1 3.1 Total liabilities 18.1 Total net identifiable assets 229.1 Goodwill d 79.1 Consideration c 308.2 a Intangible assets Identifiable intangible assets acquired represent broker networks and trading arrangements.
They will be amortised over a ten year period.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 229 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b Loans to customers The financial assets acquired at 3 November 2015 comprised: Fair value Gross Contractual Contractual flows Value not to be collected m m m Asset finance leases 203.6 207.7 2.2 Commercial mortgages 3.6 4.2 0.5 Factoring and discounting 14.1 14.1 - Other loans 0.4 0.4 - Loans to customers 221.7 226.4 2.7 c Cash flows on acquisition Net cashflows on acquisition were: Total m Payment for shares 117.0 Settlement of existing vendor balances 191.2 Consideration paid on completion 308.2 Cash 3.4 Bank overdraft 0.5 Net cash outflow note 8 305.3 The fair value and the gross contractual value of the cash balances acquired was equal to their book value, there are no contractual flows which are expected not to be collectable.
d Goodwill The goodwill of 79.4m arising from the acquisition consists of the values of the business relationships, market positions and knowledge base inherent in the business which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
These will be utilised in the future development of the acquired business and in expanding the Groups asset finance activities.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The Groups review of the goodwill arising in the transaction for the purposes of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets is described in note 29.
PAGE 230 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 10.
Acqusition of Premier Asset Finance On 30 September 2016 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Premier Asset Finance Limited Premier.
Premier is an asset finance broker dealing with specialist sectors of the SME market.
The acquisition allows the Group to increase the reach of its asset finance operations.
The Group acquired 100% of the voting equity interests in Premier and the consideration will be satisfied entirely in cash.
Cash transferred on completion was 7.0m, with a further payment to be made, following the agreement of completion accounts, estimated at 1.9m.
Further contingent consideration is payable in cash, up to a maximum of 12.0m based on the future performance of the acquired business.
10.6m has been provided in the accounts in respect of this contingent consideration, based on the net present value of the maximum amount.
This is considered to be the fair value of the consideration at the transaction date, based on initial forecasts for the business.
Transaction costs of 0.3m have been included in operating expenses for the year ended 30 September 2016.
As the acquisition occurred on 30 September 2016 the contribution of Premier to consolidated revenue for the year ended 30 September 2016 was nil and its contribution to consolidated profit before tax for the period comprised only the transaction costs set out above.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated accounts on acquisition in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out below.
Due to the proximity of the acquisition date to the year end, the Group has yet to finalise its exercise to determine these balances and therefore the amounts presented in this note should be considered as provisional.
Final amounts will be presented with the Groups annual results for the year ending 30 September 2017.
Note m m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment - Intangible assets a 0.1 0.1 Current assets Other receivables 0.2 Cash b 2.2 2.4 Total assets 2.5 Current liabilities Corporation tax payable 0.2 Other liabilities 0.5 0.7 Total liabilities 0.7 Total net identifiable assets 1.8 Goodwill c 17.7 Consideration d 19.5 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 231 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS a Intangible assets Identifiable intangible assets acquired represent broker networks and trading arrangements.
b Cash flows on acquisition Net cashflows on acquisition were: Total m Consideration paid on completion 7.0 Cash 2.2 Net cash outflow note 8 4.8 The fair value and the gross contractual value of the cash balances acquired was equal to their book value, there are no contractual flows which are expected not to be collectable.
c Goodwill The goodwill of 17.7m arising from the acquisition consists of the values of the business relationships, market positions and knowledge base inherent in the business which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The Groups review of the goodwill arising in the transaction for the purposes of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets is described in note 29. d Consideration The total consideration accounted for on acquisition was: Total m Consideration paid on completion note c 7.0 Accrual for payment due on agreement of completion accounts 1.9 Contingent consideration 10.6 Total consideration 19.5 PAGE 232 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 11.
Segmental Information The Group analyses its operations, both for internal management reporting and external financial reporting, on the basis of the entities within the Group generating its assets.
The segments used are described below: Paragon Mortgages includes revenue, in the form of interest and ancillary income, from the Groups first mortgage operations, other than the buy-to-let lending of Paragon Bank, and from other assets remaining in legacy portfolios Idem Capital includes revenue generated from assets purchased by the Groups debt investment business, Idem Capital Holdings Limited, other than those financed by Paragon Bank and from third party loan administration activity Paragon Bank includes revenue, in the form of interest and ancillary income, generated from the Groups regulated banking business, Paragon Bank PLC and its subsidiary companies including PBAF Group Each of these businesses invests in consumer finance assets or SME finance, and an analysis of the Groups financial assets by type and segment is shown in note 32.
Dedicated financing and administration costs of each of these businesses are allocated to the segment.
Shared costs, and the financing costs of the Groups working capital invested, are allocated based on the segments use of those resources.
No profit has been recognised in the segmental disclosures below in respect of transfers of loan assets between segments.
The costs arising from the PBAF and Premier acquisitions in the period of 3.1m are included in the Paragon Bank segmental profit and loss account for the year.
All of the Groups operations are conducted in the UK, all revenues arise from external customers and there are no inter-segment revenues.
No customer contributes more than 10% of the revenue of the Group.
Financial information about these business segments, prepared on the same basis as used in the consolidated accounts of the Group, is shown below.
PAGE 234 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The total additions to non-current assets, excluding financial instruments, attributable to each segment during the years ended 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015 were: 2016 2015 m m Paragon Mortgages 1.3 1.3 Idem Capital 0.9 0.5 Paragon Bank 119.7 0.1 121.9 1.9 Being: Note 2016 2015 m m Intangible Assets 28 99.3 1.2 Property, plant and equipment 30 22.6 0.7 121.9 1.9 12.
Revenue Note 2016 2015 m m Interest receivable 13 411.4 341.0 Operating lease income 15 13.0 - Other income 16 17.8 14.1 Total revenue 442.2 355.1 Arising from: Paragon Mortgages 272.3 271.7 Idem Capital 80.4 76.9 Paragon Bank 89.5 6.5 Total revenue 442.2 355.1 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 235 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 13.
Interest Receivable 2016 2015 m m Interest receivable in respect of First mortgages 277.1 245.2 Secured consumer loans 63.9 50.4 Other consumer loans 36.6 35.9 Development finance 0.2 - Finance leases 22.6 0.9 Interest on loans to customers 400.4 332.4 Other interest receivable 5.6 5.4 Factoring income 3.0 - Income from structured entities 2.4 3.2 Total interest on financial assets 411.4 341.0 Interest on loans to customers includes 4.1m 2015: 5.5m charged on accounts where an impairment provision has been made.
Interest Payable and Similar Charges Note 2016 2015 m m On retail deposits 29.5 5.5 On asset backed loan notes 103.4 94.7 On corporate bonds 4.8 4.1 On retail bonds 18.5 12.3 On bank loans and overdrafts 29.7 25.1 Total interest on financial liabilities 185.9 141.7 On pension scheme deficit 56 0.8 0.7 Other finance costs 1.5 1.2 188.2 143.6 PAGE 236 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 15.
Net Operating Lease Income 2016 2015 m m Income Operating lease rentals 7.9 - Maintenance income 5.1 - Total operating lease income 13.0 - Costs Depreciation of lease assets 3.0 - Maintenance salaries 2.0 - Other maintenance costs 5.0 - Total operating lease costs 10.0 - Net operating lease income 3.0 - 16.
Other Income 2016 2015 m m Loan account fee income 7.7 6.7 Insurance income 1.2 1.2 Third party servicing 7.4 4.9 Other income 1.5 1.3 17.8 14.1 17.
Operating Expenses Note 2016 2015 m m Employment costs 18 58.1 46.9 Auditor remuneration 21 1.2 1.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 28 1.6 1.4 Depreciation on operating assets 30 1.9 1.5 Operating lease rentals payable 65 2.6 2.2 Other administrative costs 27.1 18.1 92.5 71.2 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 237 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 18.
Employees The average number of persons including directors employed by the Group during the year was 1,249 2015: 1,020.
The number of employees at the end of the year was 1,299 2015: 1,040.
Costs incurred during the year in respect of these employees were: 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Share based remuneration 4.4 4.5 Other wages and salaries 47.8 35.9 Total wages and salaries 52.2 40.4 National Insurance on share based remuneration 0.1 1.1 Other social security costs 4.5 3.1 Total social security costs 4.4 4.2 Defined benefit pension cost 1.7 1.7 Other pension costs 1.8 0.6 Total pension costs 3.5 2.3 Total employment costs 60.1 46.9 Of which Included in operating expenses note 17 58.1 46.9 Included in maintenance costs note 15 2.0 - 60.1 46.9 Details of the pension schemes operated by the Group are given in note 56.
The Company has no employees.
Details of the directors remuneration are given in note 19.
PAGE 238 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 19.
Key Management Remuneration The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group and the Company, is set out below in aggregate in accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Transactions.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration in section B5.2.
2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Salaries and fees 1.6 1.5 Cash amount of bonus 1.1 1.4 Social security costs 0.5 0.6 Short-term employee benefits 3.2 3.5 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 IFRS 2 cost in respect of directors 1.9 1.8 National Insurance thereon 0.2 0.7 Share based payment 2.1 2.5 5.7 6.4 Post-employment benefits shown above are shown as Pension allowance in section B5.2.
Costs in respect of share awards shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration are determined on a different basis to the IFRS 2 charge shown above.
Social security costs paid in respect of directors are required to be included in this note by IAS 24, but do not fall within the scope of the disclosures in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Share Based Remuneration During the year the Group had various share based payment arrangements with employees.
They are accounted for by the Group and the Company as shown below.
The effect of the share based payment arrangements on the Groups profit is shown in note 18.
Further details of share based payment arrangements are given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration in section B5.2.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 239 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS a Share option schemes The Group operates an All Employee Share Option Sharesave scheme.
Grants under this scheme vest, in the normal course, after the completion of the appropriate service period and subject to a savings requirement.
A reconciliation of movements in the number and weighted average exercise price of options over 1 ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2016 and the year ended 30 September 2015 is shown below.
The weighted average market price at exercise for share options exercised in the year was 334.01p 2015: 423.34p.
The fair value of options granted is determined using a binomial model.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2016 and the year ended 30 September 2015 are shown below.
Grant date 20 06 16 20 06 16 11 06 15 11 06 15 Number of awards granted 1,855,602 483,438 1,160,920 214,771 Market price at date of grant 297.10p 297.10p 439.00p 439.00p Contractual life years 3.5 5.5 3.5 5.5 Fair value per share at date of grant 0.50 0.52 1.12 1.10 Inputs to valuation model Expected volatility 26.62% 29.47% 31.99% 31.99% Expected life at grant date years 3.46 5.45 3.43 5.44 Risk-free interest rate 0.84% 0.98% 1.25% 1.25% Expected dividend yield 3.94% 3.94% 2.19% 2.19% Expected annual departures 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% The expected volatility of the share price used in determining the fair value for the 2015 schemes is based on the annualised standard deviation of daily changes in price over the six years preceding the grant date.
The three year 2016 scheme uses share price data for the preceding three years from grant date, and the five year 2016 scheme uses the preceding five years.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 241 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b Paragon Performance Share Plan Awards under this plan comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment and will vest on the third anniversary of their granting, to the extent that the applicable performance criteria have been satisfied, if the holder is still employed by the Group.
The awards will lapse to the extent that the performance condition has not been satisfied on the third anniversary.
Awards are exercisable from the date on which the Remuneration Committee determines the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied to the day before the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
Clawback provisions apply to awards granted under the PSP as detailed in the remuneration policy.
50% of these awards are subject to a TSR test and 50% are subject to an EPS test.
The TSR test compares the rank of the Companys TSR against a comparator group of companies comprising the constituents of the FTSE-250.
25% of the TSR tested awards vest for median performance, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
The EPS test provides that 25% of EPS tested awards will vest where EPS growth is equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 3%, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for EPS growth equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 7% or more.
In each case the testing period is the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
50% of these awards are subject to a TSR test and 50% are subject to an EPS test as described above, except that full vesting of the EPS tested awards takes place where EPS growth is equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 13% or more.
The number of share options outstanding and the exercise price under each of the arrangements shown above which were outstanding at the time of the share consolidation on 29 January 2008 and the rights issue on 21 February 2008 were adjusted in accordance with the respective scheme rules.
PAGE 242 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The fair value of awards granted under the Performance Share Plan is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, to take account of the effect of the market based condition.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2016 and the year ended 30 September 2015 are shown below: Grant date 22 12 15 18 12 14 Number of awards granted 1,487,166 1,038,634 Market price at date of grant 362.70p 409.60p Fair value per share at date of grant 204.46p 317.76p Inputs to valuation model Expected volatility 24.99% 26.62% Risk-free interest rate 1.21% 1.18% Expected dividend yield 3.03% 2.20% For all of the above grants the contractual life and expected life at grant date is three years and no departures are expected.
For awards granted before 18 July 2008 the expected volatility of the share price used in determining the fair value was based on the annualised standard deviation of daily changes in price over the previous year from the grant date.
The expected volatility for awards granted between this date and 30 September 2008 is calculated using the same method but using daily changes in price over the six years preceding the grant date.
The expected volatility for awards granted after this date is calculated using the same method but using daily changes in price over the three years preceding the grant date.
c Deferred Bonus awards Awards under these plans comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment.
The conditional entitlements outstanding under these plans at 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015 were: Grant date Period exerciseable Number Number 2016 2015 23 11 2012 01 10 2015 to 22 11 2016 - 259,537 10 12 2013 10 12 2016 to 09 12 2023 174,519 174,519 18 12 2014 18 12 2017 to 17 12 2024 113,202 113,202 22 12 2015 22 12 2018 to 21 12 2025 134,524 - 422,245 547,258 The Deferred Bonus shares awarded before 2013 can be exercised from the third anniversary of the start of the financial year in which the award was made until the day before the fourth anniversary of the award date.
The Deferred Bonus shares awarded during 2013 and thereafter can be exercised from the third anniversary of the award date until the day before the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 243 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The fair value of Deferred Bonus awards issued in the year was determined using a Black-Scholes Merton model.
Grant date 22 12 15 18 12 14 Number of awards granted 134,524 113,202 Market price at date of grant 362.7p 409.6p Fair value per share at date of grant 362.7p 409.6p Inputs to valuation model Risk-free interest rate 1.21% 1.18% d Matching Share Plan Awards under this plan comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment and will vest on the third anniversary of their granting to the extent that the applicable performance criteria have been satisfied, if the holder is still employed by the Group.
The conditional entitlements outstanding under this scheme at 30 September 2016 and at 30 September 2015 were: Grant date Period exerciseable Number Number 2016 2015 09 01 2007 09 01 2010 to 09 01 2017 - 3,723 02 01 2008 02 01 2011 to 02 01 2018 9,969 22,329 9,969 26,052 The numbers of share options outstanding and the exercise prices under each of the arrangements shown above which was outstanding at the time of the share consolidation on 29 January 2008 and the rights issue on 21 February 2008 were adjusted in accordance with the respective scheme rules.
The fair value of awards granted under the Matching Share Plan is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, to take account of the effect of the market based condition.
No awards were made in the year ended 30 September 2016 or the year ended 30 September 2015.
PAGE 244 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 21.
Auditor Remuneration The analysis of fees payable to the Companys auditors KPMG LLP in 2016 and Deloitte LLP in 2015 and their associates, excluding irrecoverable VAT, required by the Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements Regulations 2008 is set out below.
This analysis includes amounts charged to the profit and loss account or included within the issue costs of debt and equity in respect of fees paid to the Group auditors and their associates.
For each firm the fees shown are those arising in their period of office.
KPMG Deloitte Deloitte 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 Audit fee of the company 119 127 Other services Audit of subsidiary undertakings pursuant to legislation 633 4 436 Total audit fees 752 4 563 Audit related assurance services Interim review 57 - 45 Tax compliance services - - 125 Tax advisory services - 29 79 - 29 204 Other assurance services Securitisation reporting - 82 188 Corporate finance services - 8 26 Other services 103 42 68 Total fees 912 157 1,094 Irrecoverable VAT 182 32 219 Total cost to the Group 1,094 189 1,313 Fees Paid to Deloitte LLP 189 1,313 Fees Paid to KPMG LLP 1,094 - 1,283 1,313 Of which: Charged to profit and loss account note 17 1,184 1,056 Included in issue costs of debt 99 257 Total cost to the Group 1,283 1,313 In addition to the amounts above, Deloitte received fees of 7,000 in 2015, excluding VAT, in respect of the audit of the Group pension scheme.
Fees paid to the auditors and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not disclosed because the consolidated accounts of the Group are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 245 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 22.
Provisions For Losses 2016 2015 m m Impairment of financial assets note 36 First mortgage loans 4.8 3.6 Other secured loans 0.4 0.3 Finance lease receivables 0.6 0.4 Other loans 1.9 2.1 7.7 5.6 23.
Fair Value Net Losses 2016 2015 m m Net loss on derivatives designated as fair value hedges 7.2 3.8 Fair value adjustments from hedge accounting 6.5 4.0 Ineffectiveness of fair value hedges 0.7 0.2 Ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges - 1.0 Net gains on other derivatives 0.1 0.3 0.6 0.5 The fair value net loss represents the accounting volatility on derivative instruments which are matching risk exposure on an economic basis generated by the requirements of IAS 39.
Some accounting volatility arises on these items due to accounting ineffectiveness on designated hedges, or because hedge accounting has not been adopted or is not achievable on certain items.
The losses and gains are primarily due to timing differences in income recognition between the derivative instruments and the economically hedged assets and liabilities.
Such differences will reverse over time and have no impact on the cash flows of the Group.
Tax Charge on Profit on Ordinary Activities a Analysis of charge in the year 2016 2015 m m Current tax UK Corporation Tax on profits of the period 28.2 25.4 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.6 0.1 Total current tax 27.6 25.3 Deferred tax 0.4 1.8 Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 27.2 27.1 PAGE 246 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b Deferred tax charge for the year The deferred tax charge in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2016 2015 m m Accelerated tax depreciation 0.3 0.1 Retirement benefit obligations 0.1 - Impairment and other provisions 0.6 0.8 Utilisation of tax losses 0.1 - Other timing differences 0.1 0.6 Deferred tax charge for the year 0.4 1.5 Prior period adjustment 0.1 0.3 Change in tax rate 0.7 - Deferred tax credit charge note 57 0.4 1.8 During the year ended 30 September 2013 the UK Government enacted provisions reducing the rate of corporation tax from 21.0% to 20.0% from 1 April 2015.
During the year ended 30 September 2015 the Government announced provisions further reducing the rate of corporation tax to 19.0% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18.0% from 1 April 2020 which were substantially enacted during the year.
The tax rate applying from 1 April 2020 was further reduced to 17.0% during the year.
Therefore the standard rate of corporation tax applicable to the Group for the year ended 30 September 2016 was 20.0%, the rate in the year ended 30 September 2017 is expected to be 19.5%, the rate in the years ending 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2019 are expected to be 19.0%, the rate in the year ending 30 September 2020 is expected to be 18.0% and the rate in subsequent years is expected to be 17.0%.
The expected impact on deferred tax balances of the changes to 19.0% and 17.0% was accounted for in the year ended 30 September 2016.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 247 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS c Factors affecting tax charge for the year The Group operates wholly in the UK and all but a nominal amount of the Groups incomes arise in UK resident companies.
Consequently, it is appropriate to use the prevailing UK corporation tax rate as the appropriate comparator to the effective tax rate.
The UK Corporation tax rate applicable to the Group for the year was 20.0% 2015: 20.5%.
2016 2015 m m Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 143.2 134.2 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax 28.6 27.5 Effects of: Permanent differences - Disallowable acquisition costs 0.3 - - Income from structured entities 0.8 1.0 - Recurring disallowable expenditure and similar items 0.2 0.3 Mismatch in timing differences 0.3 0.1 Change in rate of taxation on deferred tax assets and liabilities 0.7 - Prior year charge credit 0.7 0.2 Tax charge for the year 27.2 27.1 The income from the Groups investment in structured entities is recognised in the income statement net of taxes incurred by the structured entities and consequently appears as a reconciling item in the tax charge.
The timing difference mismatch arises from the fact that tax relief for share based payments is given on a different basis to that on which the accounting charge for the provision of these awards is recognised under IFRS 2.
The expected changes to UK corporation tax rates in future periods mentioned above have reduced the rates at which temporary differences are expected to reverse, resulting in a tax credit.
d Factors affecting future tax charges As practically all of the Groups profit is subject to UK corporation tax the effective tax rate is expected to fall in line with the reductions in the standard rate described above.
The banking surcharge was introduced with effect from 1 January 2016.
This subjects any profits arising in the Groups banking subsidiary, Paragon Bank PLC and no other Group entity, to an additional 8% of tax to the extent they exceed 25.0m.
The purchase of PBAF has introduced a leasing business into the Group.
Whilst such businesses do not, in general, have significant permanent differences, the taxable profits in a given accounting period are usually significantly different from the accounting profits due to temporary differences.
Consequently, the acquisition will have no material impact on the effective tax rate, but may have on the Groups tax payments.
As a wholly UK based business the Group does not expect to be significantly impacted by the OECD project on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS.
PAGE 248 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 25.
Profit Attributable to Members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Companys profit after tax for the financial year amounted to 82.4m 2015: 65.2m.
A separate income statement has not been prepared for the Company under the provisions of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has no other items of comprehensive income for the years ended 30 September 2016 or 30 September 2015.
Earnings Per Share Earnings per ordinary share is calculated as follows: 2016 2015 Profit for the year m 116.0 107.1 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for 286.5 301.9 dividend during the year million Dilutive effect of the weighted average number of share options 5.5 5.9 and incentive plans in issue during the year million Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for 292.0 307.8 dividend during the year million Earnings per ordinary share - basic 40.5p 35.5p - diluted 39.7p 34.8p 27.
Tax Credited Charged to Equity The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m On actuarial loss on pension scheme note 56 6.8 0.9 - - On gains losses on cash flow hedges note 48 1.0 0.6 - - Total tax on items recognised in comprehensive income 5.8 1.5 - - On share based payment note 49 0.2 1.2 - - Total tax credited to equity 5.6 2.7 - - Of which Current tax 0.2 2.1 - - Deferred tax note 57 5.4 0.6 - - 5.6 2.7 - - The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 249 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 28.
Intangible Assets Goodwill Computer Other Total note 29 software intangible assets m m m m Cost At 1 October 2014 7.6 4.4 8.1 20.1 Acquisitions - - - - Additions - 1.2 - 1.2 Disposals - - - - At 30 September 2015 7.6 5.6 8.1 21.3 Acquisitions 96.8 - 1.1 97.9 Additions - 1.4 - 1.4 Disposals - - - - At 30 September 2016 104.4 7.0 9.2 120.6 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 October 2014 6.0 3.1 3.1 12.2 Amortisation charge for the year - 0.9 0.5 1.4 On disposals - - - - At 30 September 2015 6.0 4.0 3.6 13.6 Amortisation charge for the year - 0.9 0.7 1.6 On disposals - - - - At 30 September 2016 6.0 4.9 4.3 15.2 Net book value At 30 September 2016 98.4 2.1 4.9 105.4 At 30 September 2015 1.6 1.6 4.5 7.7 At 30 September 2014 1.6 1.3 5.0 7.9 Other intangible assets comprise brands and the benefit of business networks recognised on the acquisition of subsidiary companies.
Goodwill The goodwill carried in the accounts is attributable to two cash generating units, as analysed below: 2016 2015 m m Asset finance 96.8 - TBMC 1.6 1.6 98.4 1.6 PAGE 250 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS a Asset finance The goodwill carried in the accounts relating to the asset finance cash generating unit was recognised on the acquisitions of PBAF and Premier in the year notes 9 and 10.
An impairment review undertaken at 30 September 2016 indicated that no write down was required.
The recoverable amount of the asset finance cash generating unit used in this impairment testing is determined on a value in use basis using pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a five year period.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection is 15.1% and cash flows beyond the five year budget are extrapolated assuming no lending growth beyond that point.
The key assumptions underlying the value in use calculation for the asset finance cash generating unit are: Level of business activity, based on management expectations.
Management have concluded that the levels of activity assumed for the purpose of this forecast are reasonable, based on past experience and the current economic environment Discount rate, which is based on the Groups cost of capital The directors believe that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions above would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
b TBMC The goodwill carried in the accounts relating to the TBMC cash generating unit was recognised on the acquisition of The Business Mortgage Company Limited and its subsidiaries TBMC in December 2008.
An impairment review undertaken at 30 September 2009 indicated a write down of 6.0m which was charged to the profit and loss account.
Further reviews were undertaken at each year end up to 30 September 2016 each of which indicated no further impairment.
The recoverable amount of TBMC used in this impairment testing is determined on a value in use basis using pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a five year period.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection is 5.0% and cash flows beyond the five year budget are extrapolated using a 2.0% growth rate, being the average long term growth rate in the UK economy over a twenty year period.
The key assumptions underlying the value in use calculation for the TBMC business are: Level of business activity, based on management expectations.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 251 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 30.
Leased assets includes 11.4m in respect of assets leased under operating leases 2015: nil and 4.5m of assets available for hire 2015: nil.
PAGE 252 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b The Company Land and buildings m Cost At 1 October 2014 19.9 Additions - Disposals - At 30 September 2015 19.9 Additions - Disposals - At 30 September 2016 19.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 October 2014 0.3 Charge for the year 0.3 On disposals - At 30 September 2015 0.6 Charge for the year 0.4 On disposals - At 30 September 2016 1.0 Net book value At 30 September 2016 18.9 At 30 September 2015 19.3 At 30 September 2014 19.6 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 253 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 31.
Investment in Subsidiary Undertakings Shares in Group Loans to Group Loans to Total companies companies ESOP Trusts m m m m At 1 October 2014 320.4 604.4 3.2 928.0 Investments in subsidiaries 33.0 - - 33.0 Disposal of subsidiaries - - - - Loans advanced - 188.5 8.3 196.8 Loans repaid - 124.6 - 124.6 Provision movements 6.9 - 8.0 14.9 At 30 September 2015 346.5 668.3 3.5 1,018.3 Investments in subsidiaries 174.1 - - 174.1 Disposal of subsidiaries - - - - Loans advanced - 30.2 9.8 40.0 Loans repaid - 246.6 - 246.6 Provision movements 1.2 - 0.2 1.0 At 30 September 2016 519.4 451.9 13.5 984.8 Investments in and disposals of subsidiaries represent transactions between the Company and various of its subsidiaries.
During the year ended 30 September 2016 the Company received 82.0m in dividend income from its subsidiaries 2015: 70.5m and 33.6m of interest on loans to Group companies 2015: 37.6m.
The company's subsidiaries, and the nature of its interest in them, are shown in note 67.
Financial Assets Note 2016 2015 2014 m m m Loans and receivables 33 10,391.8 10,019.0 9,250.2 Finance lease receivables 34 345.7 43.4 5.7 Loans to customers 35 10,737.5 10,062.4 9,255.9 Fair value adjustments from portfolio hedging 37 12.5 5.2 0.5 Investments in structured entities 38 - 18.1 19.3 Derivative financial assets 39 1,366.4 660.1 693.9 12,116.4 10,745.8 9,969.6 PAGE 254 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The Groups loan assets and investments in structured entities at 30 September 2016, analysed between the segments described in note 11 are as follows: Paragon Idem Paragon Total Mortgages Capital Bank m m m m At 30 September 2016 First mortgages 8,620.4 13.7 1,015.6 9,649.7 Consumer loans 147.6 269.6 400.0 817.2 Asset finance - - 250.4 250.4 Other loans - - 20.2 20.2 Loans to customers 8,768.0 283.3 1,686.2 10,737.5 Investments in structured entities - - - - Total investments in loans 8,768.0 283.3 1,686.2 10,737.5 At 30 September 2015 First mortgages 9,046.7 14.5 349.6 9,410.8 Consumer loans 175.0 418.4 58.2 651.6 Asset finance - - - - Other loans - - - - Loans to customers 9,221.7 432.9 407.8 10,062.4 Investments in structured entities - 18.1 - 18.1 Total investments in loans 9,221.7 451.0 407.8 10,080.5 Of the assets shown above, the balances acquired through the Groups Idem Capital debt purchase operation were as follows.
Paragon Idem Paragon Total Mortgages Capital Bank m m m m At 30 September 2016 Loans to customers - 283.3 250.6 533.9 Investments in structured entities - - - - Total investments in loans - 283.3 250.6 533.9 At 30 September 2015 Loans to customers - 432.9 - 432.9 Investments in structured entities - 18.1 - 18.1 Total investments in loans - 451.0 - 451.0 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 255 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 33.
Loans and Receivables Loans and receivables at 30 September 2016, 30 September 2015 and 30 September 2014, which are all denominated and payable in sterling, were: 2016 2015 2014 m m m First mortgage loans 9,649.7 9,410.8 8,651.7 Secured loans 526.8 387.1 436.2 Other unsecured consumer loans 195.1 221.1 162.3 Other loans 20.2 - - 10,391.8 10,019.0 9,250.2 First mortgages are secured on residential property within the UK: secured loans enjoy second charges on residential property.
The estimated value of the security held against those loans above which are considered to be impaired or past due, representing, for each such account, the lesser of the outstanding balance on the loan and the estimated valuation of the property was: 2016 2015 m m First mortgage loans 34.2 37.7 Secured loans 81.0 92.3 115.2 130.0 Mortgage loans have a contractual term of up to thirty years, secured loans up to twenty five years, retail finance loans up to ten years and other unsecured loans up to ten years.
In all cases the borrower is entitled to settle the loan at any point and in most cases early settlement does take place.
All borrowers are required to make monthly payments, except where an initial deferred period is included in the contractual terms.
Certain of Paragon Banks buy-to-let mortgage assets have been utilised as whole mortgage pools for the purpose of the FLS.
This has enabled off balance sheet liquidity to be provided, based on the value of the assets pledged, subject to a haircut.
The amount of the liquidity presently drawn is shown in note 7.
Further mortgage assets of the Bank have been pre-positioned with the Bank of England for use in the FLS and other funding schemes.
PAGE 256 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The amount of these loans and of the loans pledged as collateral for the liabilities described in note 54 and of loans otherwise held within Paragon Bank, at 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015 were: First Consumer Other Total Mortgages Finance loans m m m m 30 September 2016 In respect of: Asset backed loan notes 6,845.8 413.8 - 7,259.6 Warehouse facilities 1,762.1 - - 1,762.1 Funding for lending 192.2 - - 192.2 Total pledged as collateral 8,800.1 413.8 - 9,213.9 Prepositioned with Bank of England 428.1 - - 428.1 Other Bank assets 395.3 304.7 20.2 720.2 Other assets not pledged as collateral 26.2 3.4 - 29.6 9,649.7 721.9 20.2 10,391.8 30 September 2015 In respect of: Asset backed loan notes 7,464.7 448.4 - 7,913.1 Warehouse facilities 1,566.5 - - 1,566.5 Funding for lending - - - - Total pledged as collateral 9,031.2 448.4 - 9,479.6 Prepositioned with Bank of England - - - - Other Bank assets 349.6 15.0 - 364.6 Other assets not pledged as collateral 30.0 144.8 - 174.8 9,410.8 608.2 - 10,019.0 34.
Finance Lease Receivables The Groups finance lease receivables are car finance and asset finance loans.
The average contractual life of the car loans is 49 months 2015: 50 months while that of the asset finance loans was 42 months 2015: N A, but it is likely that a significant proportion of customers will choose to settle their obligations early.
The Groups finance leases can be analysed as shown below: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Car Finance 95.3 44.0 6.5 Asset Finance 250.4 - - 345.7 44.0 6.5 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 257 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The minimum lease payments due under these loan agreements are: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Amounts receivable Within one year 133.0 12.8 2.3 Within two to five years 255.8 36.1 4.9 After five years 7.6 - - 396.4 48.9 7.2 Less: future finance income 47.7 4.9 0.7 Present value 348.7 44.0 6.5 The present values of those payments, net of provisions for impairment, carried in the accounts are: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Amounts receivable Within one year 116.1 11.5 2.1 Within two to five years 225.8 32.5 4.4 After five years 6.8 - - Present value 348.7 44.0 6.5 Allowance for uncollectible amounts 3.0 0.6 0.8 Carrying value 345.7 43.4 5.7 The Group considers that the fair value of its finance lease receivables is not significantly different to their carrying values.
Whilst on car finance cases the Group has the benefit of the underlying vehicle as security on these loans, no account of this is taken in the allowance for uncollectible amounts shown above.
The Group has insufficient information on the current condition of finance leased vehicles to derive a reliable estimate of the value which could be realised from vehicles to offset against arrears accounts.
Accordingly, no such disclosure is provided.
For the Groups asset finance loans, estimated valuations of security assets for balances in arrears are undertaken as part of the credit management process.
These exercises suggest that the security value of assets under finance leases which are past due or impaired is 6.7m 2015: nil.
The loans shown above pledged as collateral for liabilities or held within Paragon Bank at 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015 were: 2016 2015 m m In respect of: Asset backed loan notes 0.1 0.2 Warehouse facilities - - Total pledged as collateral 0.1 0.2 Bank assets 345.6 43.2 Other assets not pledged as collateral - - 345.7 43.4 PAGE 258 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 35.
Loans to Customers The movements in the Groups investment in loans to customers in the year ended 30 September 2016 and the year ended 30 September 2015 were: 2016 2015 m m Cost At 1 October 2015 10,062.4 9,255.9 Acquisitions note 8 221.7 - Additions 1,654.0 1,495.6 Effective Interest Rate EIR adjustments 54.9 59.0 Other debits 326.6 279.1 Provision charge note 36 7.7 5.6 Repayments and redemptions 1,574.4 1,021.6 At 30 September 2016 10,737.5 10,062.4 Other debits includes primarily interest and fees charged to customers on loans outstanding.
The fair value of loans to customers is considered to be not materially different to the amortised cost value at which they are disclosed.
Impairment Provisions on Loans to Customers The following amounts in respect of impairment provisions, net of allowances for recoveries of written off assets, have been deducted from the appropriate assets in the balance sheet.
First Other loans and Finance Total Mortgages receivables leases m m m m At 1 October 2014 87.0 27.0 0.8 114.8 Charge for the year note 22 3.6 2.4 0.4 5.6 Amounts written off 4.5 3.5 0.2 7.8 Amounts recovered 0.1 1.5 - 1.6 At 30 September 2015 86.0 24.4 0.6 111.0 Charge for the year note 22 4.8 2.6 0.3 7.7 Amounts written off 2.1 2.0 1.3 5.4 Amounts recovered 0.1 2.4 1.6 0.7 At 30 September 2016 88.8 22.6 1.2 112.6 Of the above balances, the following provisions were held in respect of realised losses not charged off, which remain on the balance sheet and provided for in full.
First Other loans and Finance Total Mortgages receivables leases m m m m At 30 September 2016 72.4 0.1 0.1 72.6 At 30 September 2015 70.7 0.3 0.1 71.1 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 259 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 37.
Fair Value Adjustments from Portfolio Hedging The Group applies fair value hedge accounting in respect of portfolios of loan assets and retail deposits where the appropriate criteria are met.
In these circumstances the change in the fair value of the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk is shown under this heading next to the carrying value of the hedged assets or liabilities.
Investment in Structured Entities Investments in structured entities represent the Groups contribution made to special purpose vehicle SPV companies established and controlled by unrelated third parties to purchase pools of loan assets.
All such investments are denominated in sterling, unlisted and are considered to be debt investments as defined by IFRS.
The underlying loans are secured and unsecured consumer loans made to UK borrowers.
The Group is under no obligation to make any further contribution to these entities.
The movements in the Groups investment in structured entities in the year ended 30 September 2016 and the year ended 30 September 2015 were: 2016 2015 m m Cost At 1 October 2015 18.1 19.3 Additions - - Effective Interest Rate EIR income note 13 2.4 3.2 Payments received 20.5 4.4 At 30 September 2016 - 18.1 The fair values of investments in structured entities are considered to be not materially different to the amortised cost value at which they are disclosed.
The Group administers the assets of the SPV companies on behalf of the owners.
Fee income derived from this activity of 0.5m 2015: 2.1m is included within third party servicing fees note 15 and nil 2015: 0.1m is included in other debtors note 40 in respect of unpaid fees at the year end.
PAGE 260 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 39.
Derivative Financial Assets and Liabilities All of the Groups financial derivatives are held for economic hedging purposes, although not all may be designated for hedge accounting in accordance with the provisions of IAS 39.
The analysis below therefore splits derivatives between those accounted for as hedges and those which, while representing an economic hedge, do not qualify for this treatment.
All of the financial assets and liabilities shown are valued using methodologies where the principal inputs are directly or indirectly derived from market data and are therefore classified within level two of the fair value hierarchy laid down by IFRS 7.
The Groups securitisation borrowings are denominated in sterling, euros and US dollars.
All currency borrowings are swapped at inception so that they have the effect of sterling borrowings.
These swaps provide an effective hedge against exchange rate movements, but the requirement to carry them at fair value leads, when exchange rates have moved significantly since the issue of the notes, to large balances for the swaps being carried in the balance sheet.
This is currently the case with both euro and US dollar swaps, although the debit balance is compensated for by retranslating the borrowings at the current exchange rate.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included within Financial Assets note 32 and Financial Liabilities note 53 respectively.
2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities amount amount m m m m m m Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 1,933.9 1.3 14.5 1,189.6 0.3 5.4 Cash flow hedges Cross currency basis swaps 3,833.6 1,364.8 - 4,059.5 659.8 - 5,767.5 1,366.1 14.5 5,249.1 660.1 5.4 Other derivatives Interest rate swaps 347.7 0.3 1.3 448.8 - 1.3 Total recognised derivative 6,115.2 1,366.4 15.8 5,697.9 660.1 6.7 assets liabilities At 30 September 2016 cash deposits of 1,184.2m had been pledged as collateral in respect of swaps shown above by the respective swap counterparties 2015: 753.5m as described in note 7.
All fair value hedging items at 30 September 2016 and at 30 September 2015 relate to the hedging of the Groups loan assets and retail deposits on a portfolio basis.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 261 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 40.
Other Receivables a The Group Note 2016 2015 2014 m m m Current assets Accrued interest income 0.3 0.4 0.3 Trade receivables 2.4 - - Prepayments 2.6 1.9 1.7 Bank borrowings 55 - 1.0 0.9 CSA Assets 3.7 0.9 - Other tax 0.8 - - Other 2.9 2.0 3.6 12.7 6.2 6.5 The Group uses the International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA Master Agreement for documenting certain derivative activity within Paragon Bank.
For certain counterparties a Credit Support Annex CSA has been executed in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, collateral is passed between counterparties to mitigate the market contingent counterparty risk inherent in the outstanding positions.
Collateral pledged to such counterparties by the Group is shown in the table above.
Accrued interest income and other debtors fall within the definition of financial assets given in IAS 32.
The fair values of the above items are not considered to be materially different to their carrying values.
b The Company 2016 2015 2014 m m m Current assets Amounts owed by Group companies 84.5 141.2 103.9 Accrued interest income 0.1 0.1 - 84.6 141.3 103.9 Accrued interest income and other debtors fall within the definition of financial assets given in IAS 32.
PAGE 262 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 41.
Short Term Investments This amount represents fixed rate securities issued by the UK Government for which a liquid market exists and are held as part of the liquidity requirement of Paragon Bank PLC.
As such they are designated as Available for Sale, as defined by IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are consequently shown at fair value which corresponds to their market value.
The total nominal value of the securities at 30 September 2016 was 7.0m 2015: 40.0m, the weighted average coupon was 1.75% 2015: 4.41% and their carrying value was 7.1m 2015: 41.1m.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 2016 2015 2014 m m m Balances with central banks 315.0 286.0 - Balances with other banks 922.6 770.0 848.8 1,237.6 1,056.0 848.8 Only Free Cash is unrestrictedly available for the Groups general purposes.
Cash received in respect of loan assets is not immediately available, due to the terms of the warehouse facilities and the securitisations.
Cash held in the Groups banking subsidiary is subject to regulatory rules covering liquidity and capital adequacy and is shown as Bank Cash below.
Cash and Cash Equivalents also includes balances held by the Trustees of the Paragon Employee Share Ownership Plans which may only be used to invest in the shares of the Company, pursuant to the aims of those plans.
The total consolidated Cash and Cash Equivalents balance may be analysed as shown below: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Free cash 366.5 199.9 177.3 Securitisation cash 537.1 530.9 609.0 Bank cash 331.6 323.3 60.6 ESOP cash 2.4 1.9 1.9 1,237.6 1,056.0 848.8 The Cash and Cash Equivalents amount of 361.3m 2015: 196.8m shown in the Company balance sheet is included in Free Cash.
Cash and Cash Equivalents includes current bank balances, money market placements and fixed rate sterling term deposits with London banks, and balances with the Bank of England.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 263 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 43.
Called-Up Share Capital The share capital of the Company consists of a single class of 1 ordinary shares.
Movements in the issued share capital in the year were: 2016 2015 Number Number Ordinary shares At 1 October 2015 309,349,316 307,308,283 Shares issued 218,872 2,041,033 Shares cancelled 13,716,094 - At 30 September 2016 295,852,094 309,349,316 During the year the Company issued 163,045 shares at par 2015: 1,050,000 to the trustees of its Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trust in order that they could fulfil their obligations under the Groups share based award arrangements.
It also issued 55,827 shares 2015: 991,033 to satisfy options granted under sharesave schemes for a consideration of 68,070 2015: 1,365,944.
On 18 August 2016 13,716,094 shares held in treasury were cancelled by the Company.
Reserves a The Group Note 2016 2015 2014 m m m Share premium account 45 64.6 64.6 64.1 Capital redemption reserve 46 13.7 - - Merger reserve 47 70.2 70.2 70.2 Cash flow hedging reserve 48 2.1 1.9 0.6 Profit and loss account 49 725.9 767.7 693.5 736.1 760.2 688.0 b The Company Note 2016 2015 2014 m m m Share premium account 45 64.6 64.6 64.1 Capital redemption reserve 46 13.7 - - Merger reserve 47 23.7 23.7 23.7 Profit and loss account 49 415.5 456.6 416.0 470.1 497.5 456.4 PAGE 264 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 45.
Capital Redemption Reserve The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Balance at 1 October 2015 - - - - Arising on cancellation of shares 13.7 - 13.7 - Balance at 30 September 2016 13.7 - 13.7 - 47.
Merger Reserve The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Balance at 1 October 2015 70.2 70.2 23.7 23.7 Balance at 30 September 2016 70.2 70.2 23.7 23.7 The merger reserve arose, due to the provisions of UK company law at the time, on a group restructuring on 12 May 1989 when the Company became the parent entity of the Group.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 265 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 48.
Cash Flow Hedging Reserve The Group The Company Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m At 1 October 2015 1.9 0.6 - - Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives 5.0 3.1 - - Deferred tax thereon 27 1.0 0.6 - - Balance at 30 September 2016 2.1 1.9 - - The cash flows to which these amounts relate result from the cross currency basis swaps described in note 7.
The contractual life of these swaps, over which cash flows might take place and affect profit, extend over the next 28 years 2015: 29 years.
However the cash flows in respect of these swaps will only continue for as long as the related notes remain outstanding, which is expected to be a much shorter period.
Foreign exchange losses of 699.9m on asset backed loan notes denominated in US dollars and euros 2015: gains of 30.8m have been taken to the cash flow hedging reserve together with equal and opposite movements on the cross currency basis swaps used to hedge these liabilities.
Profit and Loss Account The Group The Company Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m At 1 October 2015 767.7 693.5 456.6 416.0 Dividends paid 50 33.9 29.1 33.9 29.1 Share options exercised 51 3.7 6.1 - - Charge for share based remuneration 18 4.4 4.5 4.4 4.5 Cancellation of shares 94.0 - 94.0 - Tax on share based remuneration 27 0.2 1.2 - - Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligation 56 30.4 3.4 - - Profit for the year 116.0 107.1 82.4 65.2 At 30 September 2016 725.9 767.7 415.5 456.6 PAGE 266 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 50.
Equity Dividend Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the Group and the Company in the period: 2016 2015 2016 2015 Per share Per share m m Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 7.4p 6.0p 21.7 18.3 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2016 4.3p 3.6p 12.2 10.8 11.7p 9.6p 33.9 29.1 Amounts paid and proposed in respect of the year: 2016 2015 2016 2015 Per share Per share m m Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2016 4.3p 3.6p 12.2 10.8 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2016 9.2p 7.4p 25.5 21.8 13.5p 11.0p 37.7 32.6 Dividends of 0.0m 2015: 0.0m were paid by the Company in respect of shares held by ESOP trusts on which dividends had not been waived.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2016 will be paid on 13 February 2017, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, with a record date of 6 January 2017.
The dividend will be recognised in the accounts when it is paid.
Transactions in Shares The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Awards from ESOP schemes Proceeds - - - - Cost of shares transferred note 52 3.7 6.1 - - Deficit on exercise note 49 3.7 6.1 - - Shares issued Nominal value note 43 0.3 2.0 0.3 2.0 Premium on issue note 45 - 0.5 - 0.5 Proceeds of issue 0.3 2.5 0.3 2.5 Deficit surplus on transactions in own shares 3.4 3.6 0.3 2.5 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 267 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 52.
These shares do not qualify for dividends.
The ESOP shares are held in trust for the benefit of employees exercising their options under the Companys share option schemes and awards under the Paragon Performance Share Plan, Matching Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan.
The trustees costs are included in the operating expenses of the Group.
Options, or other share-based awards, were outstanding against 3,594,175 of these shares at 30 September 2016 2015: 1,562,571.
The dividends on all of these shares have been waived 2015: 1,160,866.
PAGE 268 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 53.
Financial Liabilities a The Group Note 2016 2015 2014 m m m Current liabilities Corporate bonds 110.0 - - Retail deposits 54 1,017.1 338.9 53.3 Bank loans and overdrafts 1.2 0.7 1.1 1,128.3 339.6 54.4 Non-current liabilities Asset backed loan notes 8,374.1 8,274.6 8,115.0 Corporate bond 149.0 110.0 110.0 Retail bonds 295.3 294.9 183.2 Retail deposits 54 856.8 369.8 6.8 Fair value adjustments from portfolio hedging 37 0.8 - - Bank loans and overdrafts 1,573.0 1,425.4 1,397.9 Derivative financial instruments 39 15.8 6.7 1.1 11,264.8 10,481.4 9,814.0 A maturity analysis of the above borrowings and further details of asset backed loan notes, bank loans, corporate and retail bonds are given in note 55. b The Company Note 2016 2015 2014 m m m Current liabilities Corporate bonds 110.0 - - Non-current liabilities Corporate bond 149.0 110.0 110.0 Retail bonds 295.3 294.9 183.2 444.3 404.9 293.2 A maturity analysis of the above borrowings and further details of corporate and retail bonds are given in note 55.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 269 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 54.
Retail Deposits The Groups retail deposits, held by Paragon Bank PLC, were received from customers in the UK and are denominated in sterling.
The deposits comprise principally term deposits and 120 day notice accounts.
The method of interest calculation on these deposits is analysed as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Fixed rate 1,332.5 508.3 39.8 Variable rates 541.4 200.4 20.3 1,873.9 708.7 60.1 The weighted average interest rate on retail deposits at 30 September 2016, analysed by charging method, was: 2016 2015 2014 % % % Fixed rate 2.11 2.33 1.90 Variable rates 1.65 1.62 1.85 The contractual maturity of these deposits is analysed below.
2016 2015 2014 m m m Amounts repayable In less than three months 55.7 9.1 - In more than three months but not more than one year 690.3 242.6 52.8 In more than one year, but not more than two years 572.9 181.7 6.8 In more than two years, but not more than five years 283.9 188.1 - Total term deposits 1,602.8 621.5 59.6 Repayable on demand 271.1 87.2 0.5 1,873.9 708.7 60.1 Total falling due in less than one year note 53 1,017.1 338.9 53.3 Total falling due in more than one year note 53 856.8 369.8 6.8 1,873.9 708.7 60.1 PAGE 270 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 55.
Borrowings Set out below is the contractual maturity profile of the Groups and the Companys borrowings at 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015: Financial liabilities falling due: In one year In more than In more than In more than Total or less, or on one year, but two years but five years demand not more than not more than two years five years m m m m m The Group 30 September 2016 Bank overdrafts 1.2 - - - 1.2 Bank loans - - 1,573.0 - 1,573.0 Corporate bond 110.0 - - 149.0 259.0 Retail bonds - - 59.5 235.8 295.3 Asset backed loan notes - - 136.8 8,237.3 8,374.1 111.2 - 1,769.3 8,622.1 10,502.6 30 September 2015 Bank overdrafts 0.7 - - - 0.7 Bank loans - 112.9 139.0 1,173.5 1,425.4 Corporate bond - 110.0 - - 110.0 Retail bonds - - - 294.9 294.9 Asset backed loan notes - 63.7 - 8,210.9 8,274.6 0.7 286.6 139.0 9,679.3 10,105.6 The Company 30 September 2016 Corporate bond 110.0 - - 149.0 259.0 Retail bonds - - 59.5 235.8 295.3 110.0 - 59.5 384.8 554.3 30 September 2015 Corporate bond - 110.0 - - 110.0 Retail bonds - - - 294.9 294.9 - 110.0 - 294.9 404.9 The fair values of borrowings are not considered to be significantly different to their carrying values and the EIRs are not materially different to the rates charged.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 271 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS a Asset backed loan notes The asset backed loan notes are secured on portfolios comprising variable and fixed rate mortgages or personal, retail and car loans.
The maturity date of the notes matches the maturity date of the underlying assets except as noted below.
The notes can be prepaid in part from time to time, but such prepayments are limited to the net capital received from borrowers in respect of the underlying assets.
There is no requirement for the Group to make good any shortfall on the notes out of general funds.
It is likely that a substantial proportion of these notes will be repaid within five years.
For its public issues, the Group has an additional option to repay all of the notes at an earlier date the call date, at their outstanding principal amount.
Interest is payable at a fixed margin above: The London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR on notes denominated in sterling The Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR on notes denominated in euros The London Interbank Offered Rate US Dollar LIBOR on notes denominated in US dollars All payments in respect of the notes are required to be made in the currency in which they are denominated.
On 20 October 2015, a Group company, Idem Luxembourg No.
8 entered into an agreement under which 117.3m of sterling floating rate notes have been issued to Citibank NA on a limited recourse basis.
These notes bear interest at a rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.50%.
The Group investment in this company to support these notes was 84.9m.
The facility was used to refinance existing Idem Capital borrowings and to refinance further existing Idem Capital unsecured loan assets and is secured on those assets.
During the period two further tranches of 4.1m and 70.8m of notes were issued under the facility.
Both of these issues were used to fund the purchase of loan balances from third parties.
On 19 November 2015, a Group company, Paragon Mortgages No.
24 PLC, issued 125.0m of euro mortgage backed floating rate notes and 253.0m of sterling mortgage backed floating rate notes to external investors at par.
The euro notes were class A1 notes, rated AAA by Fitch and Aaa by Moodys and bearing interest at 1.10% above EURIBOR.
208.3m of the sterling notes were class A2 notes, rated AAA by Fitch and Aaa by Moodys, 19.3m were class B notes, rated AA by Fitch and Aa2 by Moodys and 25.4m were class C notes rated A by Fitch and A1 by Moodys.
The interest margins above LIBOR on the sterling notes were 1.50% on the A2 notes, 2.45% on the B notes and 3.20% on the C notes.
Cross-currency basis swaps were entered into at the time of the transaction, effectively translating the euro notes into a LIBOR linked sterling liability.
The average interest margin on the transaction, taking swap costs into account was 1.75% and the proceeds were used to pay down existing warehouse debt.
The Group retained 8.8m of class Z notes and also invested 8.7m in the first loss fund, bringing its total investment to 17.5m, or 5.0% of the issued notes.
PAGE 272 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Notes in issue at 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015, net of any held by the Group, were: Issuer Maturity Call Principal Average interest date date outstanding margin 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sterling notes m m % % Paragon Mortgages No.
8 15 10 18 N A 137.6 - 3.50 - Issuer Maturity Call Principal Average interest date date outstanding margin 2016 2015 2016 2015 US dollar notes $m $m % % Paragon Mortgages No.
6 PLC 01 12 35 01 03 08 9.4 10.1 0.56 0.56 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 273 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Issuer Maturity Call Principal Average interest date date outstanding margin 2016 2015 2016 2015 Euro notes m m % % Paragon Mortgages No.
3 PLC 15 04 36 15 04 09 61.6 74.6 0.84 0.84 Although the maturity date of these notes may be earlier than the potential final redemption date of the underlying loans, repayment cannot be enforced except to the extent that cash can be realised from those assets at that time.
During the period certain trigger events, specified in the terms and condition of the notes, occurred which meant that all cash flows relating to the class a1 dollar notes issued by Paragon Mortgages No.
10 PLC would in future be payable in sterling, as though they had been issued at the equivalent sterling amount as described in note 7.
The swap arrangements in the company mean that this change has no impact on the Groups exposure, but the loans are reported as sterling notes in the table above, whereas in 2015 they had been reported as US dollar notes.
All of the notes listed above are rated and publicly listed, except for those issued by Idem Capital Securities No.
1, Idem First Finance Limited and Idem Luxembourg No.
The notes outstanding at 30 September 2016 can be analysed as follows: 2016 2015 Listed Not listed Total Listed Not listed Total m m m m m m Secured on mortgage assets 8,095.6 - 8,095.6 8,008.8 - 8,008.8 Secured on other assets 141.7 136.8 278.5 162.9 102.9 265.8 8,237.3 136.8 8,374.1 8,171.7 102.9 8,274.6 The details of the assets backing these securities are given in notes 33 and 34.
The Group publishes detailed information on the performance of all of its listed note issues on the Bond Investor Reporting section of its website at www.
A more detailed description of the securitisation structure under which these notes are issued is given in note 7.
PAGE 274 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b Bank borrowings First mortgage assets are typically securitised within twelve months of origination.
Prior to securitisation new first mortgage loans are financed by a bank loan, referred to as a warehouse facility, which is drawn down on completion of the loans and repaid when the assets are securitised or refinanced by an internal asset sale.
More information on this process is given in note 7 and details of assets held within the warehouse facilities are given in note 33.
Details of the Groups bank borrowings are given below.
2016 2015 Maximum Maximum Principal Carrying Principal Carrying available available value value value value facility facility m m m m m m i Paragon Second Funding 1,086.3 1,086.3 1,086.3 1,173.5 1,173.5 1,173.5 ii Paragon Fourth Funding 143.0 300.0 143.0 140.0 300.0 139.0 iii Paragon Fifth Funding 223.0 350.0 221.3 114.0 350.0 112.9 iv Paragon Sixth Funding - - - - 100.0 0.3 v Paragon Seventh Funding 123.0 200.0 122.4 - 200.0 0.7 1,575.3 1,936.3 1,573.0 1,427.5 2,123.5 1,424.4 i The Paragon Second Funding warehouse was available for further drawings until 29 February 2008 at which point it converted automatically to a term loan and no further drawings were allowed.
This loan is a sterling facility provided to Paragon Second Funding Limited by a consortium of banks and is secured on all the assets of Paragon Second Funding Limited, Paragon Car Finance 1 Limited and Paragon Personal Finance 1 Limited.
Its final repayment date is 28 February 2050 but it is likely that substantial repayments will be made within the next five years.
Interest on this loan is payable monthly in sterling at 0.675% above LIBOR 2015: 0.675% above LIBOR.
Repayments of this facility before the final repayment date are restricted to the amount of principal cash realised from the funded assets.
ii On 27 September 2010 the Group entered into a 200.0m committed sterling facility provided to Paragon Fourth Funding Limited by Macquarie Bank PLC to provide funding for new lending, which was increased to 250.0m in 2012 and to 300.0m on 8 May 2015.
This facility is secured on all the assets of Paragon Fourth Funding Limited and is available for drawing for a period of two years and has a term of four years.
Loans originated in this warehouse are refinanced in the mortgage backed securitisation market from time to time when appropriate or by an internal asset sale.
Interest on this loan was payable monthly in sterling at 2.875% above LIBOR until the facility was renewed, on substantially the same terms, with a reduced margin of 1.750% above three month LIBOR, with effect from 12 December 2014 for a further two year period.
The facility has a renewal process that allows the Group to agree a new two year commitment period prior to the expiry of the existing commitment period.
Repayments on this facility are limited to principal cash received from the funded assets.
iii On 26 September 2012, the Group entered into a 200.0m committed sterling facility provided to Paragon Fifth Funding Limited by the wholesale division of Lloyds Bank, which was renewed in January 2014.
On 15 May 2015 the facility was increased to 350.0m, and certain other changes were made to its terms.
The facility was renewed in 2016, but without changes to its terms.
This facility is secured on all the assets of Paragon Fifth Funding Limited and is structured with a three year term to permit drawings and re-drawings until June 2018.
Interest on this loan was payable monthly in sterling at 2.75% above three month LIBOR until January 2014, when the margin was reduced to 1.75%.
As part of the May 2015 amendment to the facility this margin will increase to 2.15% for advances on the facility between 300.0m and 350.0m.
The facility had a renewal process that allows the Group to agree a new commitment period prior to the expiry of the existing commitment period.
As with the other warehouses, repayments on this facility are limited to principal cash received from the funded assets.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 275 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS iv On 30 April 2014, a Group company, Paragon Sixth Funding Limited, entered into an additional 100.0m committed sterling facility with Natixis.
This facility was terminated in the period.
The facility was secured on all the assets of Paragon Sixth Funding Limited and was available for a twelve month period, which was extended to 24 months when a refinancing target was met.
Loans originated in this warehouse were refinanced in the mortgage backed securitisation market from time to time when appropriate.
This facility bore interest at a rate of three month LIBOR plus 1.40%.
As with the other warehouses, repayments on this facility were limited to principal cash received from the funded assets.
At 30 September 2015 no amounts were drawn on this facility, therefore unamortised debit EIR adjustments were included in other receivables note 40. v On 26 September 2015, a Group company, Paragon Seventh Funding Limited, entered into an additional 200.0m committed sterling facility with Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited.
This facility is secured on all the assets of Paragon Seventh Funding Limited and is available for drawings and redrawings until 8 October 2017.
This facility bears interest at a rate of three month LIBOR plus 1.30%.
The facility has a renewal process that allows the Group to agree a new commitment period prior to the expiry of the existing commitment period.
At 30 September 2015 no amounts were drawn on this facility, therefore unamortised debit EIR adjustments were included in other receivables note 40.
The weighted average margin above LIBOR on bank borrowings at 30 September 2016 was 0.974% 2015: 0.866%.
c Corporate bonds A summary of the Companys corporate bonds is set out below: Maturity date Current Interest terms Currency 2016 2015 m m 20 April 2017 3.729% p. a. fixed GBP 110.0 110.0 9 September 2026 7.250% p. a. fixed GBP 150.0 - 260.0 110.0 On 9 September 2016 the Company issued 150.0m of 7.25% Fixed Rate Reset Callable Subordinated Tier 2 Notes at par to provide long term capital for the Group.
These bonds bear interest at a fixed rate of 7.25% per annum until 9 September 2021, after which interest will be payable at a fixed rate which is 6.731% over the sterling 5-year mid-market swap rate at that time.
These bonds are unsecured and subordinated to any other creditors of the Company.
At issue the Notes were rated BB by Fitch.
At 30 September 2016 149.0m 2015: nil, 2014: nil was included within the financial liabilities of the Company and the Group in respect of these bonds.
Cash received on the issue of these bonds was 149.0m net of issue costs note 63.
On 20 April 2005 the Company issued 120.0m of 7% Callable Subordinated Notes at an issue price of 99.347% to provide long term capital for the Group.
These bonds bore interest at a fixed rate of 7% per annum until 20 April 2012, after which interest was payable at a fixed rate of 3.729% per annum.
The bonds are repayable on 20 April 2017.
They are unsecured and subordinated to any other creditors of the Company.
At 30 September 2016 110.0m 2015: 110.0m, 2014: 110.0m was included within the financial liabilities of the Company and the Group in respect of these bonds.
PAGE 276 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS d Retail bonds On 11 February 2013 the Company inaugurated a 1,000.0m Euro Medium Term Note Programme under which it may issue retail bonds, or other notes, within a twelve month period.
The prospectus was updated, renewing the programme for a further twelve month period on 22 January 2016.
The terms of issue for each tranche of notes are separately determined.
These bonds are listed on the London Stock Exchange and have a fixed term, but are callable at the option of the Company.
A summary of the retail bonds outstanding under this programme is given below.
Maturity date Interest terms Issue price Currency 2016 2015 m m 5 December 2020 6.000% p. a. fixed par GBP 60.0 60.0 30 January 2022 6.125% p. a. fixed par GBP 125.0 125.0 28 August 2024 6.000% p. a. fixed par GBP 112.5 112.5 297.5 297.5 The notes are unsubordinated unsecured liabilities of the Company and the amount included in Financial Liabilities in the accounts of the Group and the Company in respect of these bonds is 292.8m 2015: 294.9m.
Retirement Benefit Obligations a Defined benefit plan - description The Group operates a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK the Plan.
The Plan assets are held in a separate fund, administered by a corporate trustee, to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The Trustee of the Plan is required by law to act in the best interests of the Plans beneficiaries and is responsible for the investment policy adopted in respect of the Plans assets.
The appointment of directors to the Trustee is determined by the Plans trust documentation.
The Group has a policy that one third of all directors of the Trustee should be nominated by active and pensioner members of the Plan.
Employees who are members of the Plan are entitled to receive a pension of 1 60 of their final basic annual salary for every year of eligible service to a maximum of 2 3.
Dependants of members of the Plan are eligible for a dependants pension and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The principal actuarial risks to which the Plan is exposed are: Investment risk The risk that income is generated on the Plans investments at a rate lower than the rate at which the defined benefit liability is calculated, which would cause an increased deficit in the Plan.
The Trustee keeps the allocation of the Plans investments under review to manage this risk on a long term basis Interest risk A decrease in bond yields will reduce the discount rate used in valuing the deficit and hence increase the Plan liability Inflation risk A rise in inflation will increase the benefits payable to Plan members, which would increase the Plan liability The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 277 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Longevity risk The value of the Plan deficit is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality rate among Plan members both during and after employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the members would increase the deficit in the Plan Salary risk The valuation of the Plan assumes a level of future salary increases based on a premium over the expected rate of inflation.
Should the salaries of Plan members increase at a higher rate then the deficit will be higher The risks relating to death in service payments are insured with an external insurance company.
As a result of the Plan having been closed to new entrants since February 2002, the service cost as a percentage of pensionable salaries is expected to increase as the average age of active members rises over time.
However the membership is expected to reduce so that the service cost in monetary terms will gradually reduce.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Plans liabilities, obtained by the Trustee, was carried out at 31 March 2013, by Mercer, an independent actuary.
This showed that the value of the Plans liabilities on a buy-out basis in accordance with section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004 was 144.5m, with a shortfall against the assets of 67.2m.
A further actuarial valuation, as at 31 March 2016 is currently in progress.
Following the 2013 actuarial valuation, the Trustee put in place a recovery plan.
The Trustees recovery plan aims to meet the statutory funding objective within six years and five months from the date of valuation, that is by 31 August 2019. b Defined benefit plan financial impact For accounting purposes the valuation at 31 March 2013 was updated to 30 September 2016 in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised by Mercer.
The major categories of assets in the Plan at 30 September 2016, 30 September 2015 and 30 September 2014 and their fair values were: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Cash 9.7 0.4 0.9 Equity instruments 56.0 56.3 56.4 Debt instruments 29.5 25.7 24.0 Real estate 8.9 8.7 7.4 Total fair value of Plan assets 104.1 91.1 88.7 Present value of Plan liabilities 162.5 112.6 106.0 Deficit in the Plan 58.4 21.5 17.3 At 30 September 2016 the Plan assets were invested in a diversified portfolio that consisted primarily of equity and debt investments.
The majority of the equities held by the Plan are in developed markets.
All investments of the Plan have quoted market prices in an active market, and are thus considered to be Level 1 financial instruments as defined by IFRS 13.
PAGE 278 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The movement in the fair value of the Plan assets during the year was as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 October 2015 91.1 88.7 Interest on Plan assets 3.6 3.6 Cash flows Contributions by Group 3.2 3.2 Contributions by Plan members 0.2 0.3 Benefits paid 1.3 2.2 Administration expenses paid 0.4 0.7 Remeasurement gain Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in interest 7.7 1.8 At 30 September 2016 104.1 91.1 The actual return on Plan assets in the year ended 30 September 2016 was 11.3m 2015: 1.8m.
The movement in the present value of the Plan liabilities during the year was as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 October 2015 112.6 106.0 Current service cost 1.7 1.7 Funding cost 4.4 4.3 Cash flows Contributions by Plan members 0.2 0.3 Benefits paid 1.3 2.2 Remeasurement loss gain Arising from demographic assumptions - - Arising from financial assumptions 44.9 2.5 Arising from experience adjustments - - At 30 September 2016 162.5 112.6 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 279 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The liabilities of the Plan are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the Plan using the Projected Unit method.
This amount is reflected in the liability in the balance sheet.
The Projected Unit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the Plan liabilities are calculated based on service up until the valuation date allowing for future salary growth until the date of retirement, withdrawal or death, as appropriate.
The future service rate is then calculated as the contribution rate required to fund the service accruing over the next year again allowing for future salary growth.
The major weighted average assumptions used by the actuary were in nominal terms : 30 September 30 September 30 September 2016 2015 2014 In determining net pension cost for the year Discount rate 3.90% 4.10% 4.50% Rate of compensation increase 3.55% 3.65% 3.80% Rate of price inflation 3.05% 3.15% 3.30% Rate of increase of pensions 3.00% 3.05% 3.20% In determining benefit obligations Discount rate 2.40% 3.90% 4.10% Rate of compensation increase 3.50% 3.55% 3.65% Rate of price inflation 3.00% 3.05% 3.15% Rate of increase of pensions 2.95% 3.00% 3.05% Further life expectancy at age 60 - Male member aged 60 29 29 29 - Female member aged 60 31 31 31 - Male member aged 40 32 32 32 - Female member aged 40 34 34 34 The amounts charged in the consolidated income statement in respect of the Plan are: Note 2016 2015 m m Current service cost 18 1.7 1.7 Administration expenses 0.4 0.7 Included within operating expenses 2.1 2.4 Funding cost of Plan liabilities 4.4 4.3 Interest on Plan assets 3.6 3.6 Net interest expense 14 0.8 0.7 Components of defined benefit costs recognised in profit or loss 2.9 3.1 PAGE 280 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the Plan are: Note 2016 2015 m m Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in interest 7.7 1.8 Actuarial losses gains Arising from demographic assumptions - - Arising from financial assumptions 44.9 2.5 Arising from experience adjustments - - Total actuarial loss 37.2 4.3 Tax thereon 27 6.8 0.9 Net actuarial loss 49 30.4 3.4 c Defined benefit plan future cash flows The sensitivity of the valuation of the defined benefit obligation to the principal assumptions disclosed above at 30 September 2016, calculating the obligation on the same basis as used in determining the IAS 19 value, is as follows: Assumption Increase in Impact on assumption scheme liabilities Discount rate 0.1% p. a.
2.3% decrease Rate of inflation 0.1% p. a.
2.3% decrease Rate of salary growth 0.1% p. a.
0.4% increase Rates of mortality 1 year of life expectancy 2.8% increase maintaining a 0.5% assumption for real salary growth The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of an actual future change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation as some of the assumptions will be correlated.
There has been no change in the method of preparing the analysis from that adopted in previous years.
In conjunction with the Trustee, the Group has continued to conduct asset-liability reviews of the Plan.
These studies are used to assist the Trustee and the Group to determine the optimal long-term asset allocation with regard to the structure of liabilities within the Plan.
The results of the studies are used to assist the Trustee in managing the volatility in the underlying investment performance and risk of a significant increase in the scheme deficit by providing information used to determine the investment strategy of the Plan.
There have been no changes in the processes by which the Plan manages its risks from previous periods.
The target asset allocations for the year ending 30 September 2017 are 62% growth assets primarily equities, 30% bonds and 8% real estate.
The rate of employee contributions to the Plan is 5.0% of pensionable salaries.
Before 8 October 2013 the agreed rate of employer contributions was 26.6% of gross salaries for participating employees with an additional contribution of 1.5m per annum paid by monthly instalments.
After 8 October 2013, following the finalisation of the March 2013 valuation, employer contributions rose to 27.0% of gross salaries for participating employees, the 1.5m per annum contribution remained in place and a further additional contribution of 0.4m per annum to cover administration and life cover was agreed.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 281 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The present best estimate of the contributions to be made to the Plan by the Group in the year ending 30 September 2017 is 3.2m.
This is based on the current rates of contribution and may change following the completion of the ongoing 2016 triennial valuation.
The average duration of the benefit obligations in the Plan at the year end are shown in the table below: 2016 2015 Years Years Category of member Active members 26 24 Deferred pensioners 26 25 Current pensioners 16 15 All members 24 23 d Defined contribution arrangements The Group sponsors a defined contribution Worksave pension scheme, open to all employees who are not members of the Plan.
The Group successfully completed the auto-enrolment process mandated by the UK Government in November 2013, using this scheme.
The acquired PBAF business also sponsors a number of defined contribution pension plans and makes contributions to these schemes in respect of employees.
The assets of these schemes are not Group assets and are held separately from those of the Group, under the control of independent trustees.
Contributions made by the Group to these schemes in the year ended 30 September 2016, which represent the total cost charged against income, were 1.8m 2015: 0.6m note 18.
Deferred Tax a The Group The movements in the net deferred tax liability are as follows: Note 2016 2015 2014 m m m Net liability at 1 October 2015 11.3 10.1 9.9 Acquisitions 8 3.5 - - Income statement charge 24 0.4 1.8 1.1 Credit charge to equity 27 5.4 0.6 0.9 Net liability at 30 September 2016 2.0 11.3 10.1 PAGE 282 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The net deferred tax liability for which provision has been made is analysed as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Accelerated tax depreciation 4.2 0.4 0.5 Retirement benefit obligations 11.1 4.3 3.5 Impairment and other provisions 16.4 16.6 15.8 Tax losses 0.2 0.3 0.5 Other timing differences 1.1 0.3 1.2 Net deferred tax liability 2.0 11.3 10.1 As stated in note 24 legislation has been introduced to reduce the standard rate of UK corporation tax firstly to 19.0% with effect from 1 April 2017 and subsequently to 17.0% from 1 April 2020.
The temporary differences have been provided at the rate prevailing when the Group anticipates the temporary difference to reverse.
In the event that the temporary differences actually reverse in different periods a credit or charge will arise in a future period to reflect the difference.
The timing of reversal of temporary differences will be affected by both matters within the Groups control eg the timing and nature of the refinancing of certain portfolios and matters outside the Groups control eg the level of redemptions of finance leases.
If temporary differences reverse within Paragon Bank PLC in a period in which it is subject to the banking surcharge, then the impact of the reversal will be at a tax rate that includes the surcharge.
The deferred tax numbers above do not include any material temporary differences in Paragon Bank PLC.
In addition, the Group has tax losses of 1.7m 2015: 1.7m in entities whose current taxable profits are insufficient to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset.
b The Company The movements in the net deferred tax liability are as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Net liability at 1 October 2015 1.9 1.8 1.8 Income statement charge - 0.1 - Net liability at 30 September 2016 1.9 1.9 1.8 The net deferred tax liability for which provision has been made is analysed as follows: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Other timing differences 1.9 1.9 1.8 Net deferred tax liability 1.9 1.9 1.8 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 283 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 58.
Other Liabilities a The Group 2016 2015 2014 m m m Current liabilities Accrued interest 26.1 23.9 23.1 Deferred income 1.3 0.1 0.1 Deferred consideration 1.9 - - Trade creditors 3.8 - - Conduct note 60 1.9 - - Other accruals 19.6 17.7 16.0 Other taxation and social security 1.7 1.3 0.9 56.3 43.0 40.1 Non-current liabilities Accrued interest 6.5 - - Deferred income 1.7 0.1 0.2 Contingent liabilities 13.7 - - Other accruals 0.5 - - 22.4 0.1 0.2 Accrued interest, contingent liabilities and other accruals fall within the definition of other financial liabilities set out in IAS 32 and IAS 39 and their fair values are not considered to be materially different to their carrying values.
PAGE 284 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b The Company 2016 2015 2014 m m m Current liabilities Amounts owed to Group companies 168.5 244.7 193.1 Accrued interest 4.7 4.0 3.4 173.2 248.7 196.5 Accrued interest and other accruals fall within the definition of other financial liabilities set out in IAS 32 and IAS 39 and their fair values are not considered to be materially different to their carrying values.
Conduct Over recent years, in common with other financial services firms, the Group has followed guidance issued by the FCA in respect of redress to customers in respect of the misselling of payment protection insurance PPI, though the sums involved have not been material.
In November 2014 the UK Supreme Court handed down its decision in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited Plevin, which addressed potential liability in respect of PPI claims under section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, where commission charged to the customer was particularly high.
On 2 October 2015 the FCA published a statement outlining proposed rules addressing the handling of PPI cases in the light of the Plevin decision and including a deadline beyond which no further new PPI claims would be required to be considered.
A balance of 1.9m is recognised in other liabilities note 59 in respect of such claims and other section 140 related issues.
The Group has reviewed its current exposure to such matters in the light of the Courts judgement in Plevin and the FCA proposals and its current expectation is that it will suffer no material additional costs from such claims.
However, this assessment is based on our current interpretation of both the Plevin judgement and the draft rules, which may be revised before they are expected to be finalised and brought into force at the end of December 2016, while interpretations may develop as both the judgement and the rules are implemented.
Therefore it is possible that the maximum possible liability may be greater.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 285 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 61.
Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities a The Group 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 143.2 134.2 Non-cash items included in profit and other adjustments: Depreciation of operating property, plant and equipment 1.9 1.5 Profit on disposal of operating property, plant and equipment 0.1 - Amortisation of intangible assets 1.6 1.4 Foreign exchange movement on borrowings 699.9 30.8 Other non-cash movements on borrowings 14.3 4.8 Impairment losses on loans to customers 7.7 5.6 Charge for share based remuneration 4.4 4.5 Net increase decrease in operating assets: Operating lease assets 5.4 - Loans to customers 443.0 810.9 Derivative financial instruments 706.3 33.8 Fair value of portfolio hedges 7.3 4.7 Other receivables 2.1 0.4 Net decrease increase in operating liabilities: Retail deposits 1,165.2 648.6 Derivative financial instruments 9.1 5.6 Fair value of portfolio hedges 0.8 - Other liabilities 4.9 2.7 Cash generated utilised by operations 888.8 3.3 Income taxes paid 23.6 22.6 865.2 25.9 Cash flows relating to plant and equipment held for leasing under operating leases are classified as operating cash flows.
PAGE 286 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b The Company 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 82.9 67.7 Non-cash items included in profit and other adjustments: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.3 Non-cash movements on borrowings 0.4 0.4 Impairment losses on investments in subsidiaries 1.0 14.9 Charge for share based remuneration 4.4 4.5 Net decrease increase in operating assets: Other receivables 56.7 37.4 Net decrease increase in operating liabilities: Other liabilities 75.5 52.2 Cash generated by operations 70.3 102.6 Income taxes paid 2.7 2.1 67.6 100.5 62.
Net Cash Flow from Investing Activities The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 0.4 - - - Purchases of property, plant and equipment 1.5 0.7 - - Purchases of intangible assets 1.4 1.2 - - Decrease increase in short term investments 34.0 1.7 - - Movement in loans to subsidiary undertakings - - 206.6 72.2 Acquisitions Note 8 310.1 - - - Investment in subsidiary undertakings - - 174.1 33.0 Net cash utilised generated by investing activities 278.6 3.6 32.5 105.2 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 287 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 63.
Net Cash Flow from Financing Activities The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Shares issued note 43 - 1.5 0.3 2.5 Dividends paid note 50 33.9 29.1 33.9 29.1 Issue of asset backed floating rate notes 531.0 823.8 - - Repayment of asset backed floating rate notes 1,137.2 638.3 - - Issue of retail bonds - 111.3 - 111.3 Issue of corporate bonds 149.0 - 149.0 - Movement on bank facilities 145.5 24.8 - - Purchase of shares note 52 59.9 56.9 51.0 49.7 Net cash utilised generated by financing activities 405.5 237.1 64.4 35.0 64.
Reconciliation of Net Debt This disclosure is provided in response to the work of the Financial Reporting Councils Financial Reporting Lab.
PAGE 288 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b The Company Cash flows Non-cash movements Opening Debt Other Foreign Other Closing debt issued exchange debt m m m m m m 30 September 2016 Corporate bonds 110.0 149.0 - - - 259.0 Retail bonds 294.9 - - - 0.4 295.3 Gross debt 404.9 149.0 - - 0.4 554.3 Cash 196.8 149.0 15.5 - - 361.3 Net debt 208.1 - 15.5 - 0.4 193.0 30 September 2015 Corporate bonds 110.0 - - - - 110.0 Retail bonds 183.2 111.3 - - 0.4 294.9 Gross debt 293.2 111.3 - - 0.4 404.9 Cash 166.5 111.3 81.0 - - 196.8 Net debt 126.7 - 81.0 - 0.4 208.1 Other non-cash changes shown above represent EIR adjustments relating to the spreading of initial costs of the bonds.
Operating Lease Arrangements a As Lessor The Group, through its asset finance business, leases assets under operating leases.
In respect of certain of these assets, the Group also provides maintenance services to the lessee.
Assets subject to these arrangements are shown in note 30 and the income from these activities is shown in note 16.
The future minimum lease payments under these arrangements may be analysed as follows: The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 2.5 - - - Between two and five years 4.7 - - - After more than five years - - - - 7.2 - - - The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 289 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS b As Lessee The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in operating expenses for the year Office buildings 2.1 1.7 - - Motor vehicles 0.3 0.3 - - Office equipment 0.2 0.2 - - 2.6 2.2 - - At 30 September 2016 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: The Group The Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 2.3 2.0 - - Between two and five years 3.4 3.4 - - After more than five years - 0.2 - - 5.7 5.6 - - Operating lease payments represent rents payable by the Group in respect of certain of its office premises and lease payments on company vehicles and equipment.
The average term of the current building leases from inception or acquisition is 5 years 2015: 11 years with rents subject to review every five years, while the average term of the vehicle leases and office equipment is 3 years 2015: 3 years.
PAGE 290 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 66.
Related Party Transactions a The Group Mr A K Fletcher, an independent non-executive director of the Company, is a director of Paragon Pension Plan Trustees Limited, which acts as the corporate trustee of the Paragon Pension Plan the Plan.
Mr Fletcher was appointed a trustee of the Plan on 27 May 2010, and a director of Paragon Pension Trustees Limited on 7 November 2011.
The Plan moved to corporate trusteeship in the first quarter of 2013 at which point all individuals ceased to be trustees of the Plan on their own account.
In respect of this appointment he was paid 10,000 in the year ended 30 September 2016 by Paragon Finance PLC, the sponsoring company of the plan 2015: 10,000.
The Plan is a related party of the Group.
Transactions with the Plan are described in note 56.
The Group had no other transactions with related parties other than the key management compensation disclosed in note 19. b The Company During the year the parent company entered into transactions with its subsidiaries, which are related parties.
Management services were provided to the Company by one of its subsidiaries and the Company granted awards under the share based payment arrangements described in note 20 to employees of subsidiary undertakings.
The Company also issued shares to the trustees of its ESOP trusts, as described in note 43.
Details of the Companys investments in subsidiaries and the income derived from them are shown in notes 31 and 67.
Outstanding current account balances with subsidiaries are shown in notes 40 and 59.
During the year the Company incurred interest costs of 8.9m in respect of borrowings from its subsidiaries 2015: 9.4m.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 291 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS 67.
Details of Subsidiary Undertakings Subsidiary undertakings of the Group at 30 September 2016, where the share capital is held within the Group are shown below.
The holdings shown are those held within the Group.
The shareholdings of the Company in the direct subsidiaries listed below are the same as those held by the Group, except that: for the shareholdings marked the Company holds only 74% of the share capital for the shareholdings marked the Company holds only 66.7% of the share capital In all these cases the remainder is held by other group companies.
The issued share capital of all subsidiaries consists of ordinary share capital, except that those companies marked have additional preference share capital held within the Group.
Company Holding Principal Activity Direct subsidiaries of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Paragon Finance PLC 100% Residential mortgages and asset administration Mortgage Trust Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages 2010 Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Car Finance Limited 100% Vehicle finance Idem Capital Holdings Limited 100% Intermediate holding company Moorgate Servicing Limited 100% Intermediate holding company Paragon Bank PLC 100% Deposit taking, residential mortgages and loan and vehicle finance SPV Securities Limited 100% Asset investment The Business Mortgage Company Limited 100% Mortgage broker Paragon Fourth Funding Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
7 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
8 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
9 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
10 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
11 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
12 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
13 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
14 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
15 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
16 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
17 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Personal and Auto Finance No.
3 PLC 100% Loan and vehicle finance Paragon Secured Finance No.
1 PLC 100% Loan finance First Flexible No.
7 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Collateralised Mortgage Securities No.
12 PLC 100% Non-trading Colonial Finance UK Limited 100% Non-trading PAGE 292 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Company Holding Principal Activity Direct subsidiaries of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Earlswood Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Earlswood Finance No.
2 PLC 100% Non-trading Epsom Trustees Limited 100% Non-trading Finance for People No.
3 Limited 100% Non-trading Finance for People No.
6 PLC 100% Non-trading Homer Funding Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Luxembourg No.
9 100% Non-trading Moorgate Mortgage Servicing Limited 100% Non-trading Mortgage Funding Corporation PLC 100% Non-trading NHL Second Funding Corporation PLC 100% Non-trading NHL Third Funding Corporation PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Car Finance 1 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Credit Management Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Dealer Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Finance Holdings Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Holdings Group Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Loan Finance No.
1 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Loan Finance No.
2 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
1 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
2 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
4 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
5 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
26 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
27 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
31 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
32 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
33 Limited 100% Non-trading The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 293 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Company Holding Principal Activity Direct subsidiaries of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Paragon Mortgages No.
34 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
35 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
36 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
37 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
38 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Pension Plan Trustees Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Personal and Auto Finance No.
2 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Personal Finance 1 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Third Funding Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Vehicle Contracts Limited 100% Non-trading PGC Capital Limited 100% Non-trading Plymouth Funding Limited 100% Non-trading Plymouth Limited 100% Non-trading Redbrick Real Estate Services Limited 100% Non-trading Sancopia Capital Limited 100% Non-trading Sancopia Limited 100% Non-trading TBMC 2 Limited 100% Non-trading Tegic Capital Limited 100% Non-trading Tegic Limited 100% Non-trading Universal Credit Limited 100% Non-trading Yorkshire Freeholds Limited 100% Non-trading Yorkshire Leaseholds Limited 100% Non-trading Company Holding Principal Activity Direct and indirect subsidiaries of Paragon Bank PLC Paragon Bank Asset Finance Limited 100% Holding company and portfolio administration City Business Finance Limited 100% Asset finance Dash Commercial Finance Limited 80% Asset finance Paragon Bank Business Finance PLC 100% Asset finance Paragon Bank Technology Finance Limited 100% Asset finance Premier Asset Finance Limited 100% Asset finance broker Specialist Fleet Services Limited 100% Asset finance and contract hire Capital Professions Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Collett Transport Services Limited 100% Non-trading Fineline Holdings Limited 100% Non-trading Fineline Media Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Homer Management Limited 100% Non-trading Lease Portfolio Management Limited 100% Non-trading PBAF No.
1 Limited 100% Non-trading Print Finance Limited 100% Non-trading State Securities Holding Limited 100% Non-trading State Security Limited 100% Non-trading PAGE 294 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS Company Holding Principal Activity Direct and indirect subsidiaries of Idem Capital Holdings Limited Moorgate Loan Servicing Limited 100% Asset administration Idem No.
3 Limited 100% Asset investment Idem Capital Securities Limited 100% Asset investment Idem First Finance Limited 100% Asset investment Paragon Personal Finance Limited 100% Consumer loan finance Arden Credit Management Limited 100% Non-trading Idem No.
6 Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Asset Management Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Capital Acquisitions Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Capital Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Consumer Loans Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Luxembourg No.
10 100% Non-trading Paragon Personal Finance 2 Limited 100% Non-trading Sancopia Portfolios Limited 100% Non-trading Company Holding Principal Activity Other indirect subsidiary undertakings First Flexible No.
6 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Mortgage Trust Services PLC 100% Residential mortgages and asset administration Paragon Second Funding Limited 100% Residential mortgages and loan and vehicle finance Redbrick Survey and Valuation Limited 100% Surveyors and property consulting Customer Solutions Limited 100% Non-trading Landlordcentre.
co. uk Limited 100% Non-trading LOM Recoveries Limited 100% Non-trading First Resolution Limited 100% Non-trading Moorgate Asset Administration Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Options PLC 100% Non-trading TBMC Group Limited 100% Non-trading The Business Mortgage Company Services Limited 100% Non-trading Tidford Cottages Management Limited 100% Non-trading The financial year end of all of the Groups subsidiary companies is 30 September.
They are all registered in England and Wales and they all operate in the UK except those entities marked which are registered in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
The 20% of the equity of Dash Commercial Finance Limited is subject to a call option agreed as part of the acquisition of the company by PBAF.
No material minority interest attaches to this holding.
As part of the Groups financing arrangements certain mortgage and consumer loans originated by Paragon Mortgages 2010 Limited and Mortgage Trust Limited or acquired by Idem Capital Securities Limited have been sold to special purpose entity companies, which had raised non-recourse finance to fund these purchases.
The shares of these companies are ultimately beneficially owned through independent trusts and are considered to be controlled by the Group, as defined by IFRS 10 and hence they are considered to be subsidiaries of the Group.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 295 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The principal companies party to these arrangements at 30 September 2016 comprise: Company Principal Activity First Flexible No.
4 PLC Residential mortgages First Flexible No.
5 PLC Residential mortgages Idem Capital Securities No.
1 Asset investment Idem Luxembourg No.
8 Asset investment Paragon Fifth Funding Limited Residential mortgages Paragon Sixth Funding Limited Residential mortgages Paragon Seventh Funding Limited Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
18 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
18 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
19 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
19 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
20 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
20 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
21 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
21 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
22 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
22 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
23 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
23 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
24 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
24 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
25 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
25 PLC Residential mortgages Arianty Holdings Limited Holding company Arianty No.
1 Limited Non-trading Arianty Services Limited Non-trading First Flexible No.
1 Limited Non-trading First Flexible No.
2 Limited Non-trading First Flexible No.
3 Limited Non-trading All of these companies are registered and operate in the UK except Idem Capital Securities No.
8 which are registered in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
8 LLP are limited liability partnerships, established under English law, in which all of the members are Group companies.
They are therefore considered to be subsidiary entities.
Both are registered in England and Wales and operate in the UK.
3 Limited, a company limited by guarantee, is registered in England and Wales and operates in the UK.
It is included in the consolidation as it is ultimately controlled by the parent company.
PAGE 296 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts THE ACCOUNTS The Group accounts include the results of two Jersey companies, which are ultimately beneficially owned by a charitable trust, but are considered to be controlled by the Group, using the definition contained in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
These companies, Idem Jersey No.
1 Limited and Idem Jersey No.
2 Limited are registered in the Bailiwick of Jersey and operate in the UK.
The share capital of Idem Jersey No.
1 Limited is divided into A shares and B shares.
All of the 600 B shares are held by Group companies 100 by the parent company and 500 by other Group companies.
All of the entities listed in this note are included in the consolidated accounts of the Group.
Country-by-Country Reporting The Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013 came into effect on 1 January 2014 and place certain reporting obligations on financial institutions that are within the scope of CRD IV.
The objective of the country-by-country reporting requirements is to provide increased transparency regarding the source of the Financial Institutions income and the locations of its operations.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC is a UK registered entity.
Details of its subsidiaries are given in note 67 and the activities of the Group are described in section A2.1.
The activities of the Group, described as required by the Regulations for the year ended 30 September 2016 were: United Kingdom m Year ended 30 September 2016 Total operating income 244.0 Profit before tax 143.2 Tax on profit 27.2 Public subsidies received - Average number of full time equivalent employees 1,175 United Kingdom m Year ended 30 September 2015 Total operating income 211.5 Profit before tax 134.7 Tax on profit 27.1 Public subsidies received - Average number of full time equivalent employees 935 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 297 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Accounts THE ACCOUNTS E. APPENDICES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT Additional financial information supporting amounts shown in the Strategic Review Section A, but not forming part of the Statutory Accounts.
Income Statement Ratios The average net interest margin is calculated as follows: Note 2016 2015 m m Opening loans to customers 35 10,062.4 9,255.9 Closing loans to customers 35 10,737.5 10,062.4 Average loans to customers 10,400.0 9,659.2 Net interest 223.2 197.4 Net interest margin 2.15% 2.04% Impairment provision 22 7.7 5.6 Impairment as a percentage of average loan balance 0.07% 0.06% B.
Cost:income Ratio Cost:income ratio is derived as follows: Note 2016 2015 m m Cost operating expenses 17 92.5 71.2 Total operating income 244.0 211.5 Cost income 37.9% 33.7% Underlying cost:income ratio excluding the impact of acquisition costs is derived as follows: Note 2016 2015 m m Cost operating expenses 17 92.5 71.2 Acquisition related costs 2.7 - 89.8 71.2 Total operating income 244.0 211.5 Acquisition related charges in income 0.4 - 244.4 211.5 Cost Income 36.7% 33.7% Cost:income ratio excluding the impact of the acquired business is derived as follows: Note 2016 2015 m m Cost operating expenses 17 92.5 71.2 Operating expenses of PBAF 11 18.2 - 74.3 71.2 Total operating income 244.0 211.5 Operating income of PBAF 11 24.9 - 219.1 211.5 Cost Income 33.9% 33.7% PAGE 300 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Appendices to the Annual Report 2016 Annual Report and Accounts APPENDICES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT C. Underlying Profit Underlying profit is determined by excluding from the operating result one off costs relating to the acquisitions in the period, and fair value accounting adjustments arising from the Groups hedging arrangements.
Note 2016 2015 m m Paragon Mortgages Profit before tax for the period 11 89.5 93.6 Less: Acquisition related costs - - Less: Fair value losses gains 0.4 0.4 89.9 94.0 Idem Capital Profit before tax for the period 11 45.4 49.3 Less: Acquisition related costs - - Less: Fair value losses gains - - 45.4 49.3 Paragon Bank Profit loss before tax for the period 11 8.3 8.7 Less: Acquisition related costs 3.1 - Less: Fair value losses gains 0.2 0.1 11.6 8.6 Total Profit before tax for the period 11 143.2 134.2 Less: Acquisition related costs 3.1 - Less: Fair value losses gains 0.6 0.5 146.9 134.7 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 301 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Appendices to the Annual Report APPENDICES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT D. Underlying Return On Tangible Equity Excluding Acquisition Costs The underlying RoTE excluding acquisition costs is calculated as follows: Note 2016 2015 m m Profit for the year 116.0 107.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 17 1.6 1.4 117.6 108.5 Acquisition costs 11 3.1 - Tax on allowable costs at effective rate 0.2 - Adjusted profit after tax 120.5 108.5 Average tangible equity 6 913.0 950.5 Underlying Return on Tangible Equity excluding acquisition costs 13.2% 11.4% PAGE 302 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Appendices to the Annual Report 2016 Annual Report and Accounts APPENDICES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT E. NET ASSET VALUE Note 2016 2015 Total equity m 969.5 969.5 Outstanding issued shares m 43 295.8 309.3 Treasury shares m 52 15.3 12.4 Shares held by ESOP schemes m 52 3.6 1.6 276.9 295.3 Net asset value per 1 ordinary share 3.50 3.28 Tangible equity m 6 864.1 961.8 Tangible net asset value per 1 ordinary share 3.12 3.26 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 303 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Appendices to the Annual Report APPENDICES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT F. USEFUL INFORMATION Information which may be helpful to shareholders and other users of the Annual Report and Accounts F1 Glossary Page 306 A summary of abbreviations used in the Annual Report and Accounts.
F2 Shareholder Information Page 308 Information about dividends, meetings and managing shareholdings.
F3 Contacts Page 310 Names and addresses of the Groups advisers.
