OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION 17.
Merchant processing liabilities The merchant processing liabilities arise from the operations of the Payment Processing division totalling $18,547,000 31 December 2015: $16,758,000.
In addition, an equivalent transient amount relating to merchant transactions processed via the Payment Processing operations is included in cash and cash equivalents and settlement assets.
The operations do not fall within the EU definition of e-money nor does a legal right to offset exist between this cash and the corresponding merchant processing liabilities.
Operating segments An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
All operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Groups CEO to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
The Groups operating segments are based on its main revenue generating activities.
For each of the segments, the Groups CEO reviews internal management reports to a gross margin level on a monthly basis.
The following summary describes the operations in each of the Groups reportable segments.
Payment Processing: fees are generated through the Paysafe and Paysafe Asia straight-through processing platforms where customers send money directly to merchants, as well as payolutions online payment services, and the FANS white label technology solutions and consulting services.
Digital Wallets: fees are generated on transactions between members and merchants using the NETELLER service and Net prepaid cards, and the Skrill Wallet and Skrill prepaid cards.
Prepaid: fees are generated from merchants accepting payments made using paysafecard prepaid vouchers and charges to consumers.
