OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 tabular amounts only are in thousands of US dollars, except per share data 1.
Reporting entities NETELLER plc was a private company incorporated under the laws of the Isle of Man IOM on 31 October 2003 and was registered as a public company on 1 April 2004.
NETELLER plc changed its name to NEOVIA Financial Plc on 17 November 2008.
On 1 March 2011 NEOVIA Financial Plc changed its name to Optimal Payments Plc.
On 10 November 2015, Optimal Payments Plc changed its name to Paysafe Group plc the Company.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group are described in Note 2.
The Group includes the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries as set out under Basis of consolidation in Note 4 and Investment in subsidiaries in Note 27.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had 2,116 employees 31 December 2015: 1,578 employees.
Nature of operations The Group provides services to businesses and individuals to allow the online processing of direct debit, credit card and alternative payments.
Included within the Groups suite of products and services are digital wallets which act as a store of value for e-money, and prepaid vouchers.
Paysafe Financial Services Limited FRN:900015, Skrill Limited FRN:900001, and Prepaid Services Company Limited FRN:900021, all wholly-owned subsidiaries of Paysafe Group plc, are authorised by the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority under the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 for the issuing of electronic money and payment instruments.
Skrill International Payments Limited FRN:536371, a wholly-owned subsidiary, is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority as a payment institution.
Paysafe Merchant Services Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary, is licensed by the Financial Services Authority of the Isle of Man Ref.
1357 to carry on money transmission services, and paysafecard.
com Schweiz GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary, is licensed by the Swiss Financial Market Authority as a financial intermediary.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable IOM law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2017.
Statement of going concern These consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared on the going concern basis, as the Board of Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and parent have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
The Directors have also considered the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC to take a broader longer-term view of the risks and uncertainties facing the Groups business in assessing going concern.
The Group borrowed 500,000,000 $548,200,000 in August 2015 to finance the acquisition of the Skrill Group Skrill, one of Europes leading digital payments businesses.
The acquisition has enhanced earnings for the Group and expanded its international market share, and the Directors have also considered this debt requirement as part of the going concern assessment.
The Groups principal activities, business and operating models, strategic direction and key and emerging risks are described in the Strategic Report.
A financial summary, including a review of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and consolidated statement of financial position, is provided in the Chief Financial Officers review section.
The Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing credit, liquidity and market risk along with the Groups approach to capital management and allocation are described in Note 26 of the financial statements.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of the Groups financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, contingencies and the accompanying disclosures at the date of the Groups consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimated.
By their nature, these estimates and judgements are subject to estimation uncertainty and the effect on the Groups financial statements of changes in estimates in future periods could be significant.
Significant estimates and judgements in the Groups financial statements include impairment testing of long-lived assets, sharebased payments, and business combinations.
Impairment testing of long-lived assets requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to determine present value.
