OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Independent Auditors report to the members of Paysafe Group plc only 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements Overview isunmodified Materiality: We have audited the financial statements of Paysafe Group Group financial $5m 2015:$2.5m plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages statements as a whole 3% 2015: 3.8% of profit before tax 99to 142.
In our opinion: 100% 2015:100% of Group Coverage divisions - the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs Recurring risks Revenue recognition asat 31 December 2016 and of the Groups and Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets - the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : and - have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1931-2004.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Our procedures included: Revenue Revenue recognition: $1,000m: 2015: $613m The recognition of revenue by the Group as - Involving our information risk management a result of processing payment transactions specialists to understand, through inquiry, and Refer to pages 68 to 74 conducted on its various operating testing of the operating effectiveness of the AuditCommittee Report and platforms may be misstated.
Revenue information technology general controls page110 accounting policy.
isrecognised on completion of each environment: transaction.
The Group earns revenue from - Testing the operating effectiveness of key multiple streams of transaction type from automated application controls over revenue, contractual relationships with members such as user fees, incentives, foreign exchange and merchants.
The appropriate fees and exceptions: and recognition of revenue is dependent - Agreeing, on a sample basis, the rate inputs for ontheintegrity of the overall information revenue transactions to source relationship technology environments calculating contracts.
revenue on each transaction type correctly, the operating effectiveness of application and core finance processes and controls ofthe Groups operating divisions.
Our procedures included: Goodwill and intangible Impairment of intangibles assets andgoodwill: - Understanding the Groups budgeting Goodwill $1,154m: The group has material balances of procedures, upon which the forecasts are 2015:$1,178m intangible assets and goodwill resulting based, through inquiry and testing the from business acquisitions.
The evaluation mathematical integrity of the Groups Intangible assets $364m: of recoverability of the carrying value at the discounted cash flow model: 2015:$370m year end is dependent on the current and - Critically assessing the key assumptions used future performance of the cash-generating inthe discounted cash flow model against Refer to pages 68 to 74 Audit units of the group.
As such, this requires Committee Report, page 109 current and expected performance trends.
significant judgement by management accounting policy and pages Comparing assumptions to externally derived inforecasting future performance and 112to115 financial disclosures.
data, where appropriate, and to our own evaluating whether the assets recognised assessments of certain key inputs: are impaired.
Key estimates include the rate - Involving our own valuation specialists to assist of growth and discount factor.
us in evaluating the discount rate used: and - Assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment of intangible assets and goodwill to changes in key assumptions appropriately reflected the inherent risks.
