STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual Responsibility statement report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, directors are required to prepare the group financial financial position and profit or loss of the Company and statements in accordance with International Financial the undertakings included in the consolidation taken Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European as a whole: Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements development and performance of the business and the under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the position of the Company and the undertakings included directors must not approve the accounts unless they are in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of description of the principal risks and uncertainties that affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the they face: and Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires the annual report and financial statements, taken as a that directors: whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the properly select and apply accounting policies: Companys performance, business model and strategy.
present information, including accounting policies, in a Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and of the board.
understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Dominic Taylor specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable Chief Executive users to understand the impact of particular 26 May 2016 transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
