OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Trend Key risk Description in 2016 Examples of mitigating activities Link to Paysafe strategy Operational Execution of The risk level has increased following the commencement State-of-the-art Scale of programmes ofa number of key Group-wide strategic programmes.
technology change projects by the The review and restructuring of the current programme business project delivery model is presently underway to introduce the according to a following disciplines into the new delivery model.
pre-defined They are: scope, time or - Improved integrated planning.
cost - Ensuring alignment of business, IT and product stakeholder management and expectations.
- Improved programme management resources with the right skills.
- Ownership, accountability and responsibility atprogramme, project and task levels.
Transaction Maintenance - Provision of Disaster Recovery DR capability for key State-of-the-art and testing of technology and systems has been enhanced and all DR technology processing appropriate sites tested in 2016. contingency - A Group-wide review of Business Continuity Management plans for key BCM status and documentation was started in Q4 2016 business with a remediation exercise driving development processes and ofenterprise-wide policies, processes and procedures recovery of key tocommence in Q1 of 2017. technology and systems following an interruption Compliance The General Data Protection Regulation GDPR Sustainable Data privacy with privacy implementation into UK law is expected in May 2018 will organic growth requirements significantly increase our data protection obligations.
and ability to Toensure compliance with GDPR, the Group is undertaking identify and aseries of reviews in respect of: monitor specific - Ensuring that the level of compliance with data privacy privacy rules around marketing activity to customers is robust regulations following acquisitions and significant business change.
- Performing due diligence of data controls in place at third-party providers particularly data processors.
- Processes to manage cross-border data transfers.
Thisprocess is to be formalised and embedded across theorganisation.
Paysafe has approved embedded data privacy standards at the Group level, and is currently embedding a data retention policy across the Group.
Enhanced e-training on data privacy is being implemented Group wide.
Data Effective The management of big data is a key element of the new State-of-the-art governance and consolidated platform which is under development.
technology governance management of Tosupport this programme, a data mapping exercise across data across the the Group is underway to ascertain the population and organisation location of data sets and identify the lineage of data elements to ensure compliance and effective governance in line with regulation and industry practices.
