Notes to the notice of annual general meeting continued 8.
Biographical details of the directors of the Company are shown on page 25 of the 2016 annual report.
Each member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting which, in accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 and subject to some exceptions, the Company must cause such questions to be answered.
However no such answer need be given if: a t o do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b t he answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c i t is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Information relating to the meeting which the Company is required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the meeting may be viewed at www.
A member may not use any electronic address provided by the Company in this document or with any proxy appointment form or in any website for communicating with the Company for any purpose in relation to the meeting other than as expressly stated in it.
It is possible that, pursuant to members requests made in accordance with section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company will be required to publish on a website a statement in accordance with section 528 of that Act setting out any matter that the members concerned propose to raise at the meeting relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The Company cannot require the members concerned to pay its expenses in complying with those sections.
The Company must forward any such statement to its auditor by the time it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any such statement.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 26 May 2016 was 68,092,729 ordinary shares of pence each, carrying one vote each.
The Company holds no treasury shares or unallocated shares for the purpose of employee share schemes, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company on 26 May 2016 is 68,092,729.
The directors service agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday and will be available at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends Recommendation and voting intentions With respect to resolutions 4 to 10 inclusive, the Chairman confirms that, based on the performance valuation undertaken during the period, each of the retiring directors performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The board has considered this and recommends that each director who wishes to serve again be proposed for re-election.
This opinion is based on an assessment of each directors relevant knowledge and experience and the conclusion that, in each case, their informed opinions are of significant value and contribute greatly to board discussions.
The directors biographies can be found on page 25 of the 2016 annual report.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of those shareholders.
Those directors who are shareholders will be voting in favour of the resolutions and unanimously recommend that you do so as well.
86 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 Explanatory notes to certain of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting Resolution 2: Directors Remuneration Report Shareholders are asked to approve the directors remuneration report that appears on pages 36 to 45 other than the part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy, of the 2016 annual report and accounts.
This vote is advisory, and the directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on it.
Resolution 14: Directors authority to allot shares By virtue of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the directors require the authority of shareholders of the Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares.
The resolution numbered 14 authorises the directors to make allotments of up to 22,697,576 ordinary shares, representing approximately one-third of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at the date of this document.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2017, whichever is the sooner.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority proposed to be conferred pursuant to resolution 14.
Resolution 15: Authority for disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights By virtue of section 561 of the Act, any issue by the Company of equity capital for cash made otherwise than to existing shareholders on a proportional basis requires the consent of shareholders of the Company unless the Company has obtained their authority under sections 570 and 573 of the Act.
The resolution numbered 15 is for that purpose.
It authorises the directors to allot shares by way of rights issue or pursuant to an open offer or otherwise than strictly pro rata when the directors consider that it is expedient to do so and also allows them to issue for cash up to 3,404,636 ordinary shares representing approximately five per cent of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at the date of this document other than on a pre-emptive basis.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority proposed to be conferred pursuant to resolution 15.
Resolution 16: Authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares By virtue of section 701 of the Act, the Company may make market purchases of its own ordinary shares if authorised to do so by shareholders.
Under resolution 16, the directors seek to renew an annual authority to make market purchases of shares: each year the directors will seek to further renew this authority at the Companys annual general meeting.
Any ordinary shares purchased under this authority would either be i cancelled immediately on completion of the purchase and the number of ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly: ii held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act: or iii transferred to an employee benefit trust for the satisfaction of awards under the Companys existing share schemes.
The maximum number of ordinary shares which could be purchased under this authority is 6,809,273, being 10 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at the date of this document.
Any repurchase of ordinary shares carried out by the Company would be at a maximum price per ordinary share of 105 per cent.
of the average middle market price of such a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase, the price equal to the last independent trade or the highest current independent bid and at a minimum price equal to the nominal value.
The authority to repurchase ordinary shares will, if approved by shareholders, only be exercised after careful consideration by the directors and if such exercise would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed, or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2017, whichever is the sooner.
Resolution 17: Authority to allow any general meeting of the Company that is not an annual general to be called on not less than 14 clear days notice The minimum notice period for general meetings of listed companies is 21 days, but companies may reduce this period to 14 days other than for annual general meetings provided that: a the Company offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if the Company has a facility enabling all shareholders to appoint a proxy by means of a website: and b on an annual basis, a shareholders resolution approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 days is passed.
The board is therefore proposing Resolution 17 as a special resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of notice for all general meetings of the Company other than annual general meetings.
The approval of this resolution will be effective until the end of the 2017 annual general meeting of the Company, when it is intended that the approval will be renewed.
The board intends that the shorter notice period will only be used in limited exceptional circumstances which are time-sensitive, rather than as a matter of routine, and only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The directors do not have any current intention to exercise this authority but consider it appropriate to ensure that the Company has the appropriate flexibility to respond to all eventualities.
