OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Directors Report Save as otherwise disclosed above, there are no other The Directors present their Annual significant agreements to which the Company is a party that Report on the affairs of the Company take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
and the Group, together with the audited Group financial statements Employment of disabled persons The Culture and values section on pages 42 to 47 sets out the and Independent Auditors report for Companys policy regarding the employment of disabled the year ended 31 December 2016. persons.
Employee consultation This Directors report covers regulatory, statutory and other Details on employee consultation are included in the Culture information and incorporates the Strategic report and the and values section on pages 42 to 47.
Governance report, which are set out earlier in this Annual Report, by reference.
Supplier policy It is the Groups policy for each of its contracting entities to Strategic report and Governance report agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions A review of the current and future development of the Groups with suppliers by means ranging from standard written terms business is given in the Strategic report on pages 4 to 57. to individually negotiated contracts.
The Group seeks to TheGroups financial and risk management objectives and ensure that payments are always made in accordance with policies are discussed in the Chief Financial Officers review such written terms and conditions.
and Risk management sections starting on pages 23 and 48 respectively.
Information on key performance indicators is set Board of Directors out on pages 16 to 19.
The Groups policies on employee The Directors who served during the year and to date are: matters, health and safety, environmental and community issues and business ethics, are discussed in the Culture and Dennis Jones Chairman, Joel Leonoff President and CEO, values section on pages 42 to 47.
Brian McArthur-Muscroft CFO, Andrew Dark, Ian Francis, Brahm Gelfand, and Ian Jenks.
The Governance report, including the Report of the Remuneration Committee, on pages 58 to 94 summarises Certain key matters in relation to the Directors are theCompanys governance arrangements and remuneration shownbelow: arrangements for Directors.
- The business of the Company is managed by its Directors, All this information forms part of, and by reference who may exercise all powers of the Company subject to isincorporated within, this Directors report.
theCompanys Articles of Association and Isle of Man legislation.
The Directors of the Company are appointed Research and development either by the Board or by shareholders under the The Company continues to invest in the development Companys Articles of Association and may resign ofnewtechnologies to further advance its systems.
Where orberemoved in a similar manner.
management is satisfied that a project will generate future - Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on economic benefits, and the Group intends to, and has pages 61 to 63.
The Directors interests in the ordinary share sufficient resources to, complete development and to use capital of the Company and any interests known to the orsell the asset, the expenditure is capitalised at cost.
Company of their connected persons are set out in the Furtherdetails are in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 86.
- The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity Change of control provisions for the benefit of its Directors in relation to In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement other certain losses and liabilities that they may incur in the than a scheme of arrangement for the purposes of creating course of acting as Directors of the Company or its anew holding company or certain other events, unvested subsidiaries, which remain in force at the date of this report.
Executive Director and employee share awards may, in certain - No member of the Board had a material interest in any circumstances, become exercisable.
Such circumstances may, contract of significance with the Company or any of its although do not necessarily, depend on the achievement of subsidiaries at any time during the year, except for their performance conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration interests in shares and in share awards and under their Committee.
The Company does not have any agreements service agreements and letters of appointment disclosed with any Director or officer that would provide compensation inthe Report of the Remuneration Committee, for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
The Group has facility agreements with its bank lenders which contain provisions giving those lenders certain rights on a Charitable and political donations change of control of the Company.
In addition, certain of the A note of the charitable donations made by the Company Groups agreements with acquiring banks and other suppliers during the year is included in the Culture and values section permit the acquiring bank or supplier to terminate the on pages 45 to 47.
No political donations were made agreement upon a change of control of the Company.
