196 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Shareholder information Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange A postal dealing service is also available through Equiniti.
and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Please telephone 0371 384 2248 for details or log on to Depositary Receipts.
Corporate website ShareGift The investors section of our corporate website www.
com Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose value makes investors.
html provides a wealth of information for shareholders.
them uneconomic to sell, may wish to donate them to ShareGift, the It is also possible to sign up to receive e-mail alerts for reports and share donation charity registered charity number 1052686.
Further press releases relating to Pearson at www.
com news information about ShareGift and the charities it has supported may media email-alert-signup.
html be obtained from their website, www.
org or by contacting them at ShareGift, PO Box 72253, London, SW1P 9LQ.
Shareholder information online American Depositary Receipts ADRs Shareholder information can be found on our website www.
html Pearsons ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol PSO.
Each ADR represents one ordinary Our registrar, Equiniti, also provides a range of shareholder share.
For enquiries regarding registered ADR holder accounts information online.
You can check your holding and nd and dividends, please contact Bank of New York Mellon, practical help on transferring shares or updating your details Shareholder Correspondence ADR, PO Box 30170, College at www.
For more information, please contact Station, TX 77842-3170, telephone 1 866 259 2289 toll free our registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, within the US or 001 201 680 6825 outside the US.
Telephone 0371 384 2233 or, for you may e-mail shrrelations@.
com those shareholders with hearing di culties, textphone number 0371 384 2255.
Voting rights for registered ADR holders can be exercised through Bank of New York Mellon, and for bene cial ADR holders and or Information about the Pearson share price nominee accounts through your US brokerage institution.
Pearson will le with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F.
The companys share price can be found on our website at www.
It also appears in the financial columns of Lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
Share register fraud: protecting your investment 2016 dividends Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to provide Payment date Amount per share recommendation advice and neither does it appoint third parties Interim 16 September 2016 18 pence to do so.
As required by law, our shareholder register is available for public inspection but we cannot control the use of information Final 12 May 2017 34 pence obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Please treat any Payment of dividends to mandated accounts approaches purporting to originate from Pearson with caution.
Should you elect to have your dividends paid through BACS, this can For more information, please log on to our website at be done directly into a bank or building society account, with the tax www.
com investors managing-your-shares  sent to the shareholders registered address.
html be contacted for information on 0371 384 2043.
Tips on protecting your shares Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the companys shares number in a safe place and shred any unwanted documentation on the London stock market with their cash dividend.
For further Inform our registrar, Equiniti, promptly when you change address information, please contact Equiniti on 0371 384 2268.
Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrar if you do not receive your dividend cheque or better still, Individual Savings Accounts ISAs make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Equiniti o ers ISAs in Pearson shares.
For more information, Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account please go to www.
co. uk dealing or call customer via a nominee.
2017 financial calendar Share dealing facilities Ex-dividend date 6 April Equiniti o ers telephone and internet services for dealing in Pearson Record date 7 April shares.
For further information, please contact their telephone Last date for dividend reinvestment election 20 April dealing helpline on 03456 037 037 or, for online dealing, log on to www.
You will need your shareholder Annual General Meeting 5 May reference number as shown on your share certi cate.
Payment date for dividend and share purchase date for dividend reinvestment 12 May in future.
They are based on numerous assumptions regarding Reliance on this document Pearsons present and future business strategies and the The intention of this document is to provide information to environment in which it will operate in the future.
There are shareholders and is not designed to be relied upon by any other a number of factors which could cause actual results and party or for any other purpose.
developments to di er materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including a number of factors Forward-looking statements outside Pearsons control.
These include international, national and Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters local conditions, as well as competition.
They also include other risks discussed in this document include forward-looking statements.
detailed from time to time in Pearsons publiclyled documents In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and you are advised to read, in particular, the risk factors set out in and projections with respect to future matters, including trends in this document.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the date they are made, and Pearson gives no undertaking to the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability of nancing, update forward-looking statements to re ect any changes in its anticipated cost savings and synergies and the execution of expectations with regard thereto or any changes to events, Pearsons strategy, are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because based.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur forward-looking statements.
Designed and produced by Friend.
com This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger O set which is FSC certi ed and Print: Pureprint Group made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp.
The mill and the printer are both certi ed to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Illustrations eco management Audit Scheme.
The report was printed using vegetable-based inks by Tang Yau Hoong, p10 tangyauhoong.
co. uk Lauren Rolwing, p56 laurenrolwing.
com Front cover photograph Christof Van Der Walt, South Africa Pearson has supported the planting of 71.5 square metres of new native woodland with the Woodland Trust, helping to remove 2.86 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide generated by the production of this report and associated documents.
