Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Statement of directors responsibilities 111 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Statement of directors responsibilities of the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report in preparation and dissemination of financial statements may di er accordance with applicable law and regulations.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared p60-61, con rms that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that they pro t of the Group give a true and fair view of the state of a airs of the company and the Group and of the pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
The strategic report contained in the annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business In preparing these financial statements, the directors are and the position of the Group, together with a description of the required to: principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently This responsibility statement has been approved by the board Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable on 14 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by and prudent State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Coram Williams and explained in the financial statements Chief financial o cer Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are su cient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the report on directors remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
