194 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Corporate and operating measures The tables below set out the Groups non-GAAP measures and reconcile them to the statutory results.
Non-GAAP measures are included as they are key financial measures used by management to evaluate performance and also for investors to track the underlying operational performance of the Group.
Sales underlying and constant exchange rate Underlying sales movements exclude the impact of acquisitions and disposals portfolio changes and are stated at constant exchange rates.
Portfolio changes are calculated by taking account of the additional contribution at constant exchange rates from acquisitions made in both the current year and the prior year.
For acquisitions made in the prior year we calculate the additional contribution as the sales made in the period of the current year that corresponds to the pre-acquisition period in the prior year.
We also exclude sales made by businesses disposed in either the current year or the prior year.
Constant exchange rates are calculated by assuming the average exchange rates in the prior year prevailed throughout the current year.
These measures enable management and investors to track more easily, and consistently, the underlying sales performance of the Group.
All gures in millions 2016 Underlying decrease 339 Portfolio changes 63 Exchange di erences 486 Total statutory sales increase 84 Underlying decrease 8 % Constant exchange rate decrease 9 % Adjusted income statement A reconciliation of the statutory income statement to the adjusted income statement is shown in note 8 to the Group financial statements.
Note 8 also includes a description of all items included in the reconciliation and an explanation of why each item has been excluded from the adjusted income statement.
Continuing adjusted income statement measures can be calculated by excluding the discontinued operations column from the table of adjusted income statements measures in note 8 to the Group financial statements.
In 2016 continuing adjusted operating pro t is 635m 2015: 672m.
The key adjusted measures used by management and investors are adjusted operating pro t and adjusted earnings.
These measures are used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources to business segments.
The measures also enable our investors to more easily, and consistently, track the underlying operational performance of the Group and its business segments by separating out those items of income and expenditure relating to acquisition and disposal transactions and major restructuring programmes.
Adjusted operating pro t underlying and constant exchange rate Underlying adjusted operating pro t movements exclude the impact of acquisitions and disposals portfolio changes and are stated at constant exchange rates.
Portfolio changes and constant exchange rates for pro ts are calculated in the same way as for sales, as described above.
These measures enable management and investors to track more easily, and consistently, the underlying pro t performance of the Group.
All gures in millions 2016 Underlying decrease 141 Portfolio changes 53 Exchange di erences 106 Total adjusted operating pro t decrease 88 Underlying decrease 21 % Constant exchange rate decrease 27 % Cash ow measures The Group uses 3 key cash ow measures operating cash ow, operating free cash ow and free cash ow.
Operating cash ow is calculated as net cash generated from operations before the cash ow impact of items excluded from the adjusted income statement plus dividends from joint ventures and associates: capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible software assets: proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible software assets: and less finance lease principal payments.
Operating cash ow is reconciled in note 32 of the Group financial statements.
Operating cash ow is included as a non-GAAP measure in order to align the cash ows with the corresponding adjusted pro t measures.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 195 Cash ow measures continued In addition to operating cash ow the Group also presents operating free cash ow and free cash ow as non-GAAP measures as they are commonly used by investors to measure the cash performance of the Group.
Operating free cash ow is calculated as operating cash ow less operating tax paid and less operating finance costs paid.
Operating free cash ow is reconciled in note 32 of the Group financial statements.
Free cash ow is calculated as operating free cash ow including the cash ow impact of items excluded from the adjusted income statement plus non operating tax received and paid.
Free cash ow is reconciled in note 32 of the Group financial statements.
In addition to the 3 key cash ow measures the Group also uses a cash conversion ratio and a free cash ow per share ratio, both of which are reconciled in the table below.
These ratios are included as non-GAAP measures as they are used by management and investors to measure underlying cash generation by the Group.
All gures in millions 2016 2015 Adjusted operating pro t 635 723 Operating cash ow 663 435 Cash conversion operating cash ow adjusted operating pro t 104% 60% Free cash ow 310 152 Weighted average number of shares in issue millions 814.8 813.3 Operating free cash ow per share 67.4p 31.4p Free cash ow per share 38.0p 18.7p Net debt and EBITDA Net debt is reconciled in Note 19 of the Group financial statements.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA is calculated as total adjusted operating pro t less depreciation on property, plant and equipment and less software amortisation it is reconciled in the table below.
The net debt EBITDA ratio is included as a non-GAAP measure as it is commonly used by investors to measure balance sheet strength.
All gures in millions 2016 2015 Adjusted operating pro t 635 723 Depreciation excluding items included in major cost of restructuring 80 75 Software amortisation excluding items included in major cost of restructuring 70 74 EBITDA 785 872 Net debt 1,092 654 Net debt EBITDA ratio 1.4x 0.8x Return on invested capital Return on invested capital ROIC is calculated as adjusted operating pro t less operating cash tax paid expressed as a percentage of average invested capital.
Invested capital includes the original unamortised goodwill and intangibles.
Average values for total invested capital are calculated as the average monthly balance for the year.
ROIC is included as a non-GAAP measure as it is used by management and investors to track investment returns and by management to help inform capital allocation decisions within the business.
All gures in millions 2016 2015 Adjusted operating pro t 635 723 Operating tax paid 63 129 Return 572 594 Average goodwill and other intangibles 9,468 8,715 Average net operating assets 1,996 1,602 Average invested capital 11,464 10,317 Return on invested capital 5.0% 5.8%
