38 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Operating performance Revenues rose 1% in headline terms Carolina Science and Social Studies.
In Open North America bene ting from a stronger US dollar, but Territories, we grew strongly bene ting declined 10% in underlying terms due to from our new MyPerspectives programme a signi cant decline in US higher education in Grades 612 ELA, ReadyGen, Market summary courseware, together with anticipated Investigations 3.0, the extension of Our largest market includes all declines in school assessment, due to enVisionMATH to cover Grades 68 50 US states and Canada.
previously announced contract losses and and growth in our digital reading in school courseware, due to a smaller intervention programme, iLit.
Contribution to Group revenues adoption market and our lower participation In higher education courseware, total US rate, partially o set by growth in 65% college enrolments fell 1.4%, with combined professional certi cation, virtual and two-year public and four-year for-pro t Sales blended schools and online programme enrolments declining 5.0%, a ected by management.
rising employment rates and regulatory 2,981m Adjusted operating pro ts fell 13% in change impacting the for-pro t and headline terms and 28% at CER and developmental learning sectors, partially Adjusted operating pro t underlying due primarily to the impact o set by modest growth in combined of lower sales in US higher education enrolments at four-year public and private 420m courseware.
Net revenues in our US higher education courseware Courseware business declined an unprecedented 18% Key e cacy nding during the year.
We estimate 2% of this In school courseware, revenue declined 10% decline was driven by lower enrolment, with a smaller new Adoption Market and our 5x particularly in Community College and lower participation rate partially o set by among older students: 34% by an good growth and market share gains in Increase in probability of students accelerated impact from rental in the Open Territories resulting from new product passing remedial college math through secondary market: and approximately launches.
Our new adoption participation use of MyLab Math from 10% to 53%.
12% due to an inventory correction in the rate fell from over 90% in 2015 to 64% in channel re ecting the cumulative impact 2016 due to our decision not to compete for In 2016, we expanded our e cacy agenda to of these factors in prior years.
Underlying the California Grades K-8 English Language include every one of our strategic priorities in market share trends remained stable and Arts ELA adoption with a core basal North America.
We are beginning to generate our market share in the 12 months to programme.
We won an estimated 30% compelling findings and using research January 2017 was 40.4%.
share of adoptions competed for 31% insights to drive product improvement.
in 2015 and 19% of total new adoption This investment will help us reach more During 2016, we performed strongly in learners and have greater impact.
expenditure of $470m 29% of $730m Science and Business & Economics with key in 2015 driven by strong performance in titles including: Applying, Biochemistry: Indiana Math and Social Studies and South Concepts & Connections 1e: Amerman, Human Anatomy & Physiology 1e: Marieb, Human Anatomy & Physiology 10e: Young, Freedman, United States Debs story Connections Education For the past year, I have had the privilege of I discovered that not all online programmes Most of my personal and professional friends serving as principal of Troy Intersect Virtual are alike.
With Troy School Districts high are amazed at my attitude change about K-12 Academy in Troy, Michigan.
Previously I was academic standards, I now understand why it online learning.
My involvement with Pearson not impressed with K-12 online education.
selected Pearson Online & Blended Learnings Online & Blended Learnings well-developed programme for our online students.
The programme has helped me to understand that Working with the students and curriculum is rigorous and equal to the one education model does not meet the educators of Intersect and the academic expectations of our district.
staff at Pearson Online & Blended Students are well supported by certi ed online Deb MacDonald Linford teachers and tutors, and they have access to Learning has changed my Principal, Troy Intersect Virtual School a full-time district counsellor, classroom perception about virtual learning.
teacher, classroom para-pro and principal.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 39 University Physics 14e and Parkin, Economics In professional certi cation, revenues grew Assessment 12e.
Global digital registrations of MyLab 7% with VUE global test volume up 3% to In school assessment State and National and related products grew 2%.
In North almost 15 million, boosted by continued Assessments, revenues declined 22% due America, digital registrations grew 2% with growth in IT, professional, US teacher to previously announced contract losses.
good growth in Science, Business & certi cation programmes and strong The states of Arkansas, Mississippi and Economics and Revel partly o set by growth in GED General Educational Ohio discontinued PARCC assessments and continued softness in Developmental Development, the high school equivalency we ceased to administer the majority of the Mathematics.
Skill Builder Adaptive Practice, test that is part of a joint venture with the current Texas STAAR contract, as announced our in-house adaptive homework solution American Council on Education.
We replaced the loss from launched in over 60 titles in 2016. renewed our contracts with the Computing Massachusetts leaving PARCC by winning Technology Industry Association CompTIA Faculty-generated studies indicate that a five-year sub-contract to deliver for three years, the Florida Department of the use of MyLab, Mastering and Revel Massachusetts new custom assessment.
Business & Professional Regulation for five programmes, as part of a broader course We were awarded a one-year emergency years, the American Register of Radiologic redesign, can support improvements in contract in Tennessee to score and report Technologists ARRT for seven years and a student test scores and lower institutional 2016 state assessments.
Kentucky renewed contract to administer insurance back cost.
Findings from an e cacy study a contract with Pearson for two years to o ce licensing services in North Carolina suggest that students in Developmental provide its state assessments in Math, for five years.
Mathematics courses who increased their English Language Arts, and Science.
Arizona number of homework and quiz attempts Clinical assessment sales declined 1% extended Pearsons contract to provide the in  increased following the strong performance over English language learner assessments for their odds of passing: and that users of the previous two years driven by the the 20162017 school year, while Colorado MyLab Writing who complete seven topics introduction of the fifth edition of the extended a contract with Pearson to provide or more increase their final exam scores Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children PARCC, science and social studies by 14%.
In another study at a mid-sized WISC-V.
Behavior Assessment for Children 3e assessments.
We won new contracts in university in the Midwest, during the BASC continues to see strong growth: and Delaware for social studies assessment and 2015-2016 academic year, students using Q-Interactive, Pearsons digital solution for a sub-contract to develop high school math My IT Lab were able to raise their exam clinical assessment administration, saw and English language arts assessments in scores by half a letter grade for every continued strong growth in licence sales Louisiana.
We delivered 23.6 million seven additional activities attempted.
with sub-test administrations up more than standardised online tests to K-12 students, In institutional courseware solutions, 80% over the same period last year.
a reduction of 11% from 2015 due to overall Pearson signed 148 large-scale, enterprise reduction in test counts across contracts.
adoptions of direct digital access DDA, Paper-based standardised test volumes where content is purchased via an upfront fell 33% to 21.9 million.
Digital tests on course fee and integrated with university Pearsons TestNav platform now account for IT systems.
New signings in the year over 52% of our testing volumes.
included University of Tennessee We launched aimswebPlusTM, an update Knoxville and Kentucky State University.
to our leading formative assessment platform, first launched in 2000.
United States Kelley & Courtlyns story Connections Education Texas twins Kelley and Courtlyn Ranly were Texas A&M University as animal science majors, looking for an education option that would with the shared goal of one day opening both challenge them academically and allow a veterinary clinic together.
them the time needed to compete in rodeo We wanted our daughters to be competitions when they found online public challenged, we wanted them to school Texas Connections Academy.
have the opportunity to excel, With the exibility of online school, both experience and grow as much as students were able to pursue their passion for rodeo, volunteer at a local veterinary clinic, possible, because these years are act as Texas 4-H Livestock Ambassadors, and formative years that will help show their sheep and goats at stock shows Kelley and Courtlyn Ranly determine what kind of an adult throughout the state.
The twins have amassed Graduates Texas Connections Academy they are going to be, more than 100 awards for their extracurricular says Miki Ranly, their mother.
Courtlyn and Kelley currently attend 40 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Operating performance Services Revenues declined 1% in headline terms, Core were down 7% at CER re ecting the closure Connections Education, our virtual school of Wall Street English Germany, disposal of business, served nearly 73,000 full-time other sub-scale businesses and the transfer Market summary equivalent students through full-time virtual of some smaller businesses to our Growth and blended school programmes, up 6% on Our international business in established segment, and declined 4% in underlying last year.
and mature education markets including terms, primarily due to expected declines in Five new full-time online, statewide, partner the UK, Australia and Italy.
vocational course registrations in UK schools schools opened for the 201617 school year and courseware.
This was partially o set by Contribution to Group revenues in Arkansas, Washington, Colorado, strong growth in English assessments in Pennsylvania and New Mexico.
The 2016 Australia and OPM services in the UK and 18% Connections Education Parent Satisfaction Australia.
Adjusted operating pro t declined Survey showed strong results with 92% of Sales 51% primarily due to lower revenues in UK families with students enrolled in full-time student assessment.
online partner schools stating that they 803m would recommend the schools to others.
Courseware Adjusted operating pro t In Pearson Online Services, our higher Courseware revenues declined 7%.
education OPM business, course In-school revenues declined in smaller 57m enrolments grew strongly, up over 19% markets in Europe and Africa, in Australia to more than 314,000, boosted by strong as we exited a number of sub-scale market growth in Arizona State University Online, segments and in UK primary due to a Key e cacy nding new partners and programme extensions.
smaller adoption cycle, partially o set We signed 11 new programmes in 2016 by growth in secondary in the UK due to 3 months including two new partners: Eastern new product launches aligned with our Gateway Community College in quali cations and the successful delivery of collaboration with American Federation Number of months Bug Club The Crunch food project in partnership with of State, County and Municipal Employees, readers are ahead in word recognition the Wellcome Trust.
In higher education and we took over an existing suite of online when compared with others, after courseware, revenues declined in smaller Nursing programmes with Duquesne 12 months of use.
markets, in Australia due to phasing and in University.
Strong growth in the UK as we exited sub-scale market OPM was partially o set by a decline in In 2016, we took signi cant steps forward in segments.
In the UK, 2.1 million pupils are Learning Studio, which is currently being Core in measuring and improving the e cacy now using a Pearson digital service on of our digital courseware, assessments, and retired.
ActiveLearn Primary, including Bug Club, up services.
All of our highest priority products from 1.8 million a year ago.
In a randomised and services are making progress on the path to e cacy.
Australia Kumars story Pearson Test of English PTE Academic Kumar Ku e grew up in eastern Nepal.
As a Since then I always had a child he would walk to and from school every dream to learn English.
day, which was a two to three-hour round trip.
When Kumar was nine years old, he saw a Kumar learnt English at boarding school Western tourist couple carrying their child and came to Australia to study further.
The child was the same age as I took my PTE Academic test for my graduate Kumar, and at the time Kumar was carrying visa.
I chose PTE Academic because its got a heavy load that would have weighed more better availability for tests.
It is fairer because than his own body weight.
This experience its got automated scoring, and I got my made Kumar curious about the Western score results back faster.
I got the result that world and inspired him to learn English.
I needed and enrolled in a professional year Kumar Ku e programme.
Now I am doing an internship in finance in a multinational company.
THE THE H McKe McKell McKell Kel Insti In nst st tute ute ute Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 41 control trial, where its impact was administer the UK driving theory test for the Services periodically assessed, Bug Club was shown UK DVSA for four years from September In higher education services, revenues grew to have made a highly statistically signi cant 2016: to continue to provide testing services 12%.
In impact on pupils reading, vocabulary and to the Construction Industry Training Board Australia, we saw strong growth due to our spelling performance, with a greater positive for four years from April 2017: and to successful partnership with Monash impact in schools with a higher proportion administer the UK Clinical Aptitude Test for University, led by the Graduate Diploma in of children receiving free school meals.
In France, VUE Psychology, now one of Monashs largest was awarded a new licence by the postgraduate courses.
Our partnership with Assessment Dlgation la Scurit et la Circulation Gri th University remains strong, with Routires DSCR du Ministere fide lIntrieur In higher education and school assessment, performance driven mainly by the MBA to be one of the providers administering the revenues fell 10%.
UK quali cations have course.
In the UK, our ongoing OPM countrys computer-based driving theory been impacted by government policy, partnership with Kings College London saw exam throughout France.
where changes to accountability measures us commence teaching in early 2016 of have led to lower vocational registrations.
The Pearson Test of English PTE Academic several post graduate Psychology and Law As expected, BTEC Firsts registrations in saw continued strong growth in global test programmes.
We have signed an additional UK schools have begun to stabilise, volumes with the Australian Department partnership with Manchester Metropolitan though overall BTEC and apprenticeship of Immigration and Border Protection and University to launch three online registrations continued to fall in 2016 albeit New Zealand immigration accepting the test postgraduate degrees in Business Studies in at a slower rate.
GCSE and GCE entries for for proof of English ability for a range of 2017, and have also partnered with another summer 2016 declined modestly compared student visas.
The number of professional Russell Group University to launch a wide with 2015, primarily due to lower AS level associations using PTE Academic to range of online postgraduate programmes entries as a result of a policy-driven shift credential English language standards of over the next four years.
We successfully their members continued to grow and now Wall Street English revenues grew strongly delivered the National Curriculum Test includes the Australian Nursing & Midwifery in Italy as we opened new centres and rolled for 2016, marking 3.4 million scripts and Accreditation Council.
All Australian and out the New Student Experience NSE in successfully implemented the transition NZ universities now accept PTE Academic all centres in the country.
The NSE delivers from levels to scaled scores.
for admissions purposes, as do most of a next generation Wall Street English the UK and Canadian universities, and Clinical assessment grew 9% with Australian service with adaptive, personalised a growing number of US institutions revenues bene ting from strong growth in learning incorporating Pearsons Global including Harvard Business School, Yale the new edition of the WISC-V.
We announced the closure and Wharton Business School.
of our unpro table Wall Street English At VUE, revenues declined 1% due to the schools in Germany.
initial impact of contract renewals.
We were awarded contracts: to continue to Australia Market spotlight Partnerships Pearson partnered with independent, Report author and policy o cer at the McKell not-for-pro t public policy institute the McKell Institute Marieke DCruz said: Institute in Australia to launch No Mind Left The report indexes education Behind a research report examining the opportunity in Australia by electorate, education system in Australia.
plus makes recommendations to government on how to improve the education system from early childhood to lifelong learning.
Pearson was as passionate as us to ensure the Marieke DCruz report was an independent output, and we welcome one of their first forays into the education debate in Australia.
THE MCKELL INS TITUTE No Mind Left Behind Building an education system for a modern Australia OCT OBER 2016 THE McKell Institute 42 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Operating performance Revenues grew 8% in headline terms, were We saw strong growth in registrations for Growth at at CER re ecting the transfer of some MyEnglishLab boosted by new editions of smaller business from Core partially o set key titles such as Speakout and Top Notch.
by the sale of smaller sub-scale businesses Middle East school courseware declined as Market summary and down 1% in underlying terms.
In China, a result of macroeconomic pressure and Our growth markets in emerging and growth in adult English language learning lower purchases from key international developing economies with investment and English courseware was partly o set by school clients.
priorities in Brazil, China, India and declines in English test preparation.
In Brazil, Services South Africa.
revenues declined due to enrolment declines in our English language learning In China, growth in Wall Street English WSE Contribution to Group revenues business, related to macroeconomic was o set by declines at Global Education.
In South Africa, revenues grew Enrolments grew 8% at WSE, to 72,500.
17% strongly with growth in school textbooks, We launched the New Student Experience o set by enrolment declines at CTI.
In the Sales across all 68 WSE China centres, opened Middle East, revenues fell signi cantly due two new retail centres in Beijing and to our previously announced withdrawal 768m Shenzhen and a new corporate training from an agreement to run three Saudi centre in Shenzhen.
In global education, Adjusted operating pro t Colleges of Excellence, with the colleges we transferred two cities to franchisees.
transitioning to new providers from 30 June Underlying revenue declined with lower 29m 2015.
Excluding the impact of the exit from enrolments partially o set by an ongoing this agreement, underlying revenues in shift to more premium courses with smaller Growth were up 1%.
Key e cacy nding Adjusted operating pro t increased 32m to In Brazil, student enrolment in our sistemas a pro t of 29m re ecting the bene ts of business fell 9% due to attrition in NAME 28 points restructuring and the absence of a contract and Dom Bosco partially o set by new termination charge in the Middle East which students at COC.
Revenues grew slightly Positive score di erential between our impacted the first half of 2015. due to improved mix.
Revenues in English NAME sistema students and their peers language learning fell due to challenging Courseware in similar schools.
The di erence equates economic conditions, partially o set by an to roughly one level higher on the Courseware revenues grew 8%, due to increased footprint for our leading brand national exam.
strong growth in school textbook sales in in language learning, Wizard, where new South Africa and English language school openings expanded the number In 2016, we invested in new products that will courseware in China, Argentina and Mexico of franchise schools by 7% to 2,392. deliver better outcomes for more learners partially o set by weakness in Brazil.
across K-12, English, and Higher Education.
These products will help improve access to quality education that helps people make progress in their lives.
South Africa Phumudzos story The Pearson Institute Phumudzo Madzhie 26 is a successful Phumudzo believes he had an advantage by businessman, investor, philanthropist, completing his studies at Pearson Institute.
motivational speaker, financial literacy activist A whole world opened up in a and alumnus of the Pearson Institute.
It was not just theoretical, studied a Business Administration degree it was more practical.
It is not just followed by Honours in Business Management.
about what you learn today, its Phumudzo is the youngest franchisee in the history of the Mikes Kitchen Group, about how you apply it tomorrow.
responsible for strategic planning, all major I am currently doing my MBA and investment decisions and organisational I am sailing through it because development.
He is also one of the 40 Phumudzo Madzhie of the structure I learnt from young South Africans who were selected to Pearson Institute.
participate in the 2016 Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 43 At our public sistema NAME, an e cacy Penguin Random House study suggested that, after controlling for all of the identi ed student and school level factors, grade 5 NAME students signi cantly Pearson owns 47% of Penguin Random The UK business published 202 titles on outperformed comparison students by House, the first truly global consumer book the Sunday Times bestseller lists 2015: 201.
28 points in mathematics equating to one publishing company.
The divisions top-selling hardback was Night School by Lee Child.
The Girl On The Train sold level higher attainment in the state Prova Penguin Random House delivered a strong over three million copies in multi-formats, Brasil assessment.
In another study at pro t performance in 2016 with continued and Me Before You and After You cumulatively net bene ts from the merger integration.
our largest private sistema COC, students sold more than 2.5 million.
Top-performing scored signi cantly higher than students Revenues declined after a very strong childrens franchises were Roald Dahl and in similar non-COC schools in writing, performance in 2015, which was boosted by the tenth volume in Je Kinneys Diary Of the success of multi-million sellers Grey and natural sciences, humanities, language, A Wimpy Kid series.
The Girl on the Train, and due to the anticipated and mathematics.
Penguin Random House completed the sale industry-wide decrease in ebook purchases of its travel-content division, Fodors, to Internet In South Africa, student enrolment at following 2015s industry-wide digital-terms Brands, an online media and technology CTI Education Group and Pearson Institute changes.
Revenues in 2016 bene ted from company, on 30 June 2016, and transferred the strong sales of The Girl on the Train by Paula of Higher Education fell by 25% to 8,500 ownership of Random House Studio, its lm Hawkins, in its second year of publication, driven primarily by tightening consumer and television development and production and Jojo Moyess Me Before You and After You, credit a ecting enrolment rates.
division, to a division of Bertelsmann.
together with broad resilience of print books, In India, Pearson MyPedia, an inside service including growing print sales online and The integration of Penguin and Random House increased demand for audio books.
continued to provide bene ts in 2016 including sistema solution for schools comprising net bene ts from the first full year of systems print and digital content, assessments and The US business published 585 New York Times and warehouse combinations in North America academic support services, expanded to print and ebook bestsellers in 2016 2015: 584. and in Spain and Latin America.
The division bene ted from multi-million copy over 200 schools with approximately 56,000 successes of The Girl on the Train and two novels Penguin Random House ction and non ction learners in its first full year since launch.
Additional number one adult authors with highly anticipated new books in PTE Academic saw nearly 50% growth in the titles were The Whistler by John Grisham: Night 2017 include Dan Brown, Ron Chernow, Lee volume of tests taken.
School by Lee Child: Fool Me Once by Harlan Child, Harlan Coben, Janet Evanovich, Ken Coben: When Breath Becomes Air by Paul Follett, John Grisham, Paula Hawkins, Je Kalanithi: and Ina Gartens Cooking For Je rey.
Kinney, Dean Koontz, Nigella Lawson, John le Childrens authors who extended their Carr, James Patterson, Philip Pullman, Sheryl outstanding sales in 2016 included Dr. Seuss Sandberg, John Sanford, Danielle Steel and Rick and Roald Dahl, whose The BFG bene ted from Yancey, as well as new Star Wars and LEGO a movie tie-in: Rick Yancey: James Dashner: movie tie-in titles.
Drew Daywalt: Oliver Je ers: and R. J. Palacio.
South Africa Market spotlight Partnerships Central to Pearson South Africas It i s clear that Pearson has transformation agenda is building partnerships transformed our community.
within the educational landscape government Parents did not want to send their departments and NGOs with the common children to our school, but the purpose of making a measurable di erence in the lives of learners across society, particularly learners have gone home and told in the area of literacy.
the families how they read in small Mrs Tongo, principal of Luzuko Primary School groups with Pearson people who in Gugulethu, where Pearson volunteers come specially to spend time with dedicated every Friday to small group reading us.
The children and community sessions with Xhosa-speaking Grade 1 learners Mrs Tongo principal of Luzuko Primary School feel that we matter.
for 2016, notes: Thank you Pearson.
