OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
GOODWILL m Cost: At 1 April 2014 339.3 At 31 March 2015 339.3 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries note 44 45.7 At 31 March 2016 385.0 Carrying amount: At 1 April 2014 339.3 At 31 March 2015 339.3 At 31 March 2016 385.0 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating unit CGU expected to benefit from that business combination.
342.7 million of the goodwill balance is allocated to the waste management business, with the remaining 42.3 million allocated to the water business, representing the lowest levels at which goodwill is monitored and tested.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are any indications that impairment may have arisen.
The recoverable amount of the water business segment, for which goodwill was first recognised during the year on the acquisition of Bournemouth Water, is assessed with reference to performance expectations compared to those assumed at time of acquisition.
Key assumptions used to assess the value of this goodwill included future allowed tariff increases and delivery of operational efficiencies.
The recoverable amount of the waste management segment, to which the majority of goodwill is allocated, is determined based on value-in-use calculations which, under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, require the use of base cash flow projections that reflect reasonable and supportable assumptions with specific restrictions on the estimates to be used.
These include limitations on reflecting cash flows to take account of future cost restructuring, or improvement or enhancement of asset performance.
Discount rates are required to be derived independently of the Groups capital structure and reflect managements prudent estimate of a rate that investors would require if they were to choose a similar investment.
The base cash flow projections have been derived by prudently adjusting key assumptions underlying the Groups detailed budget and strategic plan projections.
These cover a period of seven years and are prepared as part of the annual planning cycle.
This period is believed to lead to a more realistic estimate of future cash flows than five years.
These plans are based on detailed market-by-market forecasts of projected volumes, prices and costs for each business activity.
These forecasts reflect, on an individual operational site basis, numerous assumptions and estimates.
The key assumptions include anticipated changes in market size and volumes: recyclate prices: energy selling prices: gate fees: the level of future landfill tax: and cost inflation.
Management has determined the value assigned to each assumption based on historical experience, market surveys, industry analysis and current legislation.
For business activities with an indefinite life a terminal growth rate has been used.
Management has applied the following assumptions to the cash flow projections: Assumption Basis for assumption Discount rate Discount rates have been determined based on an estimate of the waste management segments weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the different risk profiles of the Pre-tax discount rates used range from segments business activities to the extent that the cash flows have not already been 7% to 10%, across the CGUs business activities adjusted.
Investments in joint ventures reflect an expected equity return only.
2015 7.5% to 10% Long-term growth rates Ongoing efficiencies and benefits from economies of scale.
0.5% applied to overheads beyond the period of the detailed projections.
2015 0.5% 2.5% applied to other cash flows beyond the period of Based on forecasts of growth in waste management markets and the UK economy.
