OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Pennon Group Plc is a company registered in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 115.
During 2015 16 Pennon Groups business was operated through three main subsidiaries.
South West Water Limited providing water and wastewater services for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset.
Bournemouth Water Limited providing the water services for parts of Dorset, Hampshire and Wiltshire.
Viridor Limiteds business is waste recycling and recovery.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented.
A BASIS OF PREPARATION These financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost accounting basis except for fair value items, principally acquisitions, transfers of assets from customers and certain financial instruments as described in accounting policy notes b, v and n respectively and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee as adopted by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations in the year.
The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these financial statements as stated by the Directors on page 100.
The new standards or interpretations which were mandatory for the first time in the year beginning 1 April 2015 did not have a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
Standards and interpretations in issue, but not yet effective, are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups net assets or results, except the following set out below: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers relates to revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
The standard will replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and is subject to EU endorsement.
The Group continues to assess the impact of the new standard on the Groups financial statements.
The Group will make more detailed assessments of the impact over the next twelve months.
IFRS 16 Leases no longer distinguish between an on the balance sheet finance lease and an off the balance sheet operating lease.
Instead, for virtually all lease contracts the lessee recognises a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use asset.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and is subject to EU endorsement.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of IFRS 16 on 1 April 2019 will reduce operating costs, increase depreciation charges and increase finance costs.
In addition, c. 100 million of property, plant and equipment will be recognised, with a corresponding increase in borrowings and group net debt.
Existing borrowing covenants are not impacted by changes in accounting standards.
The accounting policy for non-underlying items z, previously referred to as exceptional items, has been refined to include items which due to their nature in the view of the Directors should be separately disclosed to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group financial statements include the results of Pennon Group Plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate undertakings are included from the date of acquisition or incorporation, and excluded from the date of disposal.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated where the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The results of joint ventures and associate undertakings are accounted for on an equity basis.
Intra-group trading, loan balances and transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the purchase of subsidiaries.
The excess of the value transferred to the seller in return for control of the acquired business, together with the fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business over the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets, is recorded as goodwill.
C REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding value added tax, trade discounts and inter-company sales, in the ordinary course of business for goods and services provided.
Revenue is recognised once the services or goods have been provided to the customer.
Income from main water and wastewater charges includes billed amounts for estimated usage and also an estimation of the amount of unbilled charges at the year-end based upon a defined methodology reflecting historical consumption and current tariffs.
Income from electricity generated from waste management landfill gas production during the year includes an estimation of the amount to be received under Renewables Obligation Certificates.
Accrued income from waste management contracts at the balance sheet date is recognised using managements expectation of amounts to be subsequently billed for services rendered to the client in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Income from recycling activities within waste management includes amounts based upon market prices for recyclate products and industry schemes for waste electrical and electronic equipment WEEE notes and packaging volumes PRNs processed.
