OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Pennon Group Plc is a company registered in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 115.
During 2015 16 Pennon Groups business was operated through three main subsidiaries.
South West Water Limited providing water and wastewater services for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset.
Bournemouth Water Limited providing the water services for parts of Dorset, Hampshire and Wiltshire.
Viridor Limiteds business is waste recycling and recovery.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented.
A BASIS OF PREPARATION These financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost accounting basis except for fair value items, principally acquisitions, transfers of assets from customers and certain financial instruments as described in accounting policy notes b, v and n respectively and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee as adopted by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations in the year.
The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these financial statements as stated by the Directors on page 100.
The new standards or interpretations which were mandatory for the first time in the year beginning 1 April 2015 did not have a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
Standards and interpretations in issue, but not yet effective, are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups net assets or results, except the following set out below: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers relates to revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
The standard will replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and is subject to EU endorsement.
The Group continues to assess the impact of the new standard on the Groups financial statements.
The Group will make more detailed assessments of the impact over the next twelve months.
IFRS 16 Leases no longer distinguish between an on the balance sheet finance lease and an off the balance sheet operating lease.
Instead, for virtually all lease contracts the lessee recognises a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use asset.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and is subject to EU endorsement.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of IFRS 16 on 1 April 2019 will reduce operating costs, increase depreciation charges and increase finance costs.
In addition, c. 100 million of property, plant and equipment will be recognised, with a corresponding increase in borrowings and group net debt.
Existing borrowing covenants are not impacted by changes in accounting standards.
The accounting policy for non-underlying items z, previously referred to as exceptional items, has been refined to include items which due to their nature in the view of the Directors should be separately disclosed to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group financial statements include the results of Pennon Group Plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate undertakings are included from the date of acquisition or incorporation, and excluded from the date of disposal.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated where the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The results of joint ventures and associate undertakings are accounted for on an equity basis.
Intra-group trading, loan balances and transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the purchase of subsidiaries.
The excess of the value transferred to the seller in return for control of the acquired business, together with the fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business over the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets, is recorded as goodwill.
C REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding value added tax, trade discounts and inter-company sales, in the ordinary course of business for goods and services provided.
Revenue is recognised once the services or goods have been provided to the customer.
Income from main water and wastewater charges includes billed amounts for estimated usage and also an estimation of the amount of unbilled charges at the year-end based upon a defined methodology reflecting historical consumption and current tariffs.
Income from electricity generated from waste management landfill gas production during the year includes an estimation of the amount to be received under Renewables Obligation Certificates.
Accrued income from waste management contracts at the balance sheet date is recognised using managements expectation of amounts to be subsequently billed for services rendered to the client in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Income from recycling activities within waste management includes amounts based upon market prices for recyclate products and industry schemes for waste electrical and electronic equipment WEEE notes and packaging volumes PRNs processed.
co. uk 2016 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Revenue from long-term service concession arrangements is recognised based on the fair value of work performed.
Where an arrangement includes more than one service, such as construction and operation of waste management facilities, revenue and profit are recognised in proportion to a fair value assessment of the total contract value split across the services provided.
D LANDFILL TAX Landfill tax is included within both revenue and operating costs.
E SEGMENTAL REPORTING Each of the Groups business segments provides services which are subject to risks and returns which are different from those of the other business segments.
The Groups internal organisation and management structure and its system of internal financial reporting are based primarily on business segments.
The reportable business segments comprise the water business which includes the regulated water and wastewater services undertaken by South West Water and the regulated water services undertaken by Bournemouth Water, and the waste management business of Viridor.
Segmental revenue and results include transactions between businesses.
Inter-segmental transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
F GOODWILL Goodwill arising on consolidation from the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired, less any subsequent impairment charges.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash generating units or group of cash generating units, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes.
Goodwill is allocated and monitored at the reportable operating segment level.
Further details are contained in accounting policy j.
When a subsidiary undertaking is sold, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after including the attributable amount of unamortised goodwill.
G OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible assets are recognised in relation to long-term service concessions contracts to the extent that future amounts to be received are not certain.
Other intangible assets include assets acquired in a business combination and are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, with the expense charged to the income statement through operating costs.
H PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT i Infrastructure assets being water mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, pipelines and sea outfalls Infrastructure assets were included at fair value on transition to IFRS, and subsequent additions are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment charges.
Expenditure to increase capacity or enhance infrastructure assets is capitalised where it can be reliably measured, and it is probable that incremental future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The cost of day-to-day servicing of infrastructure components is recognised in the income statement as it arises.
Infrastructure assets are depreciated evenly over their useful economic lives, and are principally: Dams and impounding reservoirs 200 years 40 120 years Water mains Sewers 40 120 years Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
ii Landfill sites Landfill sites are included within land and buildings at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes acquisition and development expenses.
The cost of a landfill site is depreciated to its residual value which is linked to gas production at the site post-closure over its estimated operational life taking account of the usage of void space.
iii Landfill restoration Where the obligation to restore a landfill site is an integral part of its future economic benefits, a non-current asset within property, plant and equipment is recognised.
The asset recognised is depreciated based on the usage of void space.
iv Other assets including energy recovery facilities, property, overground plant and equipment Other assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are depreciated evenly to their residual value over their estimated economic lives, and are principally: Land and buildings freehold buildings 30 60 years Land and buildings leasehold buildings Over the estimated economic lives or the finance lease period, whichever is the shorter Operational properties 40 80 years 25 40 years Energy recovery facilities including major refurbishments Fixed plant 20 40 years Vehicles, mobile plant and computers 3 10 years 120 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS h Property, plant and equipment continued Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
The cost of assets includes directly attributable labour and overhead costs which are incremental to the Group.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of a qualifying asset an asset necessarily taking a substantial period of time to be prepared for its intended use are capitalised as part of the asset.
Assets transferred from customers are recognised at fair value as set out in accounting policy v. The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually.
With effect from 1 April 2015, the useful lives for certain assets have been amended where both external benchmarking and internal experience indicates a change is required.
Lives for some asset have increased whilst others have decreased.
To accommodate this change the range of useful lives for water mains and sewers has increased from 100 to 120 years.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing sale proceeds with carrying amounts.
These are included in the income statement.
I LEASED ASSETS Assets held under finance leases are included as property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value at commencement or the present value of the minimum lease payments, and are depreciated over their estimated economic lives or the finance lease period, whichever is the shorter.
The corresponding liability is recorded as borrowings.
The interest element of the rental costs is charged against profits using the actuarial method over the period of the lease.
Rental costs arising under operating leases are charged against profits in the year they are incurred.
J IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS Assets with an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment, or whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value, less costs to sell, and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Value in use represents the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be derived from a cash generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects an assessment of the market cost of capital of the cash generating unit.
Impairments are charged to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have been impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Where a previously impaired asset or cash generating units recoverable amount is in excess of its carrying amount, previous impairments are reversed to the carrying value that would have expected to be recognised had the original impairment not occurred.
K INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Investments in subsidiary undertakings are initially recorded at cost, being the fair value of the consideration paid.
Subsequently investments are reviewed for impairment on an individual basis annually or if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
L INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint venture at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill and is included in the carrying value of the investment in the joint venture.
The carrying value of the Groups investment is adjusted for the Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses recognised in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest are not recognised unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
M INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress includes raw materials and the cost of bringing stocks to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less cost to sell.
N CASH AND CASH DEPOSITS Cash and cash deposits comprise cash in hand and short-term deposits held at banks.
Bank overdrafts are shown within current borrowings.
O DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: i Loans and receivables All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Following initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the instruments are derecognised or impaired.
Premia, discounts and other costs and fees are recognised in the income statement through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
ii Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest receivable and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due in accordance with the original terms of the receivables.
iii Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
iv Financial assets arising from service concession arrangements Where the provision of waste management services is performed through a contract with a public sector entity which controls a significant residual interest in asset infrastructure at the end of the contract, then consideration is treated as contract receivables, split between profit on the construction of assets, operation of the service and the provision of finance which is recognised in notional interest within finance income.
co. uk 2016 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED v Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge risks associated with interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations.
Derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The Group designates certain hedging derivatives as either: a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or change in the cash flows of a recognised asset or liability a cash flow hedge or a hedge of the exposure to change in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability a fair value hedge.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is recognised to the income statement except for cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, when the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Where a non-derivative transaction or series of transactions with the same counterparty has the aggregate effect in substance of a derivative instrument, the transaction or series of transactions shall be recognised as a single derivative instrument at fair value with associated movements recorded in the income statement.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is apportioned on a straight line basis between non-current and current assets and liabilities based on the remaining maturity of the hedging derivative.
Derivative financial instruments deemed held for trading, which are not subject to hedge accounting, are classified as a current asset or liability with any change in fair value recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group uses cross-currency swaps for some of its foreign currency denominated private placement borrowings.
The swaps either have the effect of i converting variable rate foreign currency borrowings into fixed rate sterling borrowings, ii converting fixed rate foreign currency borrowings into fixed rate sterling borrowings, or iii converting fixed rate foreign currency borrowings into floating rate sterling borrowings.
vi Financial instruments at fair value through profit Financial instruments at fair value through profit reflect the fair value movement of the hedged risk on a hedged item which has been designated in a fair value hedging relationship.
The fair values of these financial instruments are initially recognised on the date the hedging relationship is entered into and thereafter remeasured at each subsequent balance sheet date.
The gain or loss on remeasurement for the period is recognised in the income statement.
P TAXATION INCLUDING DEFERRED TAX The tax charge for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in the statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates tax items subject to interpretation and establishes provisions on individual tax items where in the judgement of management the position is uncertain.
The Group includes a number of companies, including the parent company, which are part of a tax group for certain aspects of the tax legislation.
One of these aspects relates to group relief whereby current tax liabilities can be offset by current tax losses arising in other companies within the same tax group.
Payments for group relief are included within the current tax disclosures.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the tax base, except if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be realised.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or the deferred tax asset is realised.
Q PROVISIONS Provisions are made where there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that there will be an outflow of economic benefits to settle this obligation and a reliable estimate of this amount can be made.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material the current amount of a provision is the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle obligations.
The unwinding of the discount to present value is included as notional interest within finance costs.
The Groups policies on specific provisions are: i Landfill restoration costs Provisions for the cost of restoring landfill sites are made when the obligation arises.
Where the obligation recognised as a provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset in property, plant and equipment is recognised.
Provisions are otherwise charged against profits based on the usage of void space.
ii Environmental control and aftercare costs Environmental control and aftercare costs are incurred during the operational life of each landfill site and for a considerable period thereafter.
Provision for all such costs is made over the operational life of the site and charged to the income statement on the basis of the usage of void space at the site.
Further provisions required after the operational life of a site are recognised immediately in the income statement.
iii Underperforming contracts Where the unavoidable costs of meeting a contracts obligations exceed the economic benefits derived from that contract, the unavoidable costs, less revenue anticipated under the terms of the contract, are recognised as a provision and charged to the income statement.
An impairment loss on any assets dedicated to that contract is also recognised as described in accounting policy j.
122 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS R SHARE CAPITAL AND TREASURY SHARES Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where the Company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly attributable costs, is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled or re-issued.
Where such shares are subsequently re-issued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, is included in equity.
The Group balance sheet includes the shares held by the Pennon Employee Share Trust, relating to employee share-based payments, which have not vested at the balance sheet date.
These are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity until such time as they vest.
S DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTIONS Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid: final dividends when approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
T EMPLOYEE BENEFITS i Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined benefit pension schemes The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the year less the fair value of plan assets.
If the value of a plans assets exceeds the present value of its obligations, the resulting surplus is only recognised if the Group has an unconditional right to that surplus.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries who advise on the selection of Directors best estimates, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
The increase in liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, expected to arise from employee service in the year, is charged against operating profit.
Changes in benefits granted by the employer are recognised immediately as past service cost in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Defined contribution scheme Costs of the defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
ii Share-based payment The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment plans for employees.
The fair value of the employee services required in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the grant.
Fair values are calculated using an appropriate pricing model.
Non-market-based vesting conditions are adjusted for in assumptions as to the number of shares which are expected to vest.
U PRE-CONTRACT AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Pre-contract and development costs, including bid costs are expensed as incurred, except where it is probable that the contract will be awarded or the development completed, in which case they are recognised as an asset which is amortised to the income statement over the life of the contract.
V FAIR VALUES The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on the market price to transfer the asset or liability at the balance sheet date in an ordinary transaction between market participants.
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
In the case of non-current bank loans and other loans, the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
W TRANSFERS OF ASSETS FROM CUSTOMERS Where an item of property, plant and equipment that must be used to connect customers to the network is received from a customer, or where cash is received from a customer for the acquisition or construction of such an item, that asset is recorded and measured on initial recognition at its fair value.
The credit created by the recognition of the asset is recognised in the income statement.
The period over which the credit is recognised depends upon the nature of the service provided, as determined by the agreement with the customer.
Where the service provided is solely a connection to the network, the credit is recognised at the point of connection.
If the agreement does not specify a period, revenue is recognised over a period no longer than the economic life of the transferred asset used to provide the ongoing service.
The fair value of assets on transfer from customers is determined using a cost valuation approach allowing for depreciation.
X FOREIGN EXCHANGE Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated at the closing balance sheet rate.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Y PERPETUAL CAPITAL SECURITIES Perpetual capital securities are issued securities that qualify for recognition as equity.
Accordingly any periodic returns are accounted for as dividends and recognised directly in equity and as a liability at the time the Company becomes obligated to pay the periodic return.
This reflects the nature of the periodic returns and repayment of principal being only made at the Companys discretion.
Any associated tax impacts are recognised directly in equity.
Z NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS Non-underlying items are those that in the Directors view are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
