| STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE OUR OPERATIONS WATER AND WASTEWATER STRATEGY We are focused on providing water and wastewater services in the most efficient and sustainable way possible.
Innovation, new technologies, and the pioneering of a holistic approach to water and wastewater management are playing a key role in delivering service improvements and long-term value.
SOUTH WEST WATER BOURNEMOUTH WATER Wistlandpound Wimbleball Upper Tamar Meldon Roadford Crowdy Kennick, Tottiford & Fernworthy Stannon Trenchford Burrator Venford Colliford Siblyback Park Avon Longham Lakes College Stithians Drift Argal Reservoir KEY FACTS Key water mains 2.2 million total population served 996,929 customers 23 raw water reservoirs 18,131km of drinking water mains network 688 treatment works with 66 ultraviolet UV treatment facilities 15,600km wastewater mains network 900 wastewater pumping stations 145 bathing waters and 24 shellfish waters.
South West Water region only South West Water has delivered further improvements in line with our Business Plan to 2020, ensuring we are well placed to meet the changing demands of our sector.
The integration of Bournemouth Water is progressing well and provides further scope for performance improvement, operational efficiency and sharing best practice.
STEPHEN BIRD, MANAGING DIRECTOR, SOUTH WEST WATER 26 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Viridor continues to develop and improve its recycling and recovery and facilities for clients and partners throughout the UK.
Driven by a clear purpose and strategy, this year weve seen further investment in our essential recycling and energy recovery infrastructure, and in our people and processes, to deliver future growth, better UK resource efficiency and a quality service for our customers.
IAN McAULAY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, VIRIDOR WASTE RECYCLING AND RECOVERY VIRIDOR STRATEGY Our purpose is to give the worlds resources new life.
We remain at the forefront of the resource sector in the UK, transforming waste into energy, high quality recyclates and raw materials.
KEY FACTS Eight energy recovery facilities in operation and three more under construction across the UK Produces enough energy to power over 330,000 homes Over 150 local authority and major corporate clients, as well as over 32,000 customers across the UK Network of 313 recycling, energy recovery and waste management facilities Over 7.5 million tonnes of recyclates and resources managed each year, of which 1.8 million tonnes are recycled including organics A fleet of 650 waste collection vehicles.
co. uk 2016 27 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED WATER AND WASTEWATER TOTEX STRATEGY SECURING OUTPERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE K6 South West Water is striving for ever greater efficiency in K6, REGULATORY CONTRACT 2015-2020 building on a strong track record from K5.
The company was South West Water has the highest deemed to be at the frontier of cost efficiency when it was awarded an enhanced Business Plan assessment with the largest potential rewards in the sector for K6.
element of potential operational outperformance over K6 coming from total expenditure Totex savings and efficiencies.
At 31 March 2016 the combined water Bournemouth Water is one of the top performing water-only business South West Water and companies and was deemed to be mid-table for efficiency.
The combined water business is front-end-loading efficiencies and Bournemouth Water has delivered savings to allow early and more certain delivery of outperformance.
3 56m of Totex savings have been delivered in 2015 16, despite an 11.7% Return on Regulated Equity costs of delivering growth.
These Totex savings reflect changes in 1 the timing of delivery from those planned in the determinations.
RoRE arising from base, operational and financing returns.
ODI REWARDS SECURED South West Water has 23 outcome delivery incentives ODIs, including SIM, which have potential financial rewards or penalties.
Incentives for performance are recognised in the year of delivery, 2015 2016 RoRE whether the measure is recovered in period or as a regulatory true-up at the end of the period.
1 Base 6.0% Operational performance for the year, which is covered in more 2 Totex outperformance detail below, has resulted in an ODI reward.
Rewards were 2 2.5% secured across bathing water quality, odour complaints and water restrictions.
Improved performance is being targeted in areas 3 ODI outperformance 3 where penalties were received such as pollutions and interruptions 0.2% 1 to supply.
Bournemouth Water has 10 ODIs, including the service 4 Financing outperformance incentive mechanism SIM, which have financial rewards and 2 3.0% 4 penalties.
Rewards were achieved in leakage and reducing large scale interruptions.
Combined ODI rewards result in a 2.1m TOTAL 11.7% benefit and reflects RoRE outperformance of 0.2%.
WATERSHARE South West Water has in place a unique WaterShare mechanism to share net benefits with customers through reinvestment 1 RoRE reflects the Ofwat regulatory guidance of Base RoRE plus Outperformance.
options, future bill reductions and service improvements It is calculated using actual results before non-underlying items deflated into 2012 13 prices and compared against the Final Determination allowances sourced from exceeding planned targets.
Ofwat published models and based on notional gearing and annual average regulatory capital vehicle RCV.
WaterShare reflects the established mechanism for sharing 2 Interest outperformance is based on the outturn effective interest rate aligned Totex outperformance but also allows customers to share in with Regulatory Accounting Guidelines and adjusted for one-off credits using the 4 expected K6 RPI of 2.8%, aligned with the 2014 Final Determination cost of capital financing outperformance from movements in the market assumptions, notional debt gearing of 62.5%, and a notional tax impact of 20%.
In addition specific items are also shared with customers with differing rates depending on the company delivery.
This WaterShare mechanism has identified c. 3.1million of benefits to customers this year and following discussions with our independent WaterShare panel it has been decided that this would be earmarked for reinvestment, rather than a targeted reduction in customer bills.
3 53m from South West Water, 3m from Bournemouth Water including integration synergies already delivered.
Phasing of actual expenditure compared to the planned programme has been reflected.
Outperformance includes a reduction in the RCV run-off for the RCV element of Totex outperformance calculated based on the Final Determination PAYG.
Tax impacts reflect actual effective tax rates.
4 Financing outperformance is based on comparing average iBoxx rates, adjusted by notional Final Determination RPI of 2.8% and compared to the cost of debt assumed of 2.75%.
This is applied to an assumed new debt proportion of 25% and adjusted for the tax impact.
28 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DRINKING WATER QUALITY mean zonal compliance SOUTH WEST WATER 99.97% BOURNEMOUTH WATER 100% DRINKING WATER South West Water South West Water continued to deliver high quality drinking Development expenditure for a new 60 million 1 water in 2015, achieving 99.97%, a slight improvement on state-of-the-art North Plymouth water treatment works the previous year.
Leakage was kept within target levels, water Detailed design of improved water treatment processes such as resources were unrestricted for a 19th consecutive year and there granular activated carbon GAC filtration and UV disinfection was a 14% reduction in customer contacts regarding taste, odour at five water treatment works across the region or discolouration issues.
Mains rehabilitation and flushing Bournemouth Water achieved a perfect score for drinking water Pressure management and network modelling 1 quality, with 100% of compliance tests carried out meeting the Investment in digital infrastructure, including improvements required standard, and there was a further substantial reduction in retail engagement targeting a proactive and positive in the amount of water lost through leaks and bursts.
of customer contacts regarding taste, odour or discolouration issues was well within the target threshold, and less than 1% of Bournemouth Water customers experienced an interruption to their water supply Mains replacement schemes and new mains development lasting three hours or more.
Water treatment upgrades including GAC replacement and The average duration of supply interruptions per property the addition of UV treatment at three sites for South West Water regrettably was up by 2 minutes to 25 Improvements to the disinfection process at Alderney water minutes in 2015 16.
This was largely due to two large trunk main treatment works.
bursts affecting customers supplies: at St Blazey in Cornwall in Furthermore, improved drinking water quality and drinking water October 2015 and in Plymouth in December 2015.
In each case treatment efficiency continue to be targeted through South we took immediate steps to restore supplies as quickly as possible West Waters award-winning Upstream Thinking programme of and keep customers informed.
We have further developed our strategies to prevent and Delivered in partnership with a range of stakeholder groups, mitigate the impact of such occurrences in future.
These are including wildlife trusts and river authorities, Upstream Thinkings being supported by the use of innovative techniques for network combination of moorland restoration initiatives and agricultural pressure management and monitoring, together with investment improvement schemes seeks to reduce the level of man-made in advanced repair technologies.
and natural contaminants in the regions watercourses.
Recognising that customers regard a clean and safe supply Building on the programmes success in K5 2010-2015, South of drinking water as their top service priority, key areas of West Water is investing around 10 million between 2015 investment and activity during 2015 16 included: and 2020 to deliver improvements in 11 additional catchment areas.
This will include 700 farm improvement schemes and the restoration of c. 1,300 hectares of moorland.
At Bournemouth Water catchment management work has commenced with our partner Natural England and Catchment Sensitive Farming, working with farmers in the River Stour catchment area to educate them about the effects of their activity on raw water quality.
1 As measured by mean zonal compliance, the recognised industry measure for overall drinking water quality.
co. uk 2016 29 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED WATER AND WASTEWATER WASTEWATER We aim to ensure the safe and efficient removal and disposal of Four bathing waters were rated as poor: however this was wastewater while minimising the likelihood of sewer flooding or not attributed to any failure of South West Waters assets.
We pollution affecting homes, businesses or the environment.
recognise that bathing water quality is dependent on a wide range of factors and work continues, alongside partners including local During K5 2010-2015 South West Water focused on a targeted councils, community groups, landowners and conservationists, to programme of wastewater treatment improvements while also tackle bathing water quality issues in a holistic and sustainable way.
working to prevent potential failure through increased monitoring.
In 2015 the companys score for numeric compliance the South West Water had zero serious Category 1 pollution percentage of wastewater treatment works deemed compliant incidents in 2015 and made a substantial reduction in the number at 95.8% remained above the K5 average but was slightly below of pollution incidents overall Categories 1-4.
However, there that of the previous year 2014 96.1%.
This highlights the need for were seven significant Category 2 incidents compared with further enhancements as we strive to achieve 100% compliance three in 2014. by 2020.
A comprehensive performance review was undertaken that Our legacy of major investment to protect bathing waters, identified blockages on the network as the largest pollution risk.
in addition to accelerated bathing water quality schemes To improve the robustness of the wastewater network and implemented during 2014 15, was reflected in extremely positive assets, a strategy is being implemented to increase monitoring results for the 2015 bathing water season, which was assessed and maintenance.
We also continue to raise customer awareness under tougher new EU standards.
Of the 145 bathing waters about sewer misuse.
tested in the South West Water region, 141 97.2% were These improvements will also help to reduce the risk of sewer classified sufficient or better, with more than 70% classified flooding.
While the annual level of rainfall was relatively normal as excellent.
for the year, the number of internal and external sewer floodings was higher than the previous year as a result of extended periods of heavy rainfall in the winter of 2015 16.
30 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition to capital maintenance and improvement schemes, we are working to improve our response times to flooding incidents.
In the longer term, a reduction in sewer flooding is also being targeted through our Downstream Thinking programme of work to improve urban drainage using low-cost sustainable techniques including landscaping and sustainable drainage systems SuDS.
In 2015 16 this included: Aveton Gifford, Devon pictured, below tackling sewer flooding in a joint project alongside the parish council, the school, county council and householders to reduce the amount of surface water entering combined sewers Exmouth, Devon locations have been identified where SuDS would be most beneficial.
Community engagement and initial designs are planned for 2016 17 Kingsbridge, Devon the development of an Integrated Urban Drainage Model in partnership with the Environment Agency and Devon County Council.
Furthermore, we continue to work with organisations including the Environment Agency and local councils on flood alleviation projects.
In 2015 16 this included the completion of a 2 million scheme to protect homes in the Colebrook area of Plymouth and support for the proposed Environment Agency and Cornwall Council-led 20 million flood alleviation and regeneration scheme around St Austell for which a funding bid has been submitted to the EU.
South West Water is also providing financial support for the Exeter Flood Defence Scheme.
Technology to improve sewer network monitoring The use of new technologies is a key part of South West Waters approach to improve both efficiency and sustainability.
During 2015 16 we trialled the use of SewerBatt innovative pipe inspection technology that uses sound to assess the condition of sewers.
It is hoped that the roll-out of SewerBatt will allow for improved sewer cleansing by identifying blockages and other potential causes of pollution much more quickly than traditional methods.
co. uk 2016 31 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED WASTE RECYCLING AND RECOVERY ENERGY RECOVERY FACILITIES ERFs We are successfully establishing a significant asset base of ERFs, with eight plants, representing more than two-thirds of the committed portfolio capacity, now in operation.
Peterborough ERF was completed and became operational in December 2015.
The process of ramping up towards operational optimisation continues at the six most recently delivered ERFs.
Around 80% of the committed ERF portfolio is expected to be operational by the end of 2016 17, and is on track to deliver c. 100 million of EBITDA in 2016 17.
We expect to have c. 18% ERF market share by 2020, with a network of strategic facilities driving Viridors longer-term profit growth.
Currently we have 142 megawatts MW of renewable energy capacity from our eight operational ERFs, including our share of joint ventures, and the Greater Manchester and Walpole anaerobic digestion AD plants.
We, together with our joint venture partners, have a total operational committed ERF capacity of over 2.8 million tonnes.
Approximately 80% of inputs required across the ERF portfolio operational and those under construction are now secured under long-term contracts, helping to secure revenue streams and move to a more homogeneous risk profile across the Group.
Of the three ERFs under construction, Dunbar and Beddington ERFs are progressing as planned.
The Glasgow gasification plant is expected to enter commissioning in H1 2016 17.
All three remain on budget.
32 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ENERGY RECYCLING AND RESOURCES Viridors total energy capacity is changing in scale and across its During the year, our recycling volumes traded increased energy division: currently we have 277MW of operating capacity by 121,000 tonnes 7.3% to 1.8 million tonnes.
Recyclate prices from ERFs, AD and landfill gas including joint ventures and were lower for the year of 2015 16 compared to 2014 15.
Prices expect to export over one terawatt hour TWh of power to the have now stabilised to some degree for most commodities but national grid in 2016 17.
Once the total committed ERF portfolio remain under pressure, reflecting world economic conditions and is completed in 2018 19, ERFs alone will provide 242MW of competitive markets.
Through the Input, Throughput and Output Optimisation ITOO We have developed a portfolio management strategy to programme, we are targeting improvements in source material help realise the full potential of this growth, with a team of quality involving contract renegotiation where required, experienced energy market professionals to actively manage our restructuring, asset efficiency, productivity and yield, and specific market position.
We have also implemented framework contracts quality control of outputs.
A number of contracts have been to enable us to hedge out market risk where appropriate in the successfully renegotiated enhancing value and quality of inputs.
The business now has the ability to hedge its market Where new recycling contracts have been secured, better gate position for periods up to five years ahead.
In addition, the Group fees reflect the sharing of recyclate price risks with customers has a natural hedging opportunity which represents one third of and secure a better specified quality of inputs.
These self-help Viridors energy generation, as South West Water is a net user measures have resulted in marginal increases compared to the of electricity.
During the period, Levy Exemption Certificates LECs were We continue to operate the most extensive Material Recycling discontinued with a modest impact on Viridor.
There have also Facility MRF capacity in the UK.
Viridor is established as a been changes to the Renewable Obligation Certificates ROCs quality brand in the UK, European and Asian markets including regime.
However, Viridors ROC accreditations are unaffected China, where it holds accreditations for export.
There are clear by these changes.
Energy generation continues to be a profitable long-term regulatory drivers for recycling from the EU and UK business for us.
Government, alongside expectations from clients, including local authorities, leading corporates and the business community.
Opportunities for decentralised energy and heat utilisation combined heat and power at selective ERF and landfill gas power generation sites are being developed.
co. uk 2016 33 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED WASTE RECYCLING AND RECOVERY LANDFILL GAS POWER GENERATION LANDFILL SITES BEING MANAGED FOR CASH Our landfill energy business is being managed to maximise the AND ALTERNATIVE USE value of landfill gas power generation, while exploring alternative We have a strategy in place for landfill that will see the business commercial development opportunities and other energy uses reduce the number of sites taking new waste inputs from 18 such as photovoltaics PV and energy storage at our landfill sites.
at the end of 2014 15 to a small number of strategic sites by 2020.
Three landfills closed during the year with a fourth site At present we have 99MW of landfill gas capacity excluding closing just after the year end.
This is in line with legislative moves 3MW capacity at sub-contract sites in Suffolk.
Gas volumes and economic drivers to divert waste away from landfill.
reached peak production in 2012 13 and have been reducing gradually, partially offset by improved gas capture efficiency.
While sites are being wound down to closure and aftercare, In 2015 16 the landfill gas power generation output was our emphasis remains on maximising the value of electricity only marginally down to 562 gigawatt hours GWh generation from landfill gas, reducing costs and developing 2014 15 602GWh, reflecting a continued successful output opportunities for alternative uses for sites, or divestment.
We completed the divestment of Whitehead landfill and its associated environmental liability, generating an operating profit Average revenue per megawatt hour MWh was 2.2% lower at on disposal of 2.4 million recorded within asset sales, and 90.72 2014 15 92.72, reflecting the withdrawal of LECs.
The continue to promote similar opportunities for other sites with switch from legacy Non Fossil Fuel Obligation NFFO contracts development potential.
to ROCs continues with 94% of energy now sold under the higher value ROCs.
The remaining 6% NFFO component will The business continues to be cash generative as the wind-down migrate to ROCs in 2016 17.
Average costs increased slightly to and aftercare programme accelerates.
Viridors average gate fees 34.76 per MWh 2014 15 33.19. increased by 1% to 20.14 per tonne.
Consented landfill capacity reduced from 51.7 million cubic metres mcm at 31 March 2015 to 47.4 mcm, reflecting usage during the period and a disposal.
As previously provided for, c. 34mcm of Viridors consented landfill capacity is not expected to be used.
Landfill tax continues to increase in line with inflation and rose to 84.40 per tonne on 1 April 2016.
At Pilsworth landfill in Greater Manchester, Viridor is hosting an 8 million cryogenic energy storage pilot project, funded by the Department of Energy and Climate Change, which is due to become operational shortly.
Landfill sites have very good potential as energy reservoirs as most already have established grid connections, making them valuable for energy generation and storage.
Novel energy storage options are being assessed through Viridors Technology and Innovation Forum.
34 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTRACTS AND COLLECTIONS JOINT VENTURES Performance across our major local authority contracts All three of Viridors joint ventures continue to perform well.
around the UK the more significant contracts include Viridor Laing Greater Manchester VLGM, a joint venture Greater Manchester, Glasgow, Lancashire, Somerset and between Viridor and John Laing Infrastructure, is delivering the West Sussex and the Thames Water contract remains broadly 25-year Greater Manchester Waste PFI.
Now in its eighth year, in line with last year.
this remains the UKs largest ever combined waste and energy Our large-scale contract successes in 2015 16 include a 25-year project.
The recycling, recovery and waste management facilities contracted service for Tomorrows Valley in Wales where four serving the contract, which handle in excess of one million local authorities have come together to create a 190 million tonnes of material per annum, are operated by Viridor on a residual waste contract for 90,000 tonnes per annum, a 10-year sub-contract basis.
contract with South Lanarkshire Council with a potential 5-year Solid recovered fuel produced from the residual waste from extension for treatment of 80,000 tonnes per annum of residual Greater Manchester is used to generate heat and power at waste via Dunbar ERF, and Clyde Valley in Scotland where five Runcorn 1 ERF TPSCo, a joint venture between Viridor, John local authorities have come together to create a 450 million Laing Infrastructure and Inovyn, which has operated well since it residual waste contract for 190,000 tonnes per annum over came on line in 2015.
The third joint venture at Lakeside ERF a 50 50 joint venture with The solid performance of the collection business reflected the Grundon Waste Management is in its sixth year of operation and benefits of sustained management action.
Collection remains a continues to outperform its original power generation and waste key focus in securing increased input tonnages for the business.
