OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The Groups principal accounting policies are set out in note 2.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement and make use of estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies.
Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and expectations of future events that management believe to be reasonable.
However, given the judgemental nature of such estimates, actual results could be different from the assumptions used.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS AND GOODWILL In order to determine whether impairments, or reversals of previous impairments, are required for non-financial assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of an individual asset or assets grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
To reflect changes in the waste market, including the structural decline of landfill, and the prominence of recycling and recovering value from waste, together with the reorientation of Viridors operations towards ERFs, the Group has applied judgement in determining the allocation of CGUs.
In the updated allocations non-strategic landfill assets are considered separate CGUs, as are landfill gas assets, with other remaining assets allocated to regional CGUs.
The Impairment assessment of non-current financial assets is based on projections of future cash flows for the cash generating unit and the use of a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth after the period covered by specific plans.
The cash flows are discounted by the weighted average cost of capital appropriate to the business activity which is reviewed on an annual basis.
Judgement and estimation is required in determining the appropriate cash flows and discount rate used in the assessment.
The lowest level to which goodwill is allocated, monitored and tested by management is the segmental level, in line with the segments set out in note 5.
The initial goodwill recorded and subsequent impairment analysis require management to make estimations of future cash flows, terminal values and an assessment of the long-term pre-tax discount rate to be applied to those cash flows, which reflects an assessment of the cost of capital of the cash generating unit.
The principal assumptions used to assess impairment are set out in notes 15 and 17.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND LANDFILL RESTORATION PROVISIONS Environmental control and aftercare costs are incurred during the operational life of each landfill site and for a considerable period thereafter.
The period of aftercare post-closure and the level of costs expected are uncertain and can vary significantly from site to site.
Key factors are the type of waste, the speed at which it decomposes, the volume of leachate requiring treatment and regulatory requirements specific to the site.
The amounts expected to be incurred are based on landfill site operating lives, taking account of the anticipated decline in landfill activity.
The provisions are based on latest assumptions reflecting recent historic data and future cost estimates.
The provisions are recognised in the financial statements at the net present value of the estimated future expenditure required to settle the Groups obligations.
A discount rate is applied to recognise the time value of money and is unwound over the life of the provision.
This is included in the income statement as a financial item within finance costs.
As at 31 March 2016 the Groups environmental and landfill restoration provisions were 182.1 million 2015 193.0 million note 32.
Where a restoration provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset is recognised and depreciated in accordance with the Groups depreciation policy.
As at 31 March 2016 these assets had a net book value of 11.7 million 2015 17.9 million note 17.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes for which actuarial valuations are carried out as determined by the trustees at intervals of not more than three years.
The last such valuation of the main scheme was as at 31 March 2016.
The pension cost and liabilities under IAS 19 are assessed in accordance with Directors best estimates using the advice of an independent qualified actuary and assumptions in the latest actuarial valuation.
The assumptions are based on member data supplied to the actuary and market observations for interest rates and inflation, supplemented by discussions between the actuary and management.
The mortality assumption uses a scheme-specific calculation based on CMI 2016 actuarial tables with an allowance for future longevity improvement.
The principal assumptions used to measure schemes liabilities, sensitivities to changes in those assumptions and future funding obligations are set out in note 30.
TAXATION The Groups current tax provision of 37.1 million relates to managements judgement of the amount of tax payable on open tax computations where liabilities remain to be agreed with HMRC.
The Group evaluates uncertain tax items, where a tax item is subject to interpretation and remains to be agreed.
Principally the uncertain tax items for which a provision is made, relate to the interpretation of tax legislation regarding financing arrangements that have been entered into in the normal course of business.
Provisions established for uncertain items are made using a best estimate of the tax expected to be paid, based on a qualitative assessment of all relevant information.
In assessing any appropriate provision requirements for uncertain tax items, the Group considers progress made in discussions with HMRC, expert advice on the likely outcome and any recent developments in case law.
Due to the uncertainty associated with such tax items, it is possible that at a future date, on conclusion of the open matters, the final outcome may vary significantly.
Whilst a range of outcomes is reasonably possible, the extent of this range is additional liabilities of up to 20 million to a reduction in liabilities of up to 52 million.
Any such variations will affect the tax financial results in the year in which such a determination is made.
In addition to provisions established for uncertain tax items, the Group has other uncertain tax items where the Group has paid in full the tax HMRC interpret as due, and therefore would benefit by up to 70 million should such tax positions be concluded in the Groups favour.
SERVICE CONCESSION ARRANGEMENTS Consideration from public sector entities for the operation of waste management service concessions is treated as contract receivables or other intangible assets, depending upon the right to receive cash from the asset.
Consideration relating to contract receivables is split between profit on the construction of assets, operation of the service and provision of finance recognised as interest receivable.
Managements allocation between these three elements is assessed to reflect external market conditions according to the type of service provided.
co. uk 2016 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTINUED LANDFILL COSTS The estimation of landfill reserves is of particular importance in assessing landfill costs since the projected cost of a landfill site is depreciated over its estimated operational life taking into account the usage of void space and gas production at the site post-closure.
In estimating the operational life of a landfill site, consideration is given to the expected ongoing decline in the landfill market.
Where Viridor plans or has constructed a competing energy recovery facility at certain existing landfill sites, the void which consequently is no longer expected to be used is excluded from the calculation of operational life.
The estimates of landfill reserves are regularly reviewed and updated during the financial year for usage and other events for example site extensions.
Estimates are also subject to physical review by external advisers.
A number of factors impact on the depreciation of landfill reserves including the available void space, future capital expenditure and operating costs.
The assumptions are revised as these factors change.
The estimate of gas production at landfill sites post-closure reduces the depreciation of landfill reserves.
An assessment is undertaken for individual sites of the historic profile of gas production during landfilling activity and the projected generation post-closure according to the type of waste contained in the landfill and expected profile of gas production over time.
REVENUE RECOGNITION The Group recognises revenue at the time of delivery of services.
Payments received in advance of services delivered are recorded as a liability.
South West Water and Bournemouth Water raise bills and recognise revenue in accordance with their entitlement to receive revenue in line with the limits established by the Periodic Review price-setting process.
For water and wastewater customers with water meters, revenue recognised is dependent upon the volume supplied including an estimate of the sales value of units supplied between the date of the last meter reading and the year-end.
Estimated usage is based on historic data, judgement and assumptions.
Viridor estimates income from certain contractual revenue streams based on tonnages, cost and historic data which are dependent on agreement with the customer after the delivery of the service.
PROVISION FOR DOUBTFUL DEBTS At the balance sheet date each subsidiary evaluates the collectability of trade receivables and records provisions for doubtful debts based on experience including comparisons of the relative age of accounts and consideration of actual write-off history.
The actual level of debt collected may differ from the estimated levels of recovery.
As at 31 March 2016 the Groups current trade receivables were 303.6 million, against which 95.6 million had been provided for impairment note 22.
NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS In establishing which items are disclosed separately as non-underlying, to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance, the Directors exercise their judgement in assessing the size, nature or incidence of specific items.
128 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
