KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Where the Company has received its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the cash equivalent The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in of the additional shares is recognised as income.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
These comprise standards and interpreDividends from overseas companies are shown gross of tations approved by the International Accounting Standards withholding tax.
Board IASB, together with such interpretations by the Fixed interest returns on non-equity securities are recogInternational Accounting Standards and Standing Internised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the efpretations Committee as have been approved by the IASB fective yield on the investment, being amortisation of and still remain in effect, to the extent that these have been premium accretion of discount spread over the life of the adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling and all Interest income and other income is accounted for on an values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 accruals basis.
EXPENSES The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where the presentational guidance set out in All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Exthe Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for penses are charged to revenue except those incurred in the investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment maintenance and enhancement of the Companys assets Companies the AIC in November 2014 is consistent and taking account of the expected long term returns, as with the requirements of IFRSs, the Directors have sought follows: to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant Investment advisory fees have been allocated 35 per cent.
with the recommendation of the SORP.
A number of new standards, including IFRS 9 Financial Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition or disposal of Instruments, have been issued but are not effective for this investments are expensed to capital.
These have not been adopted early and the Group does not consider that the future adoption of TAXATION any new standards, in the form currently available, will In accordance with the SORP, the marginal rate of tax is have any material impact on the financial statements as applied to taxable net revenue.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverBASIS OF CONSOLIDATION able on differences between the carrying amounts of assets The consolidated financial statements incorporate the fiand liabilities in the financial statements and the correfinancial statements of the Company and the entities consponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable trolled by the Company its subsidiary made up to profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liabil- 30 April each year.
Control is achieved if, and only if, the ity method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all Group has power over the investee i. e. existing rights that taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from profits will be available against which deductible tempoits involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its rary differences can be utilised.
power over the investee to affect its returns.
The subsidiary INVESTMENTS is not considered an investment entity in the context of IFRS 10.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The Comdate where a purchase or sale is under a contract the terms pany has availed itself of the relief from showing an Income of which require delivery within a period of time estabStatement for the parent company, granted under Section lished by the market concerned, and are measured at fair 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit of the Comvalue being the consideration payable or receivable.
Investments are designated in terms of IFRSs as investments held at fair value through profit or loss, and are PRESENTATION OF INCOME STATEMENT measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which In order better to reflect the activities of an investment is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by on the convention of the exchange on which the investment the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the is quoted.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are valued Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital at the closing price released by the relevant investment nature has been presented alongside the Income Statemanager.
The subsidiary is held at net asset value adjusted ment.
as necessary to represent the best estimate of fair value in preparing the Companys financial statements.
INCOME Any gain or loss arising from a movement in investments Dividends are recognised as income when the shareholders is included as a gain or loss on investments in the income right to receive payment has been established, normally the statement as a capital item.
Dividends receivable on equity shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
