NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 35th Annual General make an offer or enter into an agreement which Meeting AGM of Personal Assets Trust Public would or might require Securities to be allotted Limited Company will be held at The Roxburghe or granted after the expiry of such authority and Hotel, 38 Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on Thursday the Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant 21 July 2016 at 12 noon for the following purposes: Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions: resolutions which will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to 30 April 2016 be received.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the That, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 year to 30 April 2016 be approved.
above, and in substitution for any existing power but without prejudice to the exercise of any such 3.
That Hamish Buchan, who retires from office power prior to the date hereof, the Directors of annually, be re-elected as a Director.
the Company be and are hereby generally 4.
That Gordon Neilly, who retires from office empowered, pursuant to Section 570 of the annually, be re-elected as a Director.
Companies Act 2006 the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act, 5.
That Stuart Paul, who retires from office including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or annually, be re-elected as a Director.
to convert securities into, Ordinary shares in the 6.
That Frank Rushbrook, who retires from office Company for cash either pursuant to the annually, be re-elected as a Director.
authority given by Resolution 9 above or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as defined in Section 7.
That Robin Angus, who retires from office 724 of the Act as if Section 561 1 of the Act did annually, be re-elected as a Director.
not apply to any such allotment of equity 8.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as securities, provided that this power: Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to a expires at the conclusion of the next determine their remuneration.
Annual General Meeting of the Company 9.
Authority to allot shares after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of That, in substitution for any existing authority, this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save but without prejudice to the exercise of any such that the Company may, before such expiry, authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors make an offer or agreement which would of the Company be and are hereby generally and or might require equity securities to be unconditionally authorised in accordance with allotted after such expiry and the Directors Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the may allot equity securities in pursuance of Act to exercise all the powers of the Company any such offer or agreement as if the power to allot shares in the Company and to grant conferred hereby had not expired: and rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company Securities b shall be limited to the allotment of equity provided that such authority shall be limited to securities up to an aggregate nominal value the allotment of shares and the grant of rights in of 2,186,800, being 10 per cent.
of the respect of shares with an aggregate nominal nominal value of the issued share capital of value of up to 2,186,800, such authority to the Company at 2 June 2016. expire at the conclusion of the next Annual This power applies in relation to a sale of shares General Meeting of the Company after the which is an allotment of equity securities by passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 virtue of Section 560 2 of the Act as if in the first months from the passing of this resolution, paragraph of this resolution the words subject whichever is the earlier, unless previously to the passing of Resolution 9 above were revoked, varied or extended by the Company in omitted.
a general meeting, save that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of this authority Page 34 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 11.
Share buy-back authority ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current That, in substitution for any existing authority independent bid on the London Stock but without prejudice to the exercise of any such Exchange: and authority prior to the date hereof, the Company d unless previously varied, revoked or be and is hereby generally and unconditionally renewed by the Company in a general authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with meeting, the authority hereby conferred Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the shall expire at the conclusion of the Act, to make market purchases within the Companys next Annual General Meeting meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully or on 31 October 2017, whichever is the paid Ordinary shares of 12.50 each in the earlier, save that the Company may, prior capital of the Company Ordinary shares to such expiry, enter into a contract to either for retention as Treasury shares for future purchase Ordinary shares under such reissue, resale or transfer or for cancellation, authority which will or might be completed provided that: or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a the maximum aggregate number of a purchase of Ordinary shares pursuant to Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be any such contract.
purchased is 262,240 or, if less, the number representing 14.99% of the issued share 12.
That a General Meeting of the Company other capital of the Company at the date of the than an Annual General Meeting may be called passing of this resolution: on not less than 14 clear days notice provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion b the minimum price excluding expenses of the next Annual General Meeting of the which may be paid for each Ordinary share Company.
is 12.50: c the maximum price excluding expenses By Order of the Board which may be paid for each Ordinary share shall not be greater than the higher of: Steven K Davidson i 5 per cent.
above the average middle Secretary market quotation on the London Stock 10 St Colme Street Exchange of an Ordinary share over Edinburgh EH3 6AA the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 2 June 2016 Notes 1.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at appointment must be received by the Companys registrar the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days before attend, speak and vote on his her behalf.
Such proxy need the time of the meeting.
not also be a shareholder of the Company.
Only those shareholders having their names entered on the more than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed to Companys share register not later than 6.00 pm on 19 July exercise rights attaching to different shares held by the 2016 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00 pm on the day shareholder.
which is 2 days excluding non-working days prior to the 2.
A proxy form for use by shareholders at the meeting is date of the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend enclosed with this document.
Proxies must be lodged with and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, not less on the Companys share register after that time shall be than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the disregarded in determining the rights of any shareholder to time appointed for the meeting together with any power of attend, speak and vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed.
provision in any enactment, the Articles of Association of Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in 5.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one person.
or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its 3.
As an alternative to completing the hard copy proxy form behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that such you can appoint a proxy electronically at sharevote.
corporate representatives do not do so in relation to the For an electronic proxy appointment to be valid, your same shares.
Page 35 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service notes can be exercised only by members of the Company.
may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof 8.
At 2 June 2016, the latest practicable date prior to by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual, publication of this document, the Companys issued share and by logging on to the website www.
capital comprised 1,749,443 Ordinary shares of 12.50 each CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored with a total of 1,749,443 voting rights.
members, and those CREST members who have appointed 9.
Any person holding 3 per cent.
of the total voting rights in a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST the Company who appoints a person other than the sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to Chairman as his her proxy must ensure that both he she take the appropriate action on their behalf.
and such third party comply with their respective disclosure In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate 10.
Information regarding the meeting, including information CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & available from the Companys website, www.
Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the 11.
Under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the information required for such instruction, as described in Company must answer any question relating to the the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment attending the meeting unless: to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be a answering the question would interfere unduly with received by the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited ID the preparation for the meeting or involve the RA 19, by no later than 12 noon on 19 July 2016.
No such disclosure of confidential information: message received through the CREST network after this b the answer has already been given on a website in time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt the form of an answer to a question: or will be taken to be the time as determined by the c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or timestamp applied to the message by the CREST the good order of the meeting that the question be application host from which the Companys registrar is answered.
able to retrieve the message by inquiry to CREST in the 12.
Shareholders are advised that, unless otherwise stated, any manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change telephone number, website or e-mail address which may be of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST set out in this notice of meeting or in any related documents should be communicated to the appointee through other including the proxy form is not to be used for the means.
purposes of serving information or documents on, or CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST otherwise communicating with, the Company for any sponsors or voting service providers should note that purposes other than those expressly stated.
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available 13.
The members of the Company may require the Company special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
without payment to publish, on its website, a statement Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply which is also to be passed to the auditors setting out any in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, The Company will be required to do so once it has received or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service such requests from either members representing at least 5 provider s, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or per cent.
of the total voting rights of the Company or at voting service provider s take s such action as shall be least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their requests must be made in writing and must state the CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, senders full name and address and be sent to the in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual Companys registered address at 10 St Colme Street, concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and Edinburgh EH3 6AA.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy and the service contract of the Executive Director will be Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation available for inspection at the registered office of the 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Company during normal business hours on any weekday 7.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from whose shares are held on their behalf by another person the date of this notice and at the location of the meeting and who have been nominated to receive communications for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the meeting.
Members meeting the threshold requirements set out in the Persons may have a right under an agreement with the Companies Act 2006 have the right a to require the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be Company to give notice of any resolution which can appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
properly be, and is to be, moved at the meeting pursuant Alternatively, if Nominated Persons do not have such a to section 338 of the Companies Act 2006: and or b to right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right require the Company to include a matter in the business to under such an agreement to give instructions to the person be dealt with at the meeting, pursuant to section 338A of holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The the Companies Act 2006. statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not Page 36
