Governance report Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance of the annual financial report with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare the Group and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the parent company financial statements for each financial year.
"applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Underthat law they are required to prepare the Groups financial of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union ""EU"" taken as a whole: and and applicable law and they have elected to prepare the parent the Strategic Report Directors Report includes a fair review company financial statements on the same basis."
Under company of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the law the Directors must not approve the financial statements consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
state of affairs of the Group and the parent company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing each of the We consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, Group and parent company financial statements for each financial is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary year, the Directors are required to: information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Ian Kellett The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Group Chief Executive Officer records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 25 May 2016 companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Group website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73
