Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 201 6 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Accounting Standards Committee IASC, as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and IFRIC guidance.
The Companys presentational currency is pounds Sterling.
Pounds Sterling is also the functional currency of the Company because it is the currency which is most relevant to the majority of the Companys shareholders and creditors and the currency in which the majority of the Companys operating expenses are paid.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently for all years presented are set out below: a Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the inclusion of investments and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice S ORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in November 2014 which superseded the S ORP issued in January 2009, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the S ORP.
There have been no changes in accounting policies as a result of the application of the new S ORP.
The financial position of the Company as at 30 April 2016 is shown in the balance sheet on page 85.
As at 30April 2016 the Companys total assets exceeded its total liabilities by a multiple of over 32.
The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are held in accordance with the Companys investment policy, as set out on page 41 and these securities are readily realisable.
The Directors consider that the Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Companys financial statements.
b Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with the guidance set out by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The results presented in the revenue return column is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance with certain requirements set out in section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010. c Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis and may be considered to be either revenue or capital items.
The facts and circumstances are considered on a case by case basis before a conclusion on appropriate allocation is reached.
Where the Company has received dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any excess in value of shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Franked income is stated net of tax credits.
Unfranked income includes the taxes deducted at source.
Bank interest and other income receivable are accounted for on an accruals basis and is recognised in the period in which it was earned.
Interest outstanding at the year end is calculated on a time apportioned basis using the market rates of interest.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 87
