3 Directors Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the integrity of the Companys website although day to day Financial Statements in accordance with applicable maintenance has been delegated to Polar Capital LLP.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Company law requires the Directors to prepare preparation and dissemination of financial statements financial statements for each financial year.
Under may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
that law the Directors have prepared the Companys The work carried out by the auditors does not involve financial statements in accordance with International consideration of these matters and, accordingly the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that the European Union.
may occur to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the The Directors consider that the Annual Report and International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Financial Statements, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Under company law the Directors must not approve the information necessary for shareholders to assess the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they Companys performance, business model and strategy.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for Disclosure of Information to the Auditors that period.
In preparing these financial statements, As far as the Directors are aware and to the best of their the Directors are required to: knowledge, having made enquiries, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditors are unaware and select suitable accounting policies and then apply the Directors have taken steps to make themselves aware them consistently: of any relevant audit information and to establish that the make judgements and accounting estimates that are Auditors are aware of such information.
reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the Going Concern European Union have been followed, subject to any The Board has through the Audit Committee considered material departures disclosed and explained in the and assessed the Companys position as at 30 April 2016. financial statements: and The work of the Audit committee is described on page 67 prepare the financial statements on the going concern and sets out the factors on which the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the basis for the preparation of the financial statements Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate The Company has a portfolio of investments listed and accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain traded on stock exchanges around the world, the the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable majority of which can be sold within one working day, accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company providing considerable financial resources.
After making and enable them to ensure that the financial statements enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the that the Company has adequate resources to continue Companies Act 2006. in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the concern basis in preparing the annual report and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the financial statements.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 76 Longer-Term Viability The Board through the Audit Committee considered and addressed the ability of the Company to continue to operate over a longer period.
The work of the Audit Committee in looking at the longer-term viability is described on pages 70 and 71.
As an investment company with a liquid portfolio, 98% of which can be sold in seven working days, limited expenses which are modest in relation to the asset base of the Company, and no employees the Directors are of the opinion that the Company can continue in operation for a 4 year period up to the next continuation vote in2020.
Responsibility Statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, who are listed on pages 52 and 53, confirm to the best of theirknowledge: the financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and the Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, Strategic Report and Directors Report together constituting the Management Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and financial position of the Company and include a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 13 July 2016 and the responsibility statements and signed on its behalf by Michael Moule, Chairman of the Board.
Michael Moule Chairman Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 77
