Glossary between a defined benefit pension scheme income statement in line with the Annual Exchange Rates AER and an insurance company, whereby an emergence of surpluses on the Actual Exchange Rates are actual historical insurance company insures some or all related contracts.
exchange rates for the specific accounting of the liabilities of the pension scheme.
period, being the average rates over the Deferred annuities period for the income statement and the Cash surrender value Annuities or pensions due to be paid from closing rates for the balance sheet at the The amount of cash available to a a future date or when the policyholder balance sheet date.
policyholder on the surrender of or reaches a specified age.
withdrawal from a life insurance policy Annual premium equivalent Discretionary participation or annuity contract.
or APE features or DPF A measure of new business activity that Constant Exchange Rates CER A contractual right to receive, as a is calculated as the sum of annualised Constant Exchange Rates Prudential plc supplement to guaranteed benefits, regular premiums from new business plus reports its results at both actual exchange additional benefits: 10 per cent of single premiums on new rates AER to reflect actual results and business written during the period.
That are likely to be a significant portion also constant exchange rates CER of the total contractual benefits: so as to eliminate the impact from exchange Asset backed security translation.
CER results are calculated by Whose amount or timing is A security whose value and income translating prior period results using contractually at the discretion of the payments are derived from and current period foreign currency exchange issuer: and collateralised or backed by a specified rates, ie, current period average rates for pool of underlying assets.
The pool of That are contractually based on asset, the income statements and current period assets is typically a group of small and fund, company or other entity closing rate for the balance sheet.
illiquid assets that are unable to be performance.
Closed-book life insurance Dividend cover business Available for sale AFS Dividend cover is calculated as operating A closed book is essentially a group of Securities that have been acquired neither profit after tax on an IFRS basis, divided insurance policies that are no longer sold, for short-term sale nor to be held to by the current period interim dividend plus but are still featured on the books of a life maturity.
AFS securities are measured the proposed second interim dividend.
The at fair value on the statement of financial insurance company has closed the books position with unrealised gains and losses Endowment product on new sales of these products which will being booked in Other Comprehensive An ordinary individual life insurance remain in run-off until the policies expire Income instead of the income statement.
product that provides the insured party and all claims are settled.
with various guaranteed benefits if it Back book of business survives specific maturity dates or periods Core structural borrowings The insurance policies sold in past periods stated in the policy.
Upon the death of the Borrowings which Prudential considers that are still in force and hence are still insured party within the coverage period, to form part of its core capital structure recorded on the insurers balance sheet.
a designated beneficiary receives the and exclude operational borrowings.
Bonuses Credit risk Bonuses refer to the non-guaranteed European Embedded Value The risk of loss if another party fails benefit added to participating life insurance or EEV to meet its obligations, or fails to do so policies and are the way in which Financial results that are prepared on in a timely fashion.
policyholders receive their share of the a supplementary basis to the Groups profits of the policies.
There are normally consolidated IFRS results and which are Currency risk two types of bonus: prepared in accordance with a set of The risk that asset or liability values, cash principles issued by the Chief Financial Regular bonus expected to be added flows, income or expenses will be affected Officers Forum of European Insurance every year during the term of the policy.
by changes in exchange rates.
Also Companies in May 2004 and expanded It is not guaranteed that a regular bonus referred to as foreign exchange risk.
by the Additional Guidance of EEV will be added each year, but once it is Disclosures published in October 2005. added, it cannot be reversed, also Deferred acquisition costs The principles are designed to capture known as annual or reversionary bonus: or DAC the value of the new business sold in the and Acquisition costs are expenses of an period and of the business in force.
insurer which are incurred in connection Final bonus an additional bonus with the acquisition of new insurance expected to be paid when policyholders Fixed annuities contracts or the renewal of existing take money from the policies.
If Fixed annuity contracts written in the US insurance policies.
They include investment return has been low over which allow for tax-deferred accumulation commissions and other variable sales the lifetime of the policy, a final bonus of funds, are used for asset accumulation inducements and the direct costs of issuing may not be paid.
Final bonuses may in retirement planning and for providing the policy, such as underwriting and other vary and are not guaranteed.
income in retirement and offer flexible policy issue expenses.
The contract holder pays IFRS, an element of acquisition costs are Bulk annuity the insurer a premium, which is credited to deferred, ie not expensed in the year A bulk annuity, sometimes referred to the contract holders account.
Periodically, incurred, and instead amortised in the as a bulk purchase annuity, is a contract 398 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 07 Additional information interest is credited to the contract holders Guaranteed minimum death Internal rate of return IRR account and administrative charges are benefit GMDB US The IRR is equivalent to the discount rate deducted, as appropriate.
The basic death benefit offered under at which the present EEV value of the variable annuity contracts, which specifies post-tax cash flows expected to be earned Fixed indexed annuities over the lifetime of the business written that if the owner dies before annuity These are similar to fixed annuities in that income payments begin, the beneficiary in shareholder-backed life funds is equal the contract holder pays the insurer a to the total invested capital to support will receive a payment equal to the greater premium, which is credited to the contract of the contract value or purchase payments the writing of the business.
The capital holders account and, periodically, interest included in the calculation of the IRR less withdrawals.
is credited to the contract holders account is equal to the amount required to pay and administrative charges are deducted, Guaranteed minimum income acquisition costs and set up reserves less as appropriate.
An annual minimum benefit GMIB US premiums received, plus encumbered interest rate may be guaranteed, although A guarantee that ensures, under certain capital.
The impact of the time value actual interest credited may be higher and conditions, that the owner may annuitise of options and guarantees is included is linked to an equity index over its indexed in the calculation.
the variable annuity contract based on option period.
the greater of a the actual account value Internal vesting or b a pay-out base equal to premiums Funds under management Internal vestings are proceeds from a credited with some interest rate, or the These comprise funds of the Group held Prudential policy which the policyholder maximum anniversary value of the account in the statement of financial position and has decided to reinvest in a Prudential prior to annuitisation.
external funds that are managed by annuity product.
Guaranteed minimum International Financial Reporting withdrawal benefit GMWB US Group free surplus Standards IFRS A guarantee in a variable annuity that Group free surplus at the end of the period Accounting standards that all publicly listed promises that the owner may make annual comprises free surplus for the insurance groups in the European Union are required withdrawals of a defined amount for the life businesses, representing the excess of to apply in preparing consolidated financial of the owner or until the total guaranteed the net worth over the required capital statements.
amount is recovered, regardless of market included in the EEV results, and IFRS performance or the actual account balance.
net assets for the asset management Investment grade businesses excluding goodwill.
The free Health and protection Investments rated BBBor above for S&P, surplus generated during the period Baa3 or above for Moodys.
Generally they These comprise health and personal comprises the movement in this balance are bonds that are judged by the rating accident insurance products, which excluding foreign exchange, capital and agency as likely enough to meet payment provide morbidity or sickness benefits and other reserve movements.
Specifically, obligations that banks are allowed to invest include health, disability, critical illness and it includes amounts maturing from the in them.
Health and protection in-force operations during the period products are sold both as standalone less the investment in new business, Investment-linked products policies and as riders that can be attached the effect of market movements and other or contracts to life insurance products.
Insurance products where the surrender protection riders are presented together value of the policy is linked to the value of with ordinary individual life insurance Guaranteed annuities underlying investments such as collective products for purposes of disclosure of Policies that pay out a fixed amount investment schemes, internal investment financial information.
of benefit for a defined period.
pools or other property or fluctuations in Immediate annuity the value of underlying investment or Guaranteed investment contract An annuity in which payments to the indices.
Investment risk associated with GIC US the product is usually borne by the annuitant or beneficiary start at once An investment contract between an upon establishment of the annuity plan policyholder.
Insurance coverage, insurance company and an institutional investment and administration services or scheme.
Such annuities are almost investor, which provides a stated rate of always purchased with a single are provided for which the charges are return on deposits over a specified period deducted from the investment fund assets.
They typically provide for partial or Benefits payable will depend on the price total withdrawals at book value if needed In-force of the units prevailing at the time of for certain liquidity needs of the plan.
An insurance policy or contract reflected surrender, death or the maturity of the on records that has not expired, matured or product, subject to surrender charges.
Guaranteed minimum otherwise been surrendered or terminated.
These are also referred to as unit-linked accumulation benefit products or unit-linked contracts.
GMAB US Inherited estate A guarantee that ensures that the contract Liquidity coverage ratio For life insurance proprietary companies, value of a variable annuity contract will be surplus capital available on top of what Prudential calculates this as assets and at least equal to a certain minimum amount is necessary to cover policyholders resources available to us that are readily after a specified number of years.
An inherited convertible to cash to cover corporate orphan estate is effectively surplus capital obligations in a prescribed stress scenario.
on a realistic basis built over time and not We calculate this ratio over a range of time allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 399 Glossary Continued Liquidity premium Open-ended investment Prudential Regulation Authority This comprises the premium that is company OEIC or PRA required to compensate for the lower A collective investment fund structured The PRA is a UK regulatory body liquidity of corporate bonds relative as a limited company in which investors responsible for prudential regulation and to swaps and the mark to market risk can buy and sell shares.
supervision of banks, building societies, premium that is required to compensate credit unions, insurers and major Operational borrowings for the potential volatility in corporate investment firms.
Borrowings which arise in the normal bond spreads and hence market values Regular premium product at the time of sale.
A life insurance product with regular Market value reduction MVR Participating funds periodic premium payments.
A reduction applied to the payment on Distinct portfolios where the policyholders Rider with-profits bonds when policyholders have a contractual right to receive at the surrender in adverse market conditions.
discretion of the insurer additional benefits A supplemental plan that can be attached based on factors such as the performance to a basic insurance policy, with payment Money Market Fund MMF of a pool of assets held within the fund, as of additional premium.
An MMF is an open-ended mutual fund a supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
Risk margin reserve that invests in short-term debt securities The insurer may either have discretion RMR charge such as US treasury bills and commercial as to the timing of the allocation of those paper.
The purpose of an MMF is to benefits to participating policyholders or An RMR charge is included within provide investors with a safe place to may have discretion as to the timing and operating profit based on longer-term invest easily accessible cash-equivalent the amount of the additional benefits.
For investment returns and represents a charge assets characterised as a low-risk, Prudential the most significant participating for long-term expected defaults of debt low-return investment.
funds are with-profits funds for business securities, determined by reference to the written in the UK, Hong Kong, Malaysia credit quality of the portfolio.
Scottish Amicable Insurance Rate of death, varying by such parameters Participating policies or as age, gender and health, used in pricing Fund SAIF participating business and computing liabilities for future SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the policyholders of life and annuity products, Contracts of insurance where the Prudential Assurance Companys which contain mortality risks.
policyholders have a contractual right long-term fund following the acquisition to receive, at the discretion of the insurer, of the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Net premiums additional benefits based on factors Life Assurance Society in 1997.
The fund Life insurance premiums, net of reinsurance such as investment performance, as a is solely for the benefit of policyholders ceded to third-party reinsurers.
supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
Shareholders of Prudential plc This is also referred to as with-profits have no interest in the profits of this fund Net worth business.
although they are entitled to asset Net assets for EEV reporting purposes management fees on this business.
that reflect the regulatory basis position, Payback period sometimes with adjustments to achieve Separate account Payback period is the time in which the consistency with the IFRS treatment of initial cash outflow of investment is A separate account is a pool of investments certain items.
expected to be recovered from the cash held by an insurance company not in inflows generated by the investment.
We or separate from its general account.
New business margin measure cash outflow by our investment They generally accrue to the policyholder.
The value of new business on an EEV basis of free surplus in new business sales.
A separate account allows an investor to expressed as a percentage of the present The payback period equals the time taken choose an investment category according value of new business premiums expected for this business to generate free surplus to his individual risk tolerance, and desire to be received from the new business.
are measured on an undiscounted basis.
New business profit Single premiums The profits, calculated in accordance with Present value of new business Single premium policies of insurance are European Embedded Value Principles, premiums or PVNBP those that require only a single lump sum from business sold in the financial reporting The present value of new business payment from the policyholder.
premiums is calculated as equalling Stochastic techniques single premiums plus the present value Non-participating business Stochastic techniques incorporate results of expected premiums of new regular A life insurance policy where the from repeated simulations using key premium business, allowing for lapses and policyholder is not entitled to a share of the financial parameters which are subject other assumptions made in determining companys profits and surplus, but receives to random variations and are projected the EEV new business contribution.
Also known into the future.
Examples include pure risk policies eg fixed annuities, term insurance, critical illness and unit-linked insurance contracts.
400 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 07 Additional information Subordinated debt Unit-linked products or A fixed interest issue or debt that ranks unit-linked contracts below other debt in order of priority for See investment-linked products repayment if the issuer is liquidated.
Holders are compensated for the added Universal life risk through higher rates of interest.
Under EU insurance regulation, An insurance product where the customer subordinated debt is not treated as a pays flexible premiums, subject to specified liability and counts towards the coverage limits, which are accumulated in an account of the required minimum margin of and are credited with interest at a rate solvency, with limitations.
either set by the insurer or reflecting returns on a pool of matching assets.
Surrender The customer may vary the death benefit The termination of a life insurance policy and the contract may permit the customer or annuity contract at the request of the to withdraw the account balance, typically policyholder after which the policyholder subject to a surrender charge.
receives the cash surrender value, if any, Variable annuity VA US of the contract.
An annuity whose value is determined by Surrender charge or the performance of underlying investment surrender fee options that frequently includes securities.
The fee charged to a policyholder when A variable annuitys value is not guaranteed a life insurance policy or annuity contract and will fluctuate, depending on the value is surrendered for its cash surrender of its underlying investments.
The holder value prior to the end of the surrender of a variable annuity assumes the charge period.
investment risk and the funds backing a variable annuity are held in the insurance Takaful companys separate account.
VAs are Insurance that is compliant with similar to unit-linked annuities in the UK.
Whole of life Time value of options A type of life insurance policy that provides and guarantees lifetime protection: premiums must usually The value of financial options and be paid for life.
The sum assured is paid out guarantees comprises two parts, whenever death occurs.
Commonly used the intrinsic value and the time value.
The intrinsic value is given by a With-profits funds deterministic valuation on best estimate assumptions.
The time value is the See participating funds on page 400. additional value arising from the variability Yield of economic outcomes in the future.
A measure of the income received from Total shareholder return TSR an investment compared to the price paid TSR represents the growth in the value for the investment.
of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the ex-dividend date.
Unallocated surplus Unallocated surplus is recorded wholly as a liability and represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for Prudentials with-profits funds.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the withprofits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
