07 Additional information How to contact us Prudential plc Prudential UK and Europe Institutional Analyst and Laurence Pountney Hill 3 Sheldon Square Investor Enquiries London EC4R 0HH London W2 6PR Tel 44 0 20 7548 3300 Tel 44 0 20 7220 7588 Tel 44 0 800 000 000 E-mail investor.
co. uk UK Register Private John Foley Shareholder Enquiries Chief Executive Tel 0371 384 2035 Board International shareholders Paul Manduca Tel 44 0 121 415 7026 Chairman M&G Irish Branch Register Private Laurence Pountney Hill Shareholder Enquiries Mike Wells London EC4R 0HH Tel 353 1 553 0050 Group Chief Executive Tel 44 0 20 7626 4588 www.
co. uk Hong Kong Branch Register Nic Nicandrou Private Shareholder Enquiries Chief Financial Officer Anne Richards Tel 852 2862 8555 Chief Executive Penny James US American Depository Group Chief Risk Officer Receipts Holder Enquiries Prudential Corporation Asia Tel 1 651 453 2128 13th Floor Group Executive Committee One International Finance Centre The Central Depository Pte 1 Harbour View Street Limited Shareholder Enquiries Julian Adams Central Tel 65 6535 7511 Group Regulatory and Government Hong Kong Relations Director Tel 852 2918 6300 Media Enquiries www.
com Raghu Hariharan Tel 44 0 20 7548 2776 Director of Strategy and Capital E-mail media.
co. uk Tony Wilkey Market Relations Chief Executive Jonathan Oliver Group Communications Director Jackson National Life Alan Porter Insurance Company Group General Counsel 1 Corporate Way and Company Secretary Lansing Michigan 48951 Al-Noor Ramji USA Group Chief Digital Officer Tel 1 517 381 5500 www.
com Tim Rolfe Group Human Resources Director Barry Stowe Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of North American Business Unit www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 405 and other uncertainties of future Prudential public Forward-looking statements acquisitions or combinations within limited company This document may contain forwardrelevant industries: the impact of changes Incorporated and registered in England looking statements with respect to certain in capital, solvency standards, accounting and Wales of Prudential's plans and its goals and standards or relevant regulatory expectations relating to its future financial Registered office frameworks, and tax and other legislation condition, performance, results, strategy and regulations in the jurisdictions in which Laurence Pountney Hill and objectives.
Statements that are not Prudential and its affiliates operate: and the London EC4R 0HH historical facts, including statements about impact of legal and regulatory actions, Registered number 1397169 Prudentials beliefs and expectations and investigations and disputes.
These and including, without limitation, statements www.
co. uk other important factors may, for example, containing the words may, will, should, result in changes to assumptions used for continue, aims, estimates, projects, determining results of operations or Prudential plc is a holding company, believes, intends, expects, plans, re-estimations of reserves for future policy subsidiaries of which are authorised seeks and anticipates, and words of benefits.
Further discussion of these and and regulated by the Prudential similar meaning, are forward-looking other important factors that could cause Regulation Authority and the Financial statements.
These statements are based Prudential's actual future financial Conduct Authority on plans, estimates and projections as at condition or performance or other the time they are made, and therefore indicated results to differ, possibly undue reliance should not be placed on materially, from those anticipated in them.
By their nature, all forward-looking Prudential's forward-looking statements statements involve risk and uncertainty.
can be found under the 'Risk factors' A number of important factors could heading in the Annual Report and the Risk cause Prudential's actual future financial factors heading of Prudentials most recent condition or performance or other annual report on Form 20-F filed with the indicated results to differ materially from US Securities and Exchange Commission.
those indicated in any forward-looking Prudentials most recent annual report and statement.
Such factors include, but are Form 20-F are available on its website at not limited to, future market conditions, www.
co. uk including fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, the potential for a Any forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as of the date sustained low-interest rate environment, and the performance of financial markets on which they are made.
Prudential expressly disclaims any obligation to generally: the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, including, for update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this document or example, new government initiatives: the political, legal and economic effects of the any other forward-looking statements it may make, whether as a result of future UKs vote to leave the European Union: the impact of continuing designation as a events, new information or otherwise except as required pursuant to the UK Global Systemically Important Insurer or G-SII: the impact of competition, Prospectus Rules, the UK Listing Rules, the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the economic uncertainty, inflation and deflation: the effect on Prudentials Hong Kong Listing Rules, the SGX-ST listing rules or other applicable laws and business and results from, in particular, mortality and morbidity trends, lapse rates regulations.
and policy renewal rates: the timing, impact 406 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 07 Additional information Front cover: Phuong Lan Prudential Vietnam Phuong Lan holds PRUmultiple care and PRU-Wealth Assured policies from Prudential Vietnam.
These products provide financial protection against critical illness during Phuong Lans lifetime, ensure availability of funds to help realise her goals in her later years, and enhance her familys prosperity.
Back cover: Helen Prudential UK and Europe See page 29 for further details.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 407 408 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk History Providing financial security since 1848 Successive generations have looked to Prudential to safeguard their financial security from industrial workers and their families in Victorian Britain, to around 24 million insurance customers worldwide today.
Our financial strength, heritage, prudence and focus on our customers longterm needs ensure that people continue to turn to our trusted brands to help them plan for today and tomorrow.
1848 1923 1994 2000 Prudential is established as Prudentials first overseas life Prudential Corporation Asia Prudential and CITIC launch the Prudential Mutual Assurance branch is established in India, is formed in Hong Kong as first SinoBritish life insurance Investment and Loan Association with the first policy being sold a regional head office to joint venture in China.
in Hatton Garden, London, to a tea planter in Assam.
expand operations beyond an 2014 offering loans and life assurance existing presence in Malaysia, 1949 to professional people.
Prudential acquires businesses The Man from the Pru in Ghana and Kenya, marking 1854 1999 advertising campaign is its entry into the fastgrowing Prudential opens the Industrial launched.
Prudential acquires M&G, African life insurance industry.
Department to sell a new type pioneer of unit trusts in the 1986 of insurance, Industrial UK and a leading provider Prudential acquires Jackson Insurance, to the working of investment products.
classes, for premiums of in the United States.
co. uk Freds story In June 1949, an article describing the life and work of a longserving Prudential agent, Fred Sawyer, appeared in the Weekly Illustrated magazine.
One of the pictures was so striking that it prompted Prudentials publicity department to use it in their next advertising campaign, and the figure of Fred Sawyer came to represent a typical agent.
Service, says Pru agent Sawyer, is the secret of success.
He has 1,500 clients and collects in the morning and evening, fitting in clerical work in the afternoon.
But he still finds time to be a special constable, a school manager and a district councillor.
I know the people, says Mr Sawyer, I wouldnt change my job for any other.
Weekly Illustrated magazine June 1949 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 Prudential public limited company Incorporated and registered in England and Wales Registered office Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Registered number 1397169 www.
co. uk Prudential plc is a holding company, subsidiaries of which are authorised and regulated, as applicable, by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.
Printed on Amadeus 75 Matt, a paper made from 75 per cent recycled postconsumer waste and 25 per cent fibre sourced from fully sustainable forests: and Amadeus 100 White Offset which is made from 100 per cent recycled postconsumer waste.
All material used in this report has been independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
All pulps used are elemental chlorine free, and the inks used are vegetable oil based.
The manufacturing mills and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are FSC chainofcustody certified.
Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn Printed in the UK by CPI Colour
