How we operate Board roles and governance Prudential has dual primary listings in the UK and Hong Kong, and has therefore adopted a governance structure based on the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibility for governance lies with the Board.
The descriptions below explain Board roles and how duties are fulfilled.
Chairman Paul Manduca Overall responsibility for leadership of the Board and Paul plays a leading part in the identification of potential ensuring its effectiveness candidates for Board succession, working closely with the Group Chief Executive in the succession planning process Responsible for setting the Boards agenda, ensuring the for Executive Directors right focus and promoting constructive debate Paul focuses on promoting a culture of openness and Responsible for making recommendations to the debate among Directors, helping to build and maintain Nomination and Governance Committee for the constructive relationships between the Executive and appointment of Directors, and ensuring appropriate Non-executive Directors.
When chairing Board meetings, induction and ongoing development of Board members Paul ensures that all views are heard and that the NonLeading the Board in determining appropriate corporate executive Directors have an opportunity to challenge governance and business values management constructively Meeting regularly with the Non-executive Directors, During the year, Paul met with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present without the Executive Directors being present, on five occasions Key contact point for the independent chairs of the Groups material subsidiaries Paul meets regularly with the independent chairs of the Groups material subsidiaries Representing the Company with external stakeholders and acting as key contact for shareholders and regulators to Externally, Paul has a regular programme of meetings with ensure effective communication on governance and major shareholders throughout the year strategy Paul plays a key role in the Groups engagement with Paul works closely with the Group Chief Executive and the regulators Company Secretary to ensure effective Board governance and operation.
This included ensuring that Board meetings have the right focus, that enough time is allocated for the discussion of agenda items, in particular strategic issues, and that Directors receive timely and relevant information 82 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Mike Wells Philip Remnant Responsible for the operational management of the Acting as sounding board for the Chairman Group, on behalf of the Board Leading the Non-executive Directors in conducting the Leading the Executive Directors and other senior Chairmans annual evaluation executives in the management of all aspects of the Being available to shareholders to address concerns not day-to-day business of the Group resolved through normal channels Responsible for implementation of the Boards decisions Philip kept in close contact with the Chairman throughout Establishing processes to ensure operations are compliant the year with regulatory requirements Philip held meetings in Q1 2017 with the Non-executive Mike sets policies, provides day-to-day leadership and Directors to review the Chairmans performance makes decisions on matters affecting the operation, performance and strategy of the Group, seeking Board Philip holds meetings throughout the year with Nonapproval for matters reserved to the Board executive Directors as needed, without management being present Mike chairs the Group Executive Committee GEC, which comprises the Executive Directors and the Group In 2016, Philip offered meetings to Prudentials key functional heads.
The Executive Committee supports Mike shareholders to provide them with an additional channel in the operational management of the Group, providing the of communication expertise to fulfil the strategic objectives set by the Board Mike works closely with the Executive Directors in developing the Operating Plan, for approval by the Board Mike keeps in close contact with the Chairman and ensures he is briefed on key issues Mike meets with the Groups key regulators worldwide Committee Chairs Non-executive Directors Responsible for leadership and governance of the Boards Responsible for providing constructive and effective principal Committees challenge Responsible for setting the agenda for Committee Contributing to the development of proposals on Group meetings and reporting on the Committees activities strategy, offering input based on individual and collective to the Board experience Audit and Risk Committee Chairs act as key contact points Responsible for scrutinising the performance of for the independent chairs of the audit and risk management in meeting agreed goals and objectives committees of the Groups material subsidiaries Serving on principal Board Committees The Committee Chairs worked closely with the Company The Non-executive Directors have engaged throughout Secretary and management to ensure Committee the year with the Executive Directors and management, at governance continued to be effective throughout the year Board and Committee meetings, as part of site visits, Each Committee Chair provided a written update of through training sessions and on an informal basis Committee business to the Board, followed by a verbal They contributed to the development of strategic options update after each Committee meeting through one-to-one meetings with the Group Strategy Ann Godbehere, the Audit Committee Chair, and Howard team and participated in the annual Strategy Away Day Davies, the Risk Committee Chair, commenced quarterly All Non-executive Directors serve on at least one of the meetings with chairs of the audit and risk committees of principal Board Committees the material subsidiaries during 2016 and provided updates to the Audit and Risk Committees respectively www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 83 How we operate Continued Board decision making The Board is collectively responsible: To shareholders for the long-term success of the Company and, in particular, for setting the Groups strategy and risk appetite: For providing leadership within a framework of effective controls: and For monitoring managements performance against strategic goals and ensuring appropriate resources are available to achieve these goals.
When making decisions, the Board has due regard to the balance of interests between shareholders, employees, customers and community.
The Board operates in accordance with relevant corporate governance codes and has established a number of principal committees comprising Non-executive Directors to ensure Board duties are appropriately allocated between members.
The Group has established and regularly reviews a governance framework designed to promote appropriate behaviours across the Group to ensure prudent management and protection of the interests of shareholders, customers and other key stakeholders.
As part of the governance framework, the Board has established a control framework to identify significant risks and apply appropriate measures to manage and mitigate them described more fully on pages 90 and 91.
The framework sets out the behaviours expected of the Groups employees and requires all business units to seek delegated authority from the Board to carry out actions exceeding pre-determined limits or which could have a material effect on the Group.
Specific key decisions have been reserved to the Board for decision.
These include strategic decisions, determination of interim dividends and recommendation of final dividends to shareholders, approval of major transactions, approval of key financial reporting, approval of the overall risk appetite and capital and liquidity positions, and responsibility for the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management.
Board Nomination and Audit Risk Remuneration Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Paul Manduca Ann Godbehere Howard Davies Anthony Nightingale Ensures that the Board Responsible for the Leads on and oversees Recommends the retains an appropriate integrity of the Groups the Groups overall risk Directors Remuneration balance of skills to financial reporting, appetite, risk tolerance Policy for approval by support the strategic including scrutinising and strategy shareholders objectives of the Group accounting policies Approves the Groups Approves the individual Ensures that an Monitors the risk management remuneration packages effective framework for effectiveness of internal framework and of the Chairman, the senior succession control and risk monitors its Executive Directors, planning is in place management systems, effectiveness other senior executives including compliance and the non-executive Recommends Supports the Board arrangements directors of material appointments to the and management in subsidiaries Board and its principal Monitors the embedding and Committees and effectiveness and maintaining a Determines the overall appointments of objectivity of internal supportive culture in Remuneration Policy for non-executive directors and external auditors relation to the the Group to the boards of material management of risk Approves the internal Reviews the design and subsidiaries audit plan and development of share Oversees the recommends the plans requiring governance of material appointment of the shareholder approval subsidiaries external auditor and approves and assesses performance targets where applicable See Nomination See Audit Committee See Risk Committee See Directors and Governance report on pages 95 report on pages 103 remuneration report Committee report to 102 to 105 on pages 111 to 157 on pages 92 to 94 Terms of reference for the principal Committees can be accessed at www.
co. uk Each Committee reviews its terms of reference at least annually and recommends changes to the Board for its approval.
84 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance Authority for the operational management of the Groups businesses in order to implement Board strategy and decisions has been delegated to the Group Chief Executive for execution or further delegation by him.
The Group Chief Executive is supported by the Group Executive Committee, which receives reports on performance and implementation of strategy for each business unit and discusses major projects and other activities related to the attainment of strategy.
The members of the Group Executive Committee and their roles are set out on page 405.
To manage the Groups delegated authorities and to monitor material expenditure, the Group Chief Executive has established a Chief Executives Committee, which meets on a weekly basis.
The Chief Executive of each business unit has responsibility for the management of that business unit.
Key areas of focus how the Board spent its time The Board met on 10 occasions during the year, which included meetings in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and Lansing, USA.
At the overseas meetings, additional sessions were held outside of the formal Board meetings, to allow the Board to focus on the regional business operations and to spend time meeting local senior management.
The Board also held a separate strategy event over two days during the year.
The table below gives an overview of how the Board spent its time in 2016 and its key areas of focus.
Feb Apr May Jun Jul Sep Nov Dec Strategy and implementation Full review of strategy Strategic conclusions finalised Operating plan review Strategic objectives monitoring Major projects Review of operational performance 1,2, 3,4 1,3, 4 1,4 3 1,4 2,3, 4 1,2, 4 1,3, 4 Report from Committee Chairs Financial reporting and dividends Full year Half year Review of financial performance Business unit reviews PCA Jackson M&G UK&E PPMG Africa Regulation ORSA, Solvency II, IMAP CRO report Regulatory and compliance update 5 Governance and stakeholders Board evaluation tracking Succession planning Corporate responsibility report Diversity and inclusion Talent review Feedback from Chair NED investor meetings Investor conference planning Notes 1 Audit Committee.
At a number of meetings, the Board considered, and where appropriate approved, major projects.
These included Prudential Africas opening in Zambia, with its acquisition of Professional Life Assurance: the listing of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, Prudentials Indian joint venture with ICICI Bank: commencement of the sale of Prudentials life business in Korea and the implementation of a global risk and portfolio management platform for the Groups asset management businesses, working with BlackRock.
In addition to the eight full meetings outlined above, two further meetings were held to approve the final full and half year financial reports.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 85 How we operate Continued Individual Directors attendance at meetings throughout the year is set out in the table below.
Board and Committee meeting attendance during 2016 Nomination and Audit Governance Remuneration Risk General Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Number of meetings held 10 10 4 6 8 1 Chairman Paul Manduca 10 4 1 Executive Directors Mike Wells 10 1 Nic Nicandrou 10 1 Penny James 10 1 John Foley 10 1 1 Michael McLintock 4 4 1 2 Anne Richards 6 6 Barry Stowe 10 1 Tony Wilkey 10 1 Non-executive Directors Philip Remnant 10 10 4 6 1 Howard Davies 10 10 4 8 1 Ann Godbehere 10 10 4 8 1 3 Alistair Johnston 4 4 6 6 1 David Law 10 9 10 1 Kai Nargolwala 10 6 8 1 Anthony Nightingale 10 4 6 1 Alice Schroeder 10 10 1 Lord Turner 9 10 7 8 1 The Audit and Risk Committees held a joint meeting in addition to those listed, which was attended by all members from both Committees.
Notes 1 Michael McLintock retired as a Director on 6 June 2016.
2 Anne Richards was appointed as a Director on 7 June 2016.
3 Alistair Johnston retired as a Director from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held on 19 May 2016.
Board and Committee papers are usually provided one week in advance of a meeting.
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, his or her views are canvassed in advance by the Chairman of that meeting where possible.
Chairman and Chairs of the Group Audit Reviews of certain past transactions were Board effectiveness and Risk Committees would need to be undertaken by the Risk Committee and the Actions during 2016 arising implemented.
outcome was considered by the Board from the 2015 review during its strategy discussions in June.
During the year, the action points identified In the first half of 2016, governance in respect of the 2015 evaluation were processes were established for the The Board also discussed a full report of the addressed and the Board received an Chairman and the Audit and Risk Groups past actions in Africa which update on progress against those actions in Committee Chairs to meet with their allowed them to confirm the rationale September 2016 and February 2017.
The material subsidiary counterparts and keep behind the Groups decision to invest in that key themes of the 2015 evaluation are set the Board appropriately updated.
In region and the acquisitions made to date.
addition, the Audit and Risk Committees Board papers On Board processes, the receive written updates outlining the Governance of subsidiary boards 2015 feedback highlighted the progress business discussed by the material The 2015 Board evaluation recognised made during the year, in particular subsidiary audit and risk committees.
that, following the decision to appoint improvements in clarity of papers.
This was independent non-executive directors to The Nomination and Governance another area of focus during 2016, with certain of the Groups larger subsidiaries, Committee played a key part in the work undertaken to ensure that the right referred to as the material subsidiaries, establishment and embedding of these balance continued to be struck regarding more formal oversight of the governance governance processes.
Regular progress the level of detail provided in papers, arrangements for the material subsidiary updates were provided to the Board, which especially for technically complex matters.
In addition, tracked alignment to regulatory Concise papers assisted the Board in a process for appointing the material expectations.
subsidiary independent directors and the Post action reviews The 2015 relationship between them and the evaluation noted that the Board should continue to analyse past decisions closely, testing assumptions and projections made in the past.
86 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance During the year, updates were issued to Board agenda The Board agreed to The Chairman is also responsible for senior staff explaining the rationale for continue to ensure time spent at its ensuring that all Directors update their Board paper content guidelines, including meetings reflected the Groups strategic skills, knowledge and familiarity with the a reminder of best practices and timelines.
Directors regularly receive reports The review process for papers is designed primary ways to achieve constructive on the Groups businesses and the to ensure all relevant aspects of Directors debate is to ensure pre-Board preparation regulatory and industry-specific duties are addressed and consideration is is of a very high standard with papers environments in which it operates.
All given to risk, legal, regulatory and other continuing to be delivered on time with Directors have the opportunity to discuss appropriate stakeholder aspects.
succinctly presented facts creating, where their development needs as part of the needed, a clear decision path.
The Board annual Board effectiveness review and Products and customers The Board also agreed to build on the work done in Directors are asked to provide a record of continued holding in-depth focus sessions 2016 to further increase the Boards focus training received externally on an annual on products and customers of the Group, on products and customers.
primarily through Board visits to the business units.
In 2016, these focus Senior employee focus The Board In 2016, the Board took time for particular sessions took place when the Board visited focus on the Groups US and Asian evaluation noted the number of successful its overseas operations, as more fully internal promotions over 2015 and 2016, businesses.
During visits to the US and described below.
Malaysia, the Board received updates on and that managements focus was now on rebuilding strength in the senior key products and distribution, risks and 2016 review and actions performance in the US and in the Asian management teams around the Group for 2017 below GEC level.
In 2017, the Board will businesses, including regulatory The performance evaluation of the Board developments and their potential impact ensure it remains properly updated in this and its principal Committees for 2016 was area and that it continues to have on future business.
The Boards overseas conducted internally at the end of 2016 and visits also allowed the Directors to meet opportunities to meet senior management beginning of 2017, through a across all the Groups businesses.
with the local senior management teams.
The findings were Remuneration The Board evaluation Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia presented to the Board in February 2017 noted the growing complexity of Prudential Malaysia and an action plan agreed to address areas remuneration across all UK-listed of focus identified by the evaluation.
Overview of life insurance industry companies and also the pace of changes in and comparative position in the The review confirmed that the Board these areas as a result of focus by marketplace continued to operate effectively during the government and institutional investor year and no major areas requiring groups over recent months.
The Board will Products and strategy improvement were highlighted.
implement an annual training session for Financial performance any Non-executive Directors not on the The performance during 2016 of the Remuneration Committee to discuss the Update on Takaful business: Non-executive Directors and the Group Directors Remuneration Policy and the governance, performance, strategy Chief Executive was evaluated by the remuneration structures contained in it, as Chairman in individual meetings.
Philip Asia financial performance, strategy well as broader market practice Remnant, the Senior Independent Director, and growth update, risk profile and risk information.
led the Non-executive Directors in a function development, and HR planning performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Board will track its progress in Overview of Eastspring Investments addressing these themes at its meetings Executive Directors are subject to regular throughout the course of 2017 and report Lansing, USA review and the Group Chief Executive on actions taken in its next Annual Report.
Regulatory update impact of the individually appraised the performance of Department of Labors fiduciary rule on each of the Executive Directors as part of Directors development Jackson and the industry the annual Group-wide performance The Chairman is responsible for ensuring evaluation of all staff.
Jackson: that induction programmes are provided for all new Directors.
These are tailored to The following themes were identified as Comparative position in the areas for focus in 2017: reflect the experience of each Director and marketplace and marketing their position as either Executive or Subsidiary governance The Board Products and operating environment Non-executive Directors.
Anne Richards evaluation recognised that the appointment induction was carried out by both Group Financial performance of independent non-executive chairs and and M&G, and included updates on the directors to the Groups material Risk function development Groups results, the role of the Board and subsidiaries had been well executed, and a its Committees, the Groups key risks and PPM America performance good governance framework established.
the risk management framework, as well as The Boards focus for 2017 would be on Cyber security within the North the compliance environment in which the ensuring good subsidiary governance was American business Group operates.
M&G provided a detailed maintained and best governance practices briefing on product range, the markets in were shared between the material which it operates and the overall subsidiaries.
Ensuring that reporting by the competitive environment.
material subsidiaries to the Board and its Committees continued to be of a high standard would also be emphasised.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 87 How we operate Continued The Board was kept updated on key Diversity Shareholder engagement political and regulatory developments, Given the global reach of the Groups As a major institutional investor, the Board including Solvency II implementation and operations, and our business strategy and recognises the importance of maintaining reporting, the US Department of Labor long-term focus, the Board makes every an appropriate level of two-way fiduciary rule, the Senior Insurance effort to ensure it is able to recruit directors communication with shareholders.
Managers Regime, the UK regulators from different backgrounds, with diverse The Company holds an ongoing thematic review of annuity sales and the experience, perspective and skills.
This programme of regular contact with major implementation of the Market Abuse diversity not only contributes towards shareholders, conducted by the Chairman, Regulation.
In addition, Directors were Board effectiveness but is essential for to discuss their views on the Companys provided with updates at each Board successfully delivering the strategy of an governance.
The Senior Independent meeting on other legal and regulatory international Group, as reflected in our Director offers meetings to major changes and developments that could Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
shareholders as needed and other impact the industry or the Group.
The Board is committed to recruiting the Non-executive Directors are available to Committee members received updates at best available talent and appointing the meet with major shareholders on request.
Committee meetings on areas of particular most appropriate candidate for each role, Shareholder feedback from these meetings relevance to the respective Committees while at the same time aiming for is communicated to the Board.
and were kept updated on ongoing appropriate diversity on the Board.
This developments in regulations, as well as the approach informed the Nomination and In addition, a full programme of impact these have on the Group.
The Risk Governance Committees ongoing engagement with shareholders, potential Committee received in-depth information activities carried out during 2016 in respect investors and analysts, in the UK and on a number of business areas and of succession planning for Executive and overseas, is conducted each year by the products in 2016, focusing on the particular Non-executive Directors.
Group Chief Executive and the Chief risks arising and how these are managed.
Financial Officer, led by the Director of The Board does not endorse quotas as Some of those topics were also shared with Strategy and Capital Market Relations.
As these may generate unintended the Audit Committee to ensure it was part of this, a conference for investors and consequences, but continues to commit to appropriately briefed to assess any impact analysts has been held on a regular basis developing a robust and diverse talent on financial reporting and internal control.
since 2010, with in-depth business pipeline and increasing representation of In 2016, the Audit Committee and Risk presentations and opportunities for women in senior positions in the Group and Committee held a joint session in which attendees to meet with members of the on the Board.
As part of this commitment, they were provided with an update on the Board and senior management through the the Board may endorse relevant impact of Solvency II on the 2015 results.
Most recently, the measurable objectives for increasing Group held a conference for investors in diversity.
For example, in 2016 the Board November 2016.
The Group Chief decided to sign the HM Treasury Women Executive, Chief Financial Officer and in Finance Charter, with the aim to have in investor relations team also attend major place at least 30 per cent women in senior financial services conferences to present to management positions by the end of 2021. and meet with the Companys shareholders.
In 2016, as part of the investor relations programme, over 360 meetings were held with approximately 800 individual institutional investors across the UK, in continental Europe, the US and Asia.
The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for further shareholder engagement, for the Chairman to explain the Companys progress and, along with other members of the Board, to answer any questions.
All Directors then in office attended the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Details of the 2017 Annual General Meeting are available on www.
88 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
