PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 97 further statutorY and other information health & safety community and charity PZ Cussons aims to maintain a safe workplace at all locations We support a range of charitable causes, both in the UK and in which it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business overseas, mainly through a UK-based shareholding trust, with activities are undertaken in a responsible manner and in additional contributions made through staff time and gifts in accordance with the relevant statutory legislation, and that kind.
PZ Cussons continues to provide assistance and donations employees at all levels participate in the development, to significant global fund raising initiatives and recognises its promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy working responsibility to the communities in which it operates.
We are environment for employees, visitors and the public.
The committed to establishing and maintaining strong relationships Company employs health & safety specialists and, where with community groups, particularly in developing markets.
appropriate, provides on-site medical facilities for employees.
auditor The Company continues to monitor and increase standards  LLP has signified its willingness to ofhealth & safety at work through risk assessment, safety continue in office and a resolution for its appointment will be audits, formal incident investigation and training.
Our proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
investment in plant and equipment enables us to modernise designs and operate safer and more efficient processes.
directors report of PZ cussons Plc For the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, Employment and staff development the report of the Directors of PZ Cussons Plc for the year As an international group, and particularly bearing in mind our ended 31 May 2016 comprises this page and the information operations in developing countries, we focus resources on the contained in the Report of the Directors on pages 4 to 7. employment and development of local staff with the intention of assisting both our operations in those countries and the Registered office local community.
Employees are involved at all levels of Manchester Business Park decision making throughout the Group with effective 3500 Aviator Way communication via regular consultation groups and briefings.
Manchester Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in M22 5TG performance and over the past year employees of all grades have received training through a wide range of courses.
registered number Company registered number 00019457 The employment policies of the Group embody the principles of equal opportunity, training and development and rewards registrars appropriate to local markets which are tailored to meet the Computershare Investor Services Plc needs of its businesses and the areas in which they operate.
The Pavilions This includes procedures to support the Groups policy that Bridgwater Road disabled persons shall be considered for appropriate Bristol employment and subsequent training and career development.
BS13 8AE The Company continues to share valuable experience and best practice within the Group through employee secondment.
company secretary S P Plant 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
