46 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements General information PZ Cussons Plc is a public limited company which is listed on the London stock exchange and is domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 99.
These financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and have been presented in m. Foreign operations are included inaccordance with the policies set out in note 1.
1. accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and standards currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRS IC.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRSs, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts ofrevenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge ofthe amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements have been prepared using consistent accounting policies except as stated below.
standards and interpretations The following new and amended standards are relevant to the Group and have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements: Annual improvements 2010-2012 effective 1 July 2014 endorsed for 1 Feb 2015 Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits, on defined benefit plans effective 1 July 2014 endorsed for 1 Feb 2015 Annual improvements 2011-2013 effective 1 July 2014 endorsed for 1 Jan 2015 IFRIC 21, Levies effective 1 January 2014 endorsed 17 June 2014 IFRS IC agenda decision regarding offsetting and cash pooling arrangements The adoption of these new and amended standards has not had a material impact on the Group financial statements with the exception of the IFRS IC agenda decision which has the following impact on the closing balance sheet: restatement The Groups UK operations operate a composite banking arrangement, under which the Group and its bankers have a legal right to offset certain balances which may be in a cash or overdraft position.
Previously, the Group offset these cash and overdraft balances in determining cash and short-term deposits as presented on the Group Balance Sheet.
In March 2016, the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC issued an agenda decision regarding the treatment of offsetting and cash-pooling arrangements in accordance with IAS 32: Financial instruments: Presentation.
This provided additional guidance onwhen bank overdrafts in cash-pooling arrangements would meet the requirements for offsetting in accordance with IAS 32.
Following this additional guidance, the Group has reviewed its cash-pooling arrangements and has revised its presentation of bank overdrafts resulting in 70.5 million of bank overdrafts being reported in borrowings, with a corresponding increase in cash and short-term deposits.
Comparatives at 31 May 2015 have also been restated with an additional 55.3 million of bank overdrafts being reported in borrowings, with a corresponding increase in cash and short-term deposits.
The Group has considered the requirements of IAS 8 in respect of changes in accounting policies and the requirement to present a balance sheet as at the start date of the comparative period.
As the change in accounting policy has no impact on the Groups reported profit, or the net assets of the Group, the Group does not consider the adjustment to be material to require the presentation of an additional balance sheet.
The impact on the opening comparative period, being as at 1 June 2014, would have been to increase both cash and short-term deposits and borrowings by 34.3 million.
6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 46 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 47 not adopted by the Group The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following new standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yeteffective.
The Group does not currently believe adoption of these would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective from the dates stated below.
Standards have been endorsed by the EU unless otherwise stated.
Annual improvements 2012-2014 effective 1 January 2016 Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on acquisition of an interest in a joint operation, effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38, Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 41, Agriculture on bearer plants effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendments to IAS 27, Separate financial statements on equity accounting effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities, and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures on applying the consolidation exemption effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements disclosure initiative effective 1 January 2016 subject to EU endorsement IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 16, Leases effective 1 January 2019 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc and entities controlled by PZCussons Plc its subsidiaries made up to 31 May each year.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement and the interest of non-controlling interests is stated as the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the non-controlling interests interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the non-controlling interest has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The interest of non-controlling interests in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Where non-controlling interests are acquired, the excess of cost over the value of the noncontrolling interest acquired is recorded in equity.
Where necessary, the accounts of subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit of the Group before finance income, finance costs and taxation.
indd 47 18 08 2016 16:30 48 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1. accounting policies continued exceptional items The Group adopts a columnar income statement format to highlight significant items within the Group results for the year.
Such items are considered by the Directors to be exceptional in nature rather than being representative of the underlying trading of the Group, and may include, but are not limited to, such items as restructuring costs, acquisition related costs, material impairments of non-current assets, including receivables, material profits and losses on disposal of property, plant, equipment and brands, profit or loss on disposal or termination of operations and material pension settlements and amendments.
The Directors apply judgment in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their magnitude and nature should be disclosed in a separate column of the income statement and notes to the financial statements as Exceptional items.
The Directors believe that the separate disclosure of these items is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The fair value of consideration of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at the lower of the assets previous carrying value and fair value less costs-to-sell.
All acquisition costs are expensed as incurred as exceptional items.
Where acquisitions are achieved in stages, commonly referred to as stepped acquisitions, and result in control being obtained by the Group as part of a transaction, the Group re-assesses the fair value of its existing interest in associates or joint ventures as part of determining the fair value of consideration.
In determining the fair value of the Groups existing interest, reference is given to the fair value of consideration paid to increase the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures as well as considering the specific fair values of assets and liabilities transferred to gain control.
Any increase or impairment of the Groups existing interest will be credited charged to the Income Statement as an exceptional item.
Interests in joint ventures The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
PZ Cussons Plc has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the joint ventures, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill also includes amounts to reflect deferred tax liabilities established in relation to acquisitions in accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary ora jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
indd 48 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 49 other intangible assets An acquired brand is only recognised on the balance sheet where it is supported by a registered trademark, where brand earnings are separately identifiable and the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the business.
Brands acquired as part of a business combination are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Trademarks, patents and purchased brands are recorded at purchase cost.
Brands currently held are not amortised as the Directors believe they have indefinite lives due to their market leading nature.
In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets, the brands are tested for impairment annually, and more frequently where there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired brands is appropriate due to the stable long-term nature of the business and the enduring nature of the brands.
A core element of the Groups strategy is to invest in building its brands through an ongoing programme of product innovation and renovation and sustained and rising marketing particularly media investment.
A brand typically comprises an assortment of base products and more innovative products.
Both contribute to the enduring nature of the brand.
The base products establish the long-term positioning of the brand while a succession of innovations attracts ongoing consumer interest and attention.
Indefinite life brands are allocated to the cash-generating units to which they relate and are tested annually for impairment.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as income.
Profit or losses on disposal of brands are included within operating profit within exceptional items.
revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, rebates and sales related taxes but including interest receivable on sales on extended credit.
Sales of goods are recognised when title has passed and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred which is generally on receipt or collection by customers.
Should management consider that the criteria for recognition are not met, revenue is deferred until such time as the consideration has been fully earned.
Trade spend, which consists primarily of customer pricing allowances, placement listing fees and promotional allowances, are governed by agreements with our trade customers retailers and distributors.
Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to reflect the expected promotional activity and our historical experience.
These accruals are reported within trade and other payables.
leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentational currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the actual rate of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
indd 49 18 08 2016 16:30 50 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1. accounting policies continued In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising on the translation and consolidation of foreign operations income statements and balance sheets denominated in foreign currencies are recorded as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative translation differences will be transferred to the income statement in the period of the disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
finance income and costs Finance income and costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Government grants Government grants related to property, plant and equipment are reflected in the balance sheet as deferred income and credited to the income statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
Government grants relating to income are reflected in the balance sheet as deferred income and credited to the income statement over the period to which the grant relates.
share based payments The Group operates a Performance Share Plan and an Executive Share Option Scheme for senior executives, both of which involve equity-settled share based payments.
Equity-settled share based payments under the Executive Share Option Scheme were measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date was expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The awards under the Performance Share Plan are measured at the fair value at the date of grant and are expensed over the vesting period based on the expected outcome of the performance and service conditions.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been in effect throughout the year.
The Group makes provisions for current tax payable based on the Directors best estimate of likely tax liabilities that may arise based on interpretations of current and expected tax legislation.
Where tax legislation is not clear or is ambiguous the Directors make estimates of potential tax exposures that are reviewed and revised as additional information becomes available.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor accounting profit.
indd 50 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 51 Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administration purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRS less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All other assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following basis: Freehold buildings at rates not less than 2% Leasehold buildings at rates which will reduce the book value to nil on or before the termination of the leases with a minimum of 2% Plant and machinery not less than 8% Fixtures, fittings and vehicles not less than 20% In the case of major projects depreciation is provided from the date the project in question is brought into use.
Land and assets inthe course of construction are not depreciated.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds andthe carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement for the year.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment that is subject to depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Property, plant and equipment that suffers impairment is reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each balance sheet date.
inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the FIFO method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Where net realisable value is lower than cost, provision for impairment is made which is charged to cost of sales in the income statement.
indd 51 18 08 2016 16:30 52 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1. accounting policies continued trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables and is measured as the difference between carrying value and present value of estimated future cash flows.
Subsequent recoveries of previously impaired trade receivables are recognised as a credit to profit.
research and development Research and development expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets the criteria for capitalisation set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts includes cash at bank and in hand plus short-term deposits less overdrafts.
Short-term deposits have a maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Where the Group has the legally enforceable right, and has settled balances on a net basis at the reporting date, bank overdrafts and cash balances are offset and presented on a net basis within the financial statements.
contingent consideration Where consideration due to vendors is contingent on future events, managements best estimate of the amounts payable is included in consideration when assessing the total acquisition cost and is accrued within trade and other payables until such a time that the amounts are settled.
Where the ultimate amount settled differs from managements initial assessment of the fair value, the difference is recognised as a gain or loss within the income statement.
financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and to fluctuations in interest rates.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments primarily foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain firm commitments and forecasted transactions.
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles in the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of direct issue costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis through the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent they are not settled in the year in which they arise.
trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
indd 52 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 53 financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
investments Investments other than interests in joint ventures are recognised and derecognised on a trade date when a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments are classified as either held-to-maturity, held-for-trading, loans and receivables or available-for-sale.
Held-to-maturity investments and loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost.
Held-for-trading and available-for-sale investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Where securities are held-for-trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the income statement for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new Ordinary Shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such Ordinary Shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity holders.
segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Board.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys Shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
In respect of interim dividends these are recognised once paid.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates retirement benefit schemes in the United Kingdom and for most overseas countries in which it carries out business.
Those in the United Kingdom are defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes: overseas schemes vary in detail depending on local practice.
The UK defined benefit schemes were closed to future accrual on 31 May 2008.
The Group accounts for the defined benefit scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The deficit surplus of the defined benefit pension schemes is recognised in full on the balance sheet and represents the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
A full actuarial valuation is carried out at least every three years and the defined benefit obligation surplus is updated on an annual basis, by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
indd 53 18 08 2016 16:30 54 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1. accounting policies continued Pension charges income recognised in the income statement consists of administration charges of the scheme and a cost based on the interest income on net pension scheme liabilities surpluses calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
Differences between the actual return on assets and interest income, experience gains and losses and changes in actuarial assumptions are included directly in the Groups statement of comprehensive income.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Estimates and accounting judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires management to make assumptions and estimates about future events.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, differ from the actual results.
The assumptions and estimates that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Pensions As disclosed in note 23, the Groups UK defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new members and future accruals.
Yearend recognition of the liabilities under this scheme and the return on assets held to fund these liabilities require a number of significant actuarial assumptions to be made including inflation, discount rate and mortality rates.
Small changes in assumptions can have a significant impact on the expense recorded in the income statement and on the pension liability asset in the balance sheet.
accounting for intangible assets and goodwill The Group records all intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination at fair value.
Intangible assets are deemed to have indefinite lives and as such are not amortised but are subject, as a minimum, to annual tests for impairment.
Determining whether intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount through value-in-use of the cashgenerating units to which the intangible asset has been allocated.
The value-in-use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Details of key estimates, sensitivities and key assumptions are discussed in note 10. current tax The current tax liability asset directly relates to the actual tax payable receivable on the Groups profits and is determined based on tax laws and regulations that differ across the numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Assumptions and judgments are made in applying these laws to the taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax charge for that period.
Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different to the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be charged or credited to the income statement in the period in which it is determined.
trade promotions The Group provides for amounts payable to trade customers for promotional activity.
Where a promotional activity spans across the year end, an accrual is reflected in the Group accounts based on our expectation of customer and consumer uptake during the promotional period and the extent to which temporary promotional activity has occurred.
This requires management to apply judgment and estimates based on historical trends and known activity to date and should actual uptake differ from that estimated this could impact the results of the Group.
indd 54 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 55 2. segmental analysis The Chief Operating Decision-Maker CODM has been identified as the Executive Board which comprises the three Executive Directors.
The CODM reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
The CODM has determined the operating segments based on these reports which include an allocation of central revenue and costs as appropriate.
The CODM considers the business from a geographic perspective, with Africa, Asia and Europe being the operating segments.
The CODM assesses the performance based on operating profit before any exceptional items.
Other information provided, except as noted below, to the CODM is measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
Revenues and operating profit of the Europe and Asia segments arise from the sale of Personal Care, Home Care and Food & Nutrition products.
Revenue and operating profit from the Africa segment arise from the sale of Personal Care, Home Care, Food & Nutrition and Electrical products.
Sales between segments are carried out on an arms length basis.
Business segments 1 2 africa asia europe eliminations total 2016 m m m m m Gross segment revenue 359.2 197.7 408.3 144.0 821.2 Inter-segment revenue 2.0 9.5 132.5 144.0 revenue 357.2 188.2 275.8 821.2 Segmental operating profit before exceptional items and share of results of joint ventures 27.2 16.4 61.7 105.3 Share of results of joint ventures 3.2 3.2 Segmental operating profit before exceptional items 30.4 16.4 61.7 108.5 Exceptional items 7.8 2.6 8.9 19.3 Segmental operating profit 22.6 13.8 52.8 89.2 Finance income 0.6 Finance cost 6.1 Profit before taxation 83.7 depreciation and amortisation 9.3 3.8 8.7 21.8 impairment 0.2 0.2 1 2 Africa Asia Europe Eliminations Total 2015 m m m m m Gross segment revenue 362.3 211.6 428.8 183.6 819.1 Inter-segment revenue 5.5 12.5 165.6 183.6 revenue 356.8 199.1 263.2 819.1 Segmental operating profit before exceptional items and share of results of joint ventures 35.3 16.9 57.9 110.1 Share of results of joint ventures 4.3 4.3 Segmental operating profit before exceptional items 39.6 16.9 57.9 114.4 Exceptional items 6.7 6.6 11.5 24.8 Segmental operating profit 32.9 10.3 46.4 89.6 Finance income 0.8 Finance cost 6.4 Profit before taxation 84.0 Depreciation and amortisation 8.2 3.3 8.3 19.8 Impairment 4.3 4.3 1 Asia segment includes revenue and profit from Australian operations.
2 Europe segmental result includes revenue and profit from US operations that are deemed to be immaterial for separate disclosure.
indd 55 18 08 2016 16:30 56 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2. segmental analysis continued The Groups parent company is domiciled in the UK.
The split of revenue from external customers and non-current assets between the UK, Nigeria and rest of the world Other is: uK nigeria other total 2016 m m m m Revenue 192.5 320.0 308.7 821.2 Goodwill and other intangible assets 258.8 98.3 357.1 Property, plant and equipment 71.0 108.4 47.6 227.0 Pension 51.3 51.3 Financial instruments 20.3 12.1 1.2 33.6 UK Nigeria Other Total 2015 m m m m Revenue 185.7 316.4 317.0 819.1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 258.3 98.3 356.6 Property, plant and equipment 60.7 98.9 49.5 209.1 Pension 43.4 43.4 Financial instruments 23.3 5.7 0.9 29.9 The Group analyses its net revenue by the following categories: 2016 2015 m m Personal Care 413.2 415.9 Home Care 124.5 139.8 Food & Nutrition 165.6 116.2 Electricals 111.7 140.6 Other 6.2 6.6 821.2 819.1 3. exceptional items Year to 31 may 2016 exceptional exceptional items before items after taxation taxation taxation Exceptional items included within operating profit: m m m Group structure and systems project 4.8 0.8 4.0 Supply chain optimisation project with associated restructuring costs 2.1 0.5 1.6 Provision against trade receivable in Europe 5.9 1.5 4.4 Foreign currency devaluation in Nigeria 6.5 2.0 4.5 Finalisation of tax position relating to a prior period disposal 3.3 3.3 Deferred tax benefit of reduction in UK corporation tax rate principally relating to brands 4.2 4.2 19.3 12.3 7.0 Year to 31 May 2015 Exceptional Exceptional items before items after taxation Taxation taxation Exceptional items included within operating profit: m m m Group structure and systems project 2.0 0.4 1.6 five:am acquisition and Australia integration costs 4.3 1.1 3.2 Supply chain optimisation project with associated restructuring costs 6.1 1.4 4.7 Polish Home Care brands divestment and manufacturing site disposal 6.4 3.0 9.4 Provision against Nigerian government receivables 6.0 1.8 4.2 24.8 1.7 23.1 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 56 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 57 explanation of exceptional items Year to may 2016 Group structure and systems project The Group has incurred exceptional costs of 4.8 million relating to the project to realign the non-manufacturing organisation design to create a more effective Group operating model.
These costs mainly consist of restructuring and advisory costs.
Supply chain optimisation project with associated restructuring costs The Group has incurred exceptional costs of 2.1 million relating to further opportunities to reduce the Groups supply chain costbase identified in the prior year.
The costs relate to restructuring costs associated with supply chain optimisation.
Provision against trade receivable in europe A provision of 5.9 million has been made against a trade receivable due from a European customer.
foreign currency devaluation in nigeria During the final quarter of the year to 31 May 2016 the Groups Nigerian subsidiaries accessed the secondary currency market inNigeria in order to settle a number of long outstanding US Dollar denominated trade payables.
This resulted in a transactional foreign exchange loss of 6.5 million which the Directors have deemed to be exceptional due to the nature and magnitude of this effective devaluation.
finalisation of a tax position relating to a prior year disposal During the year the Group recognised a tax credit of 3.3 million following the finalisation of a position relating to a disposal made in a prior year.
Deferred tax benefit of reduction in UK corporation tax rate principally relating to brands The UK corporation tax rate reduces to 18% from 1 April 2020.
As a result of this change, the deferred tax balances relating to UKassets and liabilities have been reduced to take account of the substantively enacted rate change.
The largest single effect of the rate change was in relation to the deferred tax liabilities recognised when the Sanctuary, St. Tropez and Charles Worthington brands were acquired and this is disclosed as an exceptional item due to its size and the fact that it relates to previous acquisitions.
Year to may 2015 Group structure and systems project The Group incurred exceptional costs of 2.0 million relating to the project to realign the non-manufacturing organisation design to create a more effective Group operating model.
These costs mainly consisted of restructuring and advisory costs.
five:am acquisition and integration costs During the prior year the Group acquired the entire share capital of Five AM Life Pty Limited.
The Group incurred acquisition related costs and integration restructuring costs of 4.3 million as a result of integrating the business into existing operations.
Supply chain optimisation project with associated restructuring costs The Group incurred exceptional costs of 6.1 million relating to further opportunities to reduce the Groups supply chain cost base identified in the prior year.
The costs related to restructuring costs associated with supply chain optimisation and impairment costs associated with the write-down of supply chain assets.
Polish home care brands divestment and manufacturing site disposal During the prior year the Group completed the full divestment of its Polish Home Care brands.
Post year end the Group completed the separate sale of the associated manufacturing site.
Inclusive of the 6.4 million are redundancy costs and asset impairment costs.
Provision against nigerian government receivables During the prior year the Group made a full provision of 6.0 million against a Nigerian government receivable.
indd 57 18 08 2016 16:30 58 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Profit for the year analysis by nature Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2016 2015 m m Net foreign exchange losses 5.1 3.8 Research and development costs 3.8 4.3 Amortisation of government grants 0.1 0.1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment note 11 0.2 4.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 21.8 19.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Raw and packaging materials and goods purchased for resale note 14 429.9 401.5 Operating lease rentals 1.2 1.6 Employee costs note 5 86.7 99.9 Auditors remuneration see below 1.0 1.1 A more detailed analysis of Auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2016 2015 m m Fees payable to the Companys Auditors for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements and consolidation 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 Total audit fees 0.7 0.7 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors and its associates for other services: Tax services 0.2 0.2 Transaction related services 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.1 Total fees 1.0 1.1 5. directors and employees employee costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors was as follows: 2016 2015 number Number Production 2,289 2,601 Selling and distribution 2,164 2,317 Administration 545 609 4,998 5,527 The costs incurred in respect of the above were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Wages and salaries 78.1 92.4 Social security costs 5.5 5.6 Other pensions costs 3.1 2.8 Share based payments credit note 28 0.9 86.7 99.9 The other pensions costs consist of: 2016 2015 m m Defined benefit schemes note 23 0.3 0.5 Defined contribution schemes note 23 2.4 2.7 Overseas minor defined benefit schemes and Nigerian gratuity scheme note 23 1.0 0.6 3.1 2.8 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 58 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 59 directors remuneration The costs incurred in respect of the Directors, who are regarded as the key management personnel, were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.6 3.5 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.2 Share based payments 0.3 Total 2.9 3.4 For the year ended 31 May 2016 the highest paid Director received total remuneration of 1.0 million 2015: 1.5 million and pension contributions of 0.1 million 2015: 0.1 million.
Additional details are within the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 10 to 25.
Net finance costs 2016 2015 m m Investment gains 0.1 Interest receivable 0.6 0.7 Total interest income 0.6 0.8 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 6.1 6.4 Net finance costs 5.5 5.6 7. taxation 2016 2015 m m current tax UK corporation tax charge for the year 5.4 4.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 5.9 4.6 Overseas corporation tax charge for the year 10.2 14.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.0 0.8 9.2 13.7 Total current tax charge 15.1 18.3 deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary timing differences 1.8 6.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 1.7 Total deferred tax credit charge 1.1 7.8 Total tax charge 14.0 26.1 UK corporation tax is calculated at 20.00% 2015: 20.83% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Taxation on items taken directly to equity was a charge of 1.5 million 2015: 0.6 million credit and relates to deferred tax on pensions and share option schemes recognised within retained reserves as well as financial derivatives recognised in the hedging reserve.
indd 59 18 08 2016 16:30 60 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7. taxation continued 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 83.7 84.0 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.00% 2015: 20.83% 16.7 17.5 Tax effect of revenue expenses that are not taxable deductible 1.6 2.7 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries in overseas jurisdictions 3.5 3.7 Effect of UK rate change on deferred taxation 4.1 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 1.0 1.0 Overseas withholding tax suffered on dividends 3.5 Derecognition of deferred tax assets not deemed recoverable note 21 0.3 4.2 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.2 0.9 Tax charge for the year 14.0 26.1 Changes to the UK corporation tax rates were announced on 8 July 2015.
These changes were substantively enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2015 on 26 October 2015 and include reductions to the main rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1April 2020.
On 16 March 2016 further changes to the UK corporation tax rate were announced including a further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 17% from 2020, which supersedes the change enacted on 26 October 2015.
However, this further change was not substantively enacted as at 31 May 2016 and has not therefore been reflected in these financial statements.
The reduction in tax rate to 17%, if substantively enacted, would be expected to reduce the UK net deferred tax liability by 2.0 million.
As a result of the planned changes in UK tax rates, all deferred tax assets and liabilities have been measured based on the expected rate to apply at the date the assets will be realised or the liabilities unwound which is circa 18% and has resulted in a credit to the income statement of 4.2 million and to equity of nil.
The Group continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and not yet agreed by tax authorities.
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities.
In assessing these income tax uncertainties, management is required to make judgments in the determination of the unit of account, the evaluation of the circumstances, facts and other relevant information in respect of the tax position taken together with estimates of amounts that may be required to be paid in ultimate settlement with the tax authorities.
As the Group operates in a multinational tax environment, the nature of the uncertain tax positions is often complex and subject to change.
Original estimates are always refined as additional information becomes known.
8. dividends 2016 2015 m m amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the year comprise: Final dividend for the year ended 31 May 2015 of 5.39p 2014: 5.25p per Ordinary Share 22.5 22.0 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 May 2016 of 2.61p 2015: 2.61p per Ordinary Share 10.8 11.0 33.3 33.0 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 May 2016 of 5.50p 2015: 5.39p per Ordinary Share 23.6 23.1 The proposed final dividends for the years ended 31 May 2015 and 31 May 2016 were are subject to approval by Shareholders atthe Annual General Meeting and hence have not been included as liabilities in the financial statements at 31 May 2015 and 31May 2016 respectively.
indd 60 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 61 9. earnings per share Basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
2016 2015 number Number 000 000 Basic weighted average 418,808 420,851 diluted weighted average 418,888 421,282 The difference between the average number of Ordinary Shares and the basic weighted average number of Ordinary Shares represents the shares held by the Employee Share Option Trust, whilst the difference between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares represents the potentially dilutive effect of the Executive Share Option Schemes and the Performance Share Plan.
The average number of shares is reconciled to the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares below: 2016 2015 number Number 000 000 Average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year 428,725 428,725 Less weighted average number of shares held by Employee Share Option Trust 9,917 7,874 Basic weighted average shares in issue during the year 418,808 420,851 Dilutive effect of share incentive plans 80 431 diluted weighted average shares in issue during the year 418,888 421,282 At 31 May 2016, the Employee Share Option Trust held 10,143,164 Ordinary Shares 2015: 9,262,811 Ordinary Shares.
Adjusted earnings per share 2016 2015 Basic earnings per share 16.16p 12.45p Exceptional items 1.06p 5.49p Adjusted basic earnings per share 17.22p 17.94p diluted earnings per share 16.15p 12.44p Exceptional items 1.06p 5.48p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 17.21p 17.92p Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share figures are calculated by dividing adjusted profit after tax for the year by the weighted average number of shares in issue as above.
The adjusted profit after tax for the year is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Profit attributable to ordinary equity Shareholders 67.7 52.4 Exceptional items net of taxation effect 4.4 23.1 Adjusted profit after tax 72.1 75.5 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 61 18 08 2016 16:30 62 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Goodwill and other intangible assets other intangible Goodwill assets total cost m m m At 1 June 2014 45.8 241.9 287.7 Acquired during the year note 29 16.4 53.4 69.8 Currency retranslation 0.9 0.9 At 31 May 2015 62.2 294.4 356.6 Currency retranslation 0.3 0.2 0.5 at 31 may 2016 62.5 294.6 357.1 Goodwill and other intangible assets, which include the Groups acquired brands, all have indefinite useful lives and are subject toannual impairment testing, or more frequent testing if there are indicators of impairment.
The method used is as follows: Intangible assets including goodwill are allocated to appropriate cash-generating units CGUs based on the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows independently in relation to the specific intangible goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined through value-in-use calculations that use cash flow projections from approved budgets and plans over a period of five years which are then extrapolated beyond the five year period based on estimated long-term growth rates.
As the Groups other intangible assets, which represent brand values, and goodwill have all arisen from previous business combinations, CGUs have been identified as the business units acquired, as they represent the smallest group of assets which independently generate cash flows.
This is the case for all intangible assets and goodwill other than the Beauty division and Greece acquired brands where the CGU has been identified as the overall operating unit.
The table below summarises the allocation of goodwill and other intangible assets to each CGU.
other Other intangible intangible Goodwill Goodwill assets assets 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Original Source 9.8 9.8 Beauty division brands 40.4 40.4 188.2 188.2 Raffertys Garden 39.2 39.2 Nutricima 4.6 4.6 15.5 15.5 five:am 11.8 11.8 33.3 33.3 1 Other 5.7 5.4 8.6 8.4 total 62.5 62.2 294.6 294.4 1 Other includes two brands acquired by the Groups Greek business in previous years.
Key assumptions in the budgets and plans include future revenue volume price growth rates, associated future levels of marketing support, cost base of manufacture and supply and directly associated overheads.
These assumptions are based on historical trends and future market expectations specific to each CGU and the markets and geographies in which each CGUoperates.
Other key assumptions applied in determining value-in-use are: Long-term growth rate Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using the estimated long-term growth rate applicable for the geographies in which the CGUs operate: and Discount rate The discount rate is based on a Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC for comparable companies operating in similar markets and geographies as the Group as the base discount rate, adjusted for risks specific to each CGU.
indd 62 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 63 The long-term growth rates and discount rates applied in the value-in-use calculations have been set out below: Long-term growth rate Discount rate Original Source 2.5% 7.5% Beauty division brands 2.5% 7.5% Raffertys Garden 2.5% 7.5% Nutricima 7.0% 16.0% five:am 2.5% 7.5% Greece 1.0% 12.5% The discount rate disclosed above is the pre-tax discount rate applied in the value-in-use calculations.
The same discount rate has been applied to all CGUs other than Nutricima and Greece.
This reflects the similar geographic and product diversification within each CGUs market and the similar risks associated with each CGU.
The discount rates applied in the value-in-use calculations for Nutricima and Greece reflect the specific economic and political risks associated with those CGUs.
Long-term growth rates have been set for each CGU based on estimated long-term growth rates for the territories in which theCGUs operate.
All CGUs, other than Nutricima, operate in geographies which include the UK, Australia, the USA and central Europe.
Long-term growth rates have been set with reference to long-term inflation forecasts which have been deemed an appropriate proxy for long-term growth.
The long-term growth rate for the Nutricima CGU reflects the estimated long-term growth rate in the key geographies of Nigeria and Ghana in which the CGU operates and, consistent with the other CGUs, has been set with reference to long-term inflation forecasts.
Having performed the annual impairment tests, no impairment has been recognised for the year ended 31 May 2016 31 May 2015: nil.
As part of forming this conclusion the Directors performed a sensitivity analysis which focused on the change required in key assumptions, both individually and through dual assumption sensitivities, to give rise to an impairment, with the conclusion that no reasonable possible changes in key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the goodwill and other intangible assets to be less than the carrying value, other than for the Nutricima and Greece CGUs.
For the Nutricima and Greece CGUs the recoverable amount determined by the Directors was 39.1 million and 28.1 million respectively.
The key assumption considered by the Directors, where a reasonably possible change could give rise to impairment, was the forecast cash flow growth in the budgeted period.
Reductions of 5% and 7% for Nutricima and Greece respectively in the annualised forecast cash flow growth in the five year budgeted period would result in the recoverable amount of the CGUs equalling their carrying values.
indd 63 18 08 2016 16:30 64 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
At 31 May 2016, the Group had entered into commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to2.8 million 2015: 1.3 million.
At 31 May 2016, the Groups share in the capital commitments of the joint ventures was nil 2015: nil.
indd 64 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 65 12.
Net investments in joint ventures Net investments in joint ventures include the Groups equity investment in joint ventures which total nil 2015: nil.
As at the start of 2015 the Group had two principal joint ventures being Milk Ventures and PZ Wilmar.
On 31 March 2015 the Group acquired the remaining 50 per cent of the share capital of Milk Ventures and took control and therefore as at 31 May 2015 the results of Milk Ventures were consolidated into the results and financial position of the Group.
The tables below reconcile the movement in the Groups net investment in joint ventures in the year.
2016 2015 m m Equity investment in joint ventures 0.1 Additional equity investment in Milk Ventures 4.3 Share of joint venture net liabilities Disposal of Milk Ventures joint ventures equity investment note 29 4.4 Net equity investment in joint ventures 2016 2015 m m Long-term loans issued to joint ventures 28.6 45.8 New long-term loans issued to joint ventures 21.0 Movement in share of joint venture net assets 3.3 1.5 Disposal of Milk Ventures joint venture loans 39.7 Net investment in joint ventures 31.9 28.6 The movement in share of joint venture net assets of 3.3 million represents 3.2 million of profit after tax and 0.1 million of foreign exchange gain.
The movement in the Groups share of net assets of joint ventures has been summarised in the table below: m carrying value At 1 June 2014 5.4 Exchange differences on translation of overseas net liabilities recognised in equity 2.8 Share of result for the year taken to the income statement 4.3 Disposal of Milk Ventures joint venture share of liabilities 5.1 At 31 May 2015 1.2 Exchange differences on translation of overseas net liabilities recognised in equity 0.1 Share of result for the year taken to the income statement 3.2 at 31 may 2016 4.5 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 65 18 08 2016 16:30 66 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Net investments in joint ventures continued Set out below is the summarised financial information for the consolidated PZ Wilmar joint ventures, including PZ Wilmar Limited, PZ Wilmar Food Limited and Wilmar PZ International Pte Limited, which are accounted for using the equity method.
2016 2015 Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures m m assets non-current assets Assets 60.3 50.5 current assets Cash and cash equivalents 14.5 7.4 Other current assets 48.2 46.4 62.7 53.8 total assets 123.0 104.3 liabilities Non-current liabilities 58.9 52.5 Current liabilities 55.0 49.1 total liabilities 113.9 101.6 net assets liabilities 9.1 2.7 2016 2015 Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures m m Revenues 175.8 224.5 Profit for the year 6.4 6.2 Total comprehensive income 6.4 6.2 The above information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the joint venture and is before Wilmar International Limiteds share of those amounts.
A list of the investments in joint ventures, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest isgiven in note 31.
13. other investments Non-current other investments of 0.3 million 2015: 0.3 million comprise a 28% investment in Norpalm Ghana Limited, a palm oil plantation in Ghana note 31.
The Group does not exercise significant influence over the affairs of this company as it does not have the ability to participate in the financial and operating policies of the entity, and it is therefore not treated as an associated company.
The Directors consider the historical cost of the investment to be representative of its fair value at both 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2015.
14. inventories 2016 2015 m m Raw materials and consumables 56.9 67.4 Work in progress 6.0 4.8 Finished goods and goods for resale 87.6 91.5 150.5 163.7 During the year ended 31 May 2016 1.6 million 2015: 1.7 million was charged to the income statement for slow moving andobsolete inventories.
The cost of the inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 429.9million 2015: 401.5 million.
indd 66 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 67 15. trade and other receivables 2016 2015 receivables due within one year m m Trade receivables 140.6 151.6 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 16.7 7.9 Net trade receivables 123.9 143.7 Amounts owed by joint ventures 14.6 2.7 Other receivables 27.6 25.6 Prepayments and accrued income 8.4 5.8 Currency derivative instrument 0.7 174.5 178.5 The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value due to their short-term nature.
2016 2015 receivables due after more than one year m m Prepayments and accrued income 1.0 0.6 Other receivables 0.4 0.4 1.4 1.0 Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 June 7.9 6.5 1 Provision for receivables impairment 8.3 3.7 Receivables written off during the year 0.2 1.1 Currency translation 0.7 1.2 at 31 may 16.7 7.9 1 Included within Provisions for receivables impairment is 5.9 million 2015: nil in relation to a specific receivable due from a European customer.
This charge has been recognised as an Exceptional item in the Income Statement.
Provisions are estimated by management based on past default experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
The creation and release of provisions for receivables is charged to administrative expenses in the income statement.
Trade receivables consist of a broad cross section of the international customer base for which there is no significant history ofdefault.
The credit risk of customers is assessed at a subsidiary and Group level, taking into account the customers financial positions, past experiences and other relevant factors.
Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.
The credit period given on sales ranges from 20 to 125 days 2015: 19 to 110 days due to the differing nature of trade receivables in the Groups geographical segments.
No other receivables have been deemed to be impaired.
The carrying amount of the Groups net trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2016 2015 m m Sterling 38.0 36.8 US Dollar 10.4 10.7 Nigerian Naira 26.9 36.6 Euro 9.4 18.1 Polish Zloty 2.0 2.1 Indonesian Rupiah 13.8 11.9 Ghana Cedi 5.1 5.9 Australian Dollar 12.6 17.2 Other currencies 5.7 4.4 123.9 143.7 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 67 18 08 2016 16:30 68 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15. trade and other receivables continued The following table shows the age of trade receivables at the reporting date for which no allowance for impairment of trade receivables has been recognised: 2016 2015 m m Not past due 103.9 118.1 Past due 0-90 days 17.0 23.1 Past due 90-180 days 2.0 1.9 Past due 180 days 1.0 0.6 123.9 143.7 16. current asset investments 2016 2015 m m Unlisted 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 17. cash and cash equivalents Restated 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 160.4 100.5 Short-term deposits 14.7 10.2 cash and short-term deposits 175.1 110.7 Less: bank overdrafts included within borrowings note 18 70.5 62.9 cash and cash equivalents 104.6 47.8 The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents during the year ended 31 May 2016 was 3.0% 2015: 1.4%.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial risk management a financial instrument fair value estimation The Group holds a number of financial instruments that are held at fair value within the financial statements.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments utilised by the Group during the years ended 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2015, together with information regarding the methods and assumptions used to calculate fair values, can be summarised as follows: current and non-current investments In accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, unlisted investments are held in the Groups balance sheet at cost because their fair value cannot be measured reliably due to the lack of quoted market prices.
current assets and liabilities Financial instruments included within current assets and liabilities excluding cash and borrowings are generally short-term in nature and accordingly their fair values approximate to their book values.
Borrowings and cash The carrying values of cash and short-term borrowings approximate to their fair values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
indd 68 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 69 Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
In deriving the fair value, the derivative financial instruments are classified as level 1, level 2 or level 3 dependant on the valuation method applied in determining their fair value.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or 2 indirectly that is, derived from prices 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs The financial instruments held at fair value by the Group relate to foreign currency forward contracts used as derivatives for hedging and the contingent consideration which arose on the acquisition of five:am in the prior year.
For both the year ended 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2015, the assets and liabilities arising from foreign currency contracts have been classified as level 2.
The contingent consideration that arose on the acquisition of five:am in the prior year was classified as level 3.
There have been no transfers between either level 1 and 2 or level 2 and 3 in any period.
b financial liabilities and assets Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying values and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2015.
None of the financial assets and liabilities have been reclassified during the year.
Restated 2016 2015 carrying Carrying amount and amount and fair value fair value m m loans and receivables Cash and short-term deposits 175.1 110.7 Trade and other receivables 165.9 172.0 Financial derivative assets 0.7 financial liabilities Trade and other payables 188.0 196.7 Bank overdrafts 70.5 62.9 Bank loans 252.0 205.5 Financial derivative liabilities 0.2 0.4 Contingent consideration liability 3.9 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 69 18 08 2016 16:30 70 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial risk management continued financial liabilities Restated 2016 2015 m m Overdrafts due within one year 70.5 62.9 Bank loans due within one year 252.0 205.5 322.5 268.4 Loans due within one year includes the Groups main borrowing facility which is provided by a syndicate of three UK banks in theform of a 240 million committed multi-currency revolving credit facility with a final termination date of February 2020.
In addition, the Group has a further 50 million of bilateral facilities which are utilised for general working capital and trade finance purposes and of which 12 million has been utilised at 31 May 2016 2015: nil.
Overdrafts do not form part of the Groups main borrowing facilities and arise as part of the Groups composite banking arrangement with Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the terms of this arrangement cash and overdraft balances recognised by the GroupsUK operations are considered as one cash pool with the net position being monitored by the Directors and by Barclays.
At31 May 2016 these overdraft balances have been presented gross with a corresponding increase in cash at bank and in hand.
Comparatives at 31 May 2015 have been restated accordingly please also refer to note 1.
At 31 May 2016, the available Group-wide undrawn facilities totalled 132.1 million 2015: 128.2 million.
The terms of the Groups main facility reflect current market commercial terms and pricing for a loan of this nature for a credit score relating to PZ Cussons standing.
Drawn amounts under the facility attract a variable margin over LIBOR based on the Groups Net Debt EBITDA ratio.
Undrawn amounts attract a commitment fee.
The facility is unsecured but the lenders benefit from a guarantee from the principal operating subsidiaries of the Group.
2016 Restated 2015 2016 interest rate 2015 Interest rate m % m % Borrowing 322.5 1.4 268.4 2.0 c Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments comprise all trading and hedging derivatives which include the Groups forward foreign exchange contracts.
These are fair valued as level 2 derivative financial instruments.
The forward foreign exchange contracts have been fair valued using exchange rates that are quoted in an active market.
The effects of discounting are generally insignificant for level 2 derivatives.
The gross valuation of the forward foreign exchange contracts at year end is: 2016 2015 m m assets Foreign currency forward contracts 0.7 liabilities Foreign currency forward contracts 0.2 0.4 The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The net notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 May 2016 was 44.0 million 2015: 52.1 million.
The hedged highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates duringthe next 12 months.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts asof 31 May 2016 are recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement.
This is generally within 12 months from the balance sheet date unless the gain or loss is included inthe initial amount recognised for the purchase of fixed assets, in which case recognition is over the lifetime of the asset.
indd 70 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 71 d contingent consideration Contingent consideration arose on the acquisition of five:am in the prior year and was payable subject to performance of the business in the current year.
This was fair valued as a level 3 financial instrument.
2016 2015 m m Opening balance 3.9 Arising on acquisitions 3.9 Paid in year 3.9 Closing balance 3.9 e financial risk management The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in exchange rates, credit risk, liquidity and interest rates.
The Groups treasury function reports to the Board at least annually with reference to the application of the Group treasury policy.
The policy addresses issues of liquidity, funding and investment as well as interest rate, currency and commodity risks.
The Groups risk management policies are designed to identify and analyse these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor the risks and limits continually by means of reliable and up-to-date systems.
The Group modifies and enhances its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets and products.
The Audit and Risk Committee, under authority delegated by the Board, formulates the high level Group risk management policy, monitors risk and receives reports that allow it to review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management policies.
i credit risk management Credit risk is the risk that financial loss arises from the failure of a customer or counterparty to meet its obligations under a contract.
The Group has dedicated standards, policies and procedures to control and monitor all such risks.
Although the Group is potentially exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties, such credit risk is controlled through credit rating and equity price reviews of the counterparties and by limiting the total amount of exposure to any one party.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The Group does not believe it is exposed to any material concentrations of credit risk.
As an example the Groups borrowings are arranged with a syndicate of major banks and are committed until 2020.
An analysis of the international long-term credit ratings of counterparties where cash and cash equivalents including overdrafts are held is as follows: 2016 2015 m m AA 17.7 20.7 A 11.4 13.8 B 75.5 11.9 C 1.4 total 104.6 47.8 ii liquidity management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group maintains astrong liquidity position and manages the liquidity profile of its assets, liabilities and commitments so that cash flows are appropriately balanced and all funding obligations are met when due.
iii market risk management Market risk is the risk that movements in market rates, including foreign exchange rates, cash flow, interest rates and commodity prices will reduce the Groups income.
The management of market risk is undertaken by the operating unit Finance Directors under delegated authority using risk limits approved by the Board.
indd 71 18 08 2016 16:30 72 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial risk management continued iv foreign exchange risk management The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Subsidiary undertakings must ensure that all transactional exposures arising from commitments in a currency other than their functional currency are identified and monitored.
The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to manage these exposures.
The below sensitivity analysis was conducted by modelling a 10% weakening based on average annual fluctuations of Sterling against the following currencies at 31 May which would have increased equity and increased decreased profit loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
2016 2015 income Income equity statement Equity statement m m m m Nigerian Naira 39.6 1.3 36.6 2.4 Euro 3.7 0.1 4.0 0.1 Indonesian Rupiah 3.0 0.2 2.8 0.3 Australian Dollar 1.5 0.6 1.6 0.2 Polish Zloty 1.2 0.1 1.2 1.2 A 10% strengthening of Sterling against the above currencies would have had the equal and opposite effect on equity and profit loss by the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
v Price risk management Due to the nature of the business, the Group is exposed to commodity price risk.
The Group does take measures to protect against short-term impacts of these fluctuations: however, failure to recover higher costs could have a negative impact on profits.
vi Cash flow and interest rate risk The Groups variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
vii capital risk management The Group considers capital to be net debt funds plus total equity.
Net debt funds is defined as cash, short-term deposits and current asset investments less borrowings.
Total equity includes share capital, reserves and retained earnings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Group had net debt positions as at 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2015 respectively, as shown below: Restated 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand see note 17 160.4 100.5 Short-term deposits see note 17 14.7 10.2 Bank overdrafts 70.5 62.9 Cash and short-term deposits 104.6 47.8 Current asset investments 0.3 0.3 Loans due within one year 252.0 205.5 Net debt 147.1 157.4 The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Groups capital is not restricted.
indd 72 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 73 19. trade and other payables 2016 2015 m m Trade payables 97.9 104.3 Other taxation and social security 10.6 8.7 Other payables 5.1 7.5 Financial derivative liabilities note 18 0.2 0.4 Accruals and deferred income 84.9 84.9 198.7 205.8 Trade and other payables comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value due to their short-term nature.
20. other non-current liabilities 2016 2015 m m Other payables 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 21. deferred tax Revaluation Tax losses Property, Retirement of property, and other Share plant and benefit plant and timing Business based equipment obligations equipment differences combinations payments Total m m m m m m m At 1 June 2014 11.9 2.5 10.2 10.9 28.8 0.7 41.8 Charge credit to income 1.6 0.5 6.5 0.2 7.8 Credit charge to equity 1.3 0.5 0.2 0.6 Acquisition 2.1 4.6 2.5 Other 1.8 1.8 Currency translation 1.4 1.7 1.2 1.9 At 31 May 2015 10.5 2.8 8.0 6.6 33.4 0.3 47.8 Charge credit to income 0.5 2.1 1.4 2.2 2.9 1.1 Credit charge to equity 1.2 0.3 1.5 Other 1.2 1.2 at 31 may 2016 11.0 6.1 8.2 7.6 30.5 48.2 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax assets 7.8 7.1 Deferred tax liabilities 56.0 54.9 48.2 47.8 Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses brought forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had no recognised tax losses 2015: 0.6 million.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are not significant.
indd 73 18 08 2016 16:30 74 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Provisions Restructuring and warranty provisions m At 1 June 2014 13.1 Charged to the income statement 11.0 Currency retranslation 0.4 Used during year 10.3 At 31 May 2015 13.4 Charged to the income statement 7.4 Currency retranslation 0.1 Used during year 16.0 at 31 may 2016 4.7 Provisions as at 31 May 2016 relate to restructuring costs in connection with the supply chain optimisation project and the Group structure and systems project 3.5 million and warranty costs in relation to the Africa Electricals division 2016: 1.2 million, 2015: 1.2 million.
The majority of provisions are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months.
Retirement benefits The Group operates retirement benefit schemes for most of its UK and overseas subsidiaries.
The defined benefit scheme associated obligations have all been measured in accordance with IAS 19 revised.
summary of Group retirement schemes UK retirement benefits The UK operates a defined contribution scheme for current employees.
The UKs defined benefit schemes were closed to future accrual on 31 May 2008.
The following four defined benefit schemes are the UKs main schemes: Main staff plan for all historically eligible UK based staff, excluding PZ Cussons Plc Executive Directors Directors plan for PZ Cussons Plc Executive Directors Expatriate plan for all eligible expatriate staff based outside the UK Unfunded plan unfunded unapproved retirement scheme Current and past employees within these schemes are provided with defined benefits based on service and final salary.
The assets of the schemes are administered by trustees and are held in trust funds independent of the Group.
In relation to the unfunded plan, the Group made payments during the year to former Directors of 166,632 2015: 158,465.
Overseas retirement benefits Outside of the UK the Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
Included within Overseas retirement benefits and similar obligations below are the unfunded retirement benefit obligations relating to certain of the Groups overseas subsidiaries and other employee related provisions for long service and sick leave.
Summary of Group defined benefit scheme associated obligations 2016 2015 surplus Deficit total Surplus Deficit Total m m m m m m Expatriate plan 46.7 46.7 42.2 42.2 Directors plan 4.6 4.6 1.2 1.2 Main staff plan 4.0 4.0 14.1 14.1 Unfunded plan 4.5 4.5 5.4 5.4 Other overseas units 8.5 8.5 7.6 7.6 51.3 17.0 34.3 43.4 27.1 16.3 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 74 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 75 The movements in the year are as follows: Overseas UK retirement retirement benefits benefits and similar and similar obligations obligations Total m m m At 1 June 2014 7.0 22.1 15.1 Currency retranslation 0.3 0.3 Interest expense income 0.6 0.5 0.1 Contributions paid 7.7 7.7 Utilised in the year Remeasurement losses 0.3 6.4 6.7 At 31 May 2015 7.6 23.9 16.3 Currency retranslation 0.2 0.2 Interest expense income 1.0 0.3 0.7 Contributions paid 9.2 9.2 Utilised in the year 0.3 0.3 Remeasurement gains 9.4 9.4 at 31 may 2016 8.5 42.8 34.3 Overseas retirement benefits and similar obligations measurement and assumptions used The most significant overseas scheme as at 31 May 2016 is the Indonesian post-retirement benefit scheme.
The obligations have been measured in accordance with IAS 19 revised and a discount rate of 8.0% 2015: 8.0% and salary inflation rate of 8.0% 2015: 8.0% have been used.
The scheme is unfunded and provision for future obligations included in the above table is 7.4 million 2015: 6.2 million.
UK retirement benefits and similar obligations measurement and assumptions used The last triennial actuarial valuations of the schemes administered in the UK were performed by independent professional actuaries at 1 June 2013 using the projected unit method of valuation.
For the purposes of IAS 19 revised the actuarial valuation as at 1 June 2013, which was carried out by a qualified independent actuary, has been updated on an approximate basis to 31 May 2016.
There have been no changes in the valuation methodology adopted for this years disclosures compared to the previous years disclosures.
The key financial assumptions used by the actuary were as follows: 2016 2015 Rate of increase in retirement benefits in payment 2.75% 3.00% Discount rate 3.30% 3.45% Inflation assumption 2.75% 3.05% The mortality assumptions used were as follows: 2016 2015 Years Years Weighted average life expectancy on post-retirement mortality table used to determine benefit obligations Member age 65 current life expectancy 23.6 22.6 Member age 40 life expectancy at age 65 25.7 25.3 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 75 18 08 2016 16:30 76 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Retirement benefits continued The assets in the schemes and the expected rates of return were: 2016 2015 2014 m m m Equities 77.6 92.6 108.2 Bonds 250.9 237.3 186.2 Property 5.6 5.7 4.5 Cash and other 10.5 10.3 6.3 Total fair value of scheme assets 344.6 345.9 305.2 Present value of scheme liabilities 301.8 322.0 283.1 Surplus in the schemes 42.8 23.9 22.1 Related deferred tax liability 7.7 4.8 4.4 Net retirement benefit surplus 35.1 19.1 17.7 Equities and bond assets are quoted with all other assets being unquoted.
The net retirement benefit income before taxation recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit schemes is summarised as follows: 2016 2015 m m Interest on net defined benefit surplus 1.0 1.1 Administration expenses paid by the scheme 0.7 0.6 Net retirement benefit income before taxation 0.3 0.5 All above amounts are recognised in the Groups income statement in arriving at operating profit.
The reconciliation of the opening and closing balance sheet position is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Surplus at beginning of year 23.9 22.1 Net interest income net defined benefit obligation 1.0 1.1 Administration expenses paid by the scheme 0.7 0.6 Employer contributions 9.2 7.7 Remeasurement gain due to scheme experience 7.2 0.2 Remeasurement gain due to changes in demographic assumptions 3.0 Remeasurement gain loss due to changes in financial assumptions 5.7 37.4 Return of plan assets excluding interest income 6.5 30.8 net surplus at end of year 42.8 23.9 analysed between: Retirement benefit surplus 51.3 43.4 Retirement benefit obligation 8.5 19.5 42.8 23.9 Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
At 31 May 2016, cumulative pre-tax remeasurement losses of 36.0 million 2015: 45.4 million were recorded directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
indd 76 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 77 Movements in the fair value of plan assets were as follows: assets Assets 2016 2015 m m 1 June 345.9 305.2 Interest income 11.8 13.2 Return of plan assets excluding interest income 6.5 30.8 Employer contribution 9.2 7.7 Administrative expenses 0.7 0.6 Benefits paid 15.1 10.4 31 May 344.6 345.9 Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: obligations Obligations 2016 2015 m m 1 June 322.0 283.1 Interest expense 10.9 12.1 Remeasurement gain due to scheme experience 7.2 0.2 Remeasurement gain due to changes in demographic assumptions 3.0 Remeasurement gain loss due to changes in financial assumptions 5.7 37.4 Benefits paid 15.2 10.4 31 May 301.8 322.0 Plans that are wholly or partly funded 297.3 316.6 Plans that are wholly unfunded 4.5 5.4 301.8 322.0 The sensitivities on the key actuarial assumptions as at the end of the period were: Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation Discount rate Decrease of 0.25% Increase of 4.2% Rate of inflation Increase of 0.25% Increase of 3.9% Rate of mortality Increase in life expectancy of 1 year Increase of 3.0% The sensitivities shown above are approximate.
Each sensitivity considers each change in isolation and is calculated using the same methodology as used for the calculation of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the period.
The inflation sensitivity includes the impact of changes to the assumptions for the revaluation and pension increases.
In practice it is unlikely that the changes would occur in isolation.
During the year ending 31 May 2017 the Group expects to make cash contributions of 6.0 million 2016: 7.7 million to funded defined benefit plans.
A further 2.1 million 2016: 1.6 million is expected to be contributed to defined contribution plans.
The amount recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement in relation to defined contribution schemes is 2.4million 2015: 2.7 million.
indd 77 18 08 2016 16:30 78 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24. share capital 2016 2015 number amount Number Amount 000 m 000 m allotted, issued and fully paid: Ordinary Shares of 1p each 428,725 4.3 428,725 4.3 total called up share capital 428,725 4.3 428,725 4.3 25. employee share option trust Included within retained earnings is the Employee Share Option Trust ESOT.
The ESOT purchases shares to fund the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Performance Share Plan, details of which are provided in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The market value of these shares as at 31 May 2016 was 35.5 million 2015:33.2 million.
During the year the ESOT purchased 1,066,252 shares of the Company at a cost of 4.2 million 2015: 2,053,826 at a cost of 8.5 million representing 0.25% of issued share capital.
The trust has waived any entitlement to dividends inrespect of all the shares it holds.
The cost of buying own shares is charged to the profit and loss reserve.
Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operating activities 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 83.7 84.0 Adjustment for net finance costs 5.5 5.6 Operating profit 89.2 89.6 Depreciation 21.8 19.8 Impairment loss on tangible fixed assets 0.2 4.3 Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets 0.3 0.3 Difference between pension charge and cash contributions 9.0 7.6 Share of results from joint ventures 3.2 4.3 Share based payments credit 0.9 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 99.3 101.2 Movements in working capital: Inventories 19.4 3.6 Trade and other receivables 9.2 15.6 Trade and other payables 10.5 19.4 Provisions 11.0 1.0 cash generated from operating activities 106.4 61.6 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 78 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 79 27. operating lease commitments At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases over certain of its properties, which fall due as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 1.6 2.6 In the second to fifth years inclusive 4.0 8.0 Over five years 0.7 0.7 The Group leases a number of premises.
These are subject to review on dates ranging from 2016 to 2023.
28. share based payments Share based payments are made to senior executives and other selected key individuals throughout the organisation.
These are the Performance Share Plan and the Executive Share Option Scheme.
The total credit in the year relating to the two schemes was nil 2015: credit 0.9 million.
Performance share Plan The Group operates a Performance Share Plan PSP for main Board Executive Directors and certain key senior executives.
The extent to which such awards vest will depend upon the Groups performance over the three year period following the award date.
The Groups performance is measured by reference to the growth of adjusted earnings per share over the retail price index over a single three year period.
The fair value of the award is taken as the share price at the date of grant.
In the current year, 1,204,962 awards were made under the PSP scheme 2015: total awards of 1,221,052.
The number of shares exercised in the year was 296,985 2015: 19,062 at a market value of 1,018,988 2015: 59,169 based on the market price at the date of exercise.
In addition the number of lapsed share options totalled 1,034,616 2015: 1,255,348.
The number of awards outstanding but not yet exercisable is 2,839,432 at 31 May 2016 2015: 2,966,071.
The total credit included in operating profit in relation to these awards was nil 2015: credit 0.9 million.
executive share option scheme Prior to the adoption by the Company of the Performance Share Plan in 2008, Executive Directors and certain other senior executives were generally eligible for the grant of options under the PZ Cussons Plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
Under this scheme options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Companys shares on the dealing day before the option is granted.
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group for any reason outside of the scheme rules.
Options under the scheme are exercisable in a period beginning no earlier than three years from the date of grant and are subject to performance conditions.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the date of grant is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model according to the relevant measures of performance.
The model includes adjustments, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions, behavioural considerations and expected dividend payments.
The option life is derived by the models based on these assumptions and other assumptions identified below.
The total expense included within operating profit in respect of the share option scheme was nil 2015: nil.
No options have been granted during the current or previous year under the Executive Share Option Scheme and it is not expected that any further awards will be made.
indd 79 18 08 2016 16:30 80 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28. share based payments continued The movement in total outstanding options in respect of the Executive Share Option Scheme is provided below: Weighted average exercise price Number of share options Outstanding at 31 May 2014 474,497 1.6 Exercisable at 31 May 2014 474,497 1.6 Lapsed Exercised 273,259 1.6 Outstanding at 31 May 2015 201,238 1.6 Exercisable at 31 May 2015 201,238 1.6 Lapsed Exercised 135,469 1.6 outstanding at 31 may 2016 65,769 1.7 exercisable at 31 may 2016 65,769 1.7 Price share Weighted average exercise price Range of prices: 31 may 2016 1.3-1.7 1.6 31 May 2015 0.7-1.7 1.6 Weighted average Number of share options contract term years Weighted average contractual remaining life: 31 may 2016 65,769 1.0 31 May 2015 201,238 1.0 There were no options outstanding at 31 May 2016 or 31 May 2015 that are outside of the scope of IFRS 2 Share based payments.
29. acquisitions acquisition of 0.23% of share capital of PZ cussons nigeria Plc cost of acquisitions m 0.23% of share capital of PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc 0.8 Throughout the year to 31 May 2016, the Group has acquired additional share capital of its existing subsidiary PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc, increasing the Groups stake from 72.8% to 73.03%.
The consideration for these additional shares was 0.8 million, resulting in the acquisition of a non-controlling interest of 0.3 million and an amount debited to retained earnings through the consolidated statement of changes in equity of 0.5 million.
indd 80 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 81 30. related party transactions PZ Wilmar limited and PZ Wilmar food limited The following related party transactions were entered into by subsidiary companies during the year under the terms of a joint venture agreement with Singapore based Wilmar International Limited: At 31 May 2016 the outstanding balance receivable from PZ Wilmar Limited was 21.0 million 2015: 21.0 million and from PZWilmar Food Limited was 6.4 million 2015: 6.4 million.
These receivables principally relate to long-term loan investments that have been made by both joint venture partners.
The Group sourced and then sold certain raw materials to PZ Wilmar Limited to the value of 0.1 million 2015: 2.4 million.
At 31 May 2016 the amount outstanding from PZ Wilmar Limited was 2.0 million 2015: 0.8 million and from PZ Wilmar Food Limited was nil 2015: nil.
The amount outstanding from the Group to PZ Wilmar Limited was nil 2015: nil and from PZWilmar Food Limited at 31 May 2016 was nil 2015: nil.
All trading balances will be settled in cash.
There were no provisions for doubtful related party receivables at 31 May 2016 2015: nil and no charges to the income statement in respect of doubtful related party receivables 2015: nil.
Wilmar PZ international Pte limited The following related party transactions were entered into by subsidiary companies during the year under the terms of a joint venture agreement with Singapore based Wilmar International Limited: At 31 May 2016 the amount outstanding from Wilmar PZ International Pte Limited to the Group was 2.4 million 2015: 1.9 million.
The amount outstanding from the Group at 31 May 2016 was nil 2015: nil.
Transactions between the Group and Wilmar PZ International Pte Limited relate to salary recharges of 0.5 million 2015: 0.9 million of which 0.5 million 2015: 0.8 million remains outstanding at year end.
indd 81 18 08 2016 16:30 82 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and non-current asset investments Details of the Companys subsidiaries at 31 May 2016 are as follows: Parent Proportion Companys of voting Incorporated Company Operation in: interest interest Five AM Life Pty Limited Dormant Australia 100% 100% PZ Cussons Holdings Pty Limited Holding company Australia 100% 100% PZ Cussons Australia Pty Limited Distribution Australia 100% 100% PZ Cussons Beauty Australia Holdings Pty Limited Holding company Australia 100% 100% PZ Cussons Beauty Australia Pty Limited Holding company Australia 100% 100% Raffertys Garden Pty Limited Dormant Australia 100% 100% United Laboratories Limited Dormant Australia 100% 100% Beauty Source Limited Dormant England 100% 100% Bronson UK Limited Provision of services to Group companies England 50% 50% Bronson Holdings Limited Holding company England 100% 100% Charles Worthington Hair Accessories Limited Dormant England 100% 100% Harefield Industrial Consultants & Contractors Limited Dormant England 100% 100% Milk Ventures UK Limited Holding company England 100% 100% Parnon Limited Dormant England 100% 100% PZ Cussons Holdings Limited Holding company England 100% 100% PZ Cussons International Finance Limited Provision of services to Group companies England 100% 100% PZ Cussons International Limited Provision of services to Group companies England 100% 100% PZ Cussons UK Limited Manufacturing England 100% 100% PZ Cussons Beauty LLP Holding partnership England 100% 100% Robert Laboratories Limited Dormant England 100% 100% Seven Scent Limited Manufacturing England 100% 100% St. Tropez Acquisition Co. Limited Dormant England 100% 100% St. Tropez Holdings Limited Holding company England 100% 100% The Sanctuary at Covent Garden Limited Dormant England 100% 100% Thermocool Engineering Company Limited Dormant England 100% 100% PZ Cussons Ghana Limited Distribution Ghana 90% 90% Minerva SA Manufacturing Greece 100% 100% Parnon Hong Kong Limited Provision of services to Group companies Hong Kong 100% 100% PZ Cussons Hong Kong Limited Dormant Hong Kong 100% 100% PZ Cussons India PVT Limited Distribution India 100% 100% PT PZ Cussons Indonesia Manufacturing Indonesia 100% 100% Cussons and Company Limited Dormant Kenya 100% 100% PZ Cussons East Africa Limited Manufacturing Kenya 100% 100% PZ Cussons New Zealand Limited Distribution New Zealand 100% 100% Raffertys Garden New Zealand Pty Limited Dormant New Zealand 100% 100% Food For Life International Limited Distribution Nigeria 100% 100% Harefield Industrial Nigeria Limited Distribution Nigeria 100% 100% HPZ Limited Manufacturing Nigeria 55% 55% Nutricima Limited Manufacturing Nigeria 100% 100% PZ Coolworld Limited Retail Nigeria 100% 100% PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc Manufacturing Nigeria 73% 73% PZ Cussons Polska SA Distribution Poland 100% 100% Food For Life Singapore Pte Limited Holding company Singapore 100% 100% PZ Cussons Singapore Private Limited Provision of services to Group companies Singapore 100% 100% Guardian Holdings Company Limited Holding company Thailand 49% 49% PZ Cussons Thailand Limited Manufacturing Thailand 100% 100% PZ Cussons Middle East and South Asia FZE Distribution UAE 100% 100% St. Tropez Inc Distribution USA 100% 100% HPZ Limited is 74.99% owned by PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc and is therefore consolidated.
Shares held by the Parent Company.
indd 82 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 83 Parent Companys Joint venture companies Operation Incorporated in: interest PZ Wilmar Food Limited Manufacturing Nigeria 51% PZ Wilmar Limited Manufacturing Nigeria 49% Wilmar PZ International Pte Limited Provision of services to Joint Venture companies Singapore 50% Parent Companys Other investments Operation Incorporated in: interest Norpalm Ghana Limited Manufacturing Ghana 28% Shares held by a subsidiary.
All subsidiary entities have a year end of 31 May.
No subsidiaries of the Group have taken the exemption from audit under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.
