Other information Shareholder information 2016 17 financial calendar Shareholder information A wide range of information for shareholders and investors 9 September 2016 Record date for 2015 16 final dividend is available in the Investors area of the Rank Group website: 14 October 2016 Annual general meeting and interim www.
management statement Frequently asked questions 20 October 2016 Payment date for 2015 16 final We have a shareholder frequently asked questions section on dividend our website which provides answers to many questions that 26 January 2017 Interim results announcement shareholders have: http: www.
com en investors 18 May 2017 Interim management statement shareholder-centre faqs.
Registrar Capital gains tax All administrative enquiries relating to shares should, in For the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax on the first instance, be directed to the Companys registrar a disposal of ordinary shares in the Company held since quoting reference number 1235 and clearly state the registered 31March 1982 including shares held in the predecessor shareholders name and address.
Please write to The Rank Group company, The Rank Organisation Plc, the price of the Plc Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Companys ordinary shares at that date was 190.0 pence per Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: from the UK 0371 384 share.
This price should be adjusted for the effects of the rights 2098 and from outside the UK 44 121 415 7047. issue in January 1990, the enhanced share alternative in July 1993, the sub-division and consolidation of shares in March There is a text phone available on 0371 384 2255 for 1994, the enhanced scrip dividend in March 1998, and the 18 shareholders with hearingdifficulties.
for 25sub-division and share consolidation aligned with the Shareview 65.0 pence special dividend payment which took place in The Shareview portfolio service from the Companys registrar March 2007.
More information regarding these adjustments gives shareholders more control of their Rank shares and other is available on the www.
investmentsincluding: Shareholder security direct access to data held for them on the share register We are aware that some of our shareholders have received including recent share movements and dividenddetails: unsolicited telephone calls concerning their Rank shares.
These a recent valuation of their portfolio: and communications tend to be from overseas-based brokers who offer a premium price for your Rank shares but ask you to make a range of information and practical help for an upfront payment, typically in the form of an insurance shareholders including how they can elect to bond.
We recommend that before paying any moneyyou: receive .
obtain the name of the person and firm contactingyou: It is easy and free to set up a portfolio shareholders will just need the shareholder reference printed on their proxy form or check the FCA register at www.
uk register to ensure dividend stationery.
Please visit the following website for more they areauthorised: details: www.
use the details on the FCA Register to contact thefirm: Payment of dividends call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are The Company is no longer operating a dividend re-investment no contact details on the FCA Register or you are told they are plan.
Shareholders may find it more convenient to make out of date: and arrangements to have dividends paid directly to their bank search the FCAs list of unauthorised firms and individuals account.
The advantages of this are that the dividend is credited to avoid doing business with: www.
uk consumers to a shareholders bank account on the payment date, there is protect-yourself unauthorised-firms unauthorised-firmsno need to present cheques for payment and there is no risk of to-avoid.
cheques being lost in thepost.
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or To set up a dividend mandate or to change an existing mandate other investments, you will not have access to the Financial please contact Equiniti Limited, our registrar, whose contact Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation details are above.
Alternatively, shareholders who use Equinitis Scheme FSCS if things gowrong.
Shareview can log on to www.
co. uk and follow the Below, please find the link to the FCAs website which gives onlineinstructions.
information on scams and swindles which shareholders may find helpful: www.
uk consumers scams Further information on fraud can be found at www.
uk Action Frauds helpline is 0300 1232040.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 138 We recommend that you report any attempted share frauds to the authorities since providing information with regard to how the fraudsters have contacted and dealt with you will assist the authorities in understanding the fraudsters way of operating so as to enable them to disrupt and prevent these activities and prosecutethem.
ShareGift Shareholders with a very small number of shares, the value of which may make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr MackintoshFoundation.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org or by writingto: ShareGift 17 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AH Tel: 020 7930 3737 For any other information please contact the following at our registeredoffice: Frances Bingham, Company secretary Sarah Powell, Director of Treasury and Investor Relations Registered office The Rank Group Plc, Statesman House, Stafferton Way, Maidenhead SL6 1AY Tel: 01628 504 000 The Rank Group Plc Registered in England and Wales N 03140769 www.
