Operating responsibly Our commitment to operating responsibly For more information visit Our purpose is to bring excitement and keepitfun.
com entertainment to the customers and communities we serve.
We understand our responsibility to all in our communities.
We aim to act with the highest integrity and honesty in everything we do.
Our areas of focus: Our customers Our employees Our communities Responsible gambling Great teamwork is key to our success.
We are very proud that our businesses are We pull together across brands, channels at the heart of their local communities.
Its important for our colleagues and and locations to perform at our very best.
We want to help to look after those customers to be honest and trusting of If we look after our employees then they communities, not only because this is each other.
Above all, we want people in turn will do everything in their power where our customers and employees live to have fun and to play within their to deliver special service to our customers and work, but because we genuinely means.
If we feel anyone is developing a every time.
believe it is the right thing to do.
gambling problem, we must make sure we can support them appropriately.
messaging, along with the display of the Provide safeguards and intervene Our customers Keep it Fun logo and website address on where problems arise Responsible gambling all casino gaming tables.
Support treatment and counselling Rank is very much aware that, whilst During the year the Group considered the principal purpose of our businesses is and discussed the Responsible Gambling Our employees to provide an exciting and entertaining Strategy Boards evaluation protocol.
experience for our customers, there Rank is made up of over 10,700 It was agreed that when Rank looked is also a need to protect those few enthusiastic and committed individuals, at any new initiative with responsible customers who may be most at risk who have a desire to deliver the best gambling at the heart of it, it would use of gambling-related harm.
With that experience for our customers.
the protocols discipline and structure in mind, Rank continues to develop and ensure that the evaluation of any How it affects our its pioneering responsible gambling such new initiative was in line with performance and position policy under the award-winning the protocols principles.
Our people bring our brands to life Keep it Fun banner.
This is designed by striving to deliver a market-leading Our policies and actions to make information about playing gaming experience.
Ranks people are At Rank, our approach is to seek a responsibly easily accessible to its greatest asset and are the main reason more sophisticated understanding of the all customers, not just those with why people choose our brands and stay problem and to use that understanding the potential to develop problems.
Innovative means of communicating We understand that the support and information in accessible ways include Understand through research the use of film clips available on our development of our staff is critical if and engagement dedicated www.
com we are to achieve our strategic goals.
Influence customer behaviour website and sent out as social media through communication www.
com 37 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued Our policies and actions Training During 2015 16, we invested 788,000 in delivering 457,000 hours of training to our employees, helping them to develop the skills required to do their jobs.
Career development Our career development programme is designed to enable our employees to progress within Rank, offering mobility between brand and Group teams, and the opportunity to work within different areas of operation and to participate in Helping our customers keep it fun cross-Group projects.
During 2015 16, nearly all team All employees should be safe in the If employees are unsure about any aspect members participated in career expectation that they will remain healthy of their work, feel that the tools are not development training.
In addition, and be safe in what they do.
Ranks right or identify a situation that could 879 of our employees achieved a facilities will be safely maintained to cause an accident they must cease work promotion in theyear.
avoid causing injury to employees and and inform their line manager or a others which will enable them to stay member of the health and safety team.
Leadership and engagement safe and enjoy our clubs at all times.
Ranks senior management team has Employees must report accidents and an obligation to the Groups employees reportable near misses a near miss is Rank provides all members of staff with to set clear direction and expectations adequate information, training, instruction, when an accident could have occurred and to provide regular and motivational or was narrowly avoided.
Rank can then supervision and the resources needed to feedback.
Our team member engagement build and sustain a safe place to work.
build on its established knowledge to scores tell us how effective we are in prevent a similar accident re-occurring.
In 2015 16, team Rank likes its people to be both member engagement increased by passionate and practical about keeping Rank will never be able to reduce risk 1%to80%.
themselves, our customers and our clubs or achieve the highest standards of safe.
This will be achieved by training health and safety without the active Health and safety and understanding the information involvement of employees at all levels.
Ranks aim is to keep all employees found in the Groups safety policies, From directors and heads of function and customers safe at all times.
Rank risk assessments and instructions.
developing, resourcing and driving risk will listen, recognise challenges and This will help prevent accidents, reduction methods to effective execution, continuously improve its approach to making for a pleasant employee management and feedback of those health and safety to promote a positive and customer experience.
By listening to and understood culture which in turn all employees and customers and by will help eliminate or reduce injuries analysing the accidents, incidents and ill-health.
and near misses that occur, Ranks comprehension of risks will evolve as will its approach to help improve health and safety at Rank.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 38 Diversity Please refer to page 52 which outlines the or other assessment: whether a duty to Rank is committed to providing equal boards diversity policy.
make reasonable adjustments is, or will opportunities for all of its employees.
be, imposed on the Group in relation The charts below provide a breakdown of Ranks diversity policy ensures that every to the applicant in connection with a the gender of directors and employees at employee is treated equally and fairly requirement to undergo an interview or the end of the financial year.
and that all employees are aware of other assessment: whether the applicant theirresponsibility.
Disability will be able to carry out a function that is intrinsic to the work concerned: or Rank is committed to ensuring that The policy confirms that there will people with disabilities are supported for the purpose of monitoring diversity be no direct or indirect discrimination in the range of persons applying to and encouraged to apply for employment in respect of age, disability, religious with the Group and to achieve progress the Group to work.
The Group is also belief, gender, sexual orientation, race, committed to making such reasonable whilst employed.
Disabled persons will colour, marital status, political belief and be treated so that they have an equal adjustments to premises, work practices nationality, or any other category defined and equipment as are necessary to enable opportunity, so far as is justifiable, to by law in all aspects of employment be selected, trained and promoted.
a disabled person to take up employment including recruitment, promotion, with Rank.
and opportunities for training, pay In order that people with disabilities Career development opportunities and benefits.
may have an equal opportunity of being recruited, the Group strictly applies its are communicated as appropriate to all employees and those with disabilities equal opportunities and recruitment policies.
In particular, Rank takes are encouraged to apply as detailed in the Groups equal opportunities policy.
reasonable steps to ensure that interview arrangements are such that disabled Both internal and external training opportunities are provided where they persons may attend without embarrassment or difficulty.
It also are appropriate to employees current occupations or potential opportunities ensures that any enquiries made about an applicants health prior to offering a and to the needs of the business.
Where appropriate, outside training providers job are limited to establishing whether the applicant will be able to comply with are required to demonstrate that they are able to accommodate persons with a requirement to undergo an interview Gender diversity Board Senior management Whole company male 7 male 29 male 5,530 female 1 female 13 female 5,047 The board consists of company directors, as detailed on pages 48 to 49.
1 Senior management is as defined in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, and includes: i persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the company, or a strategically significant part of the company, other than company directors and ii any other directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
com 39 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued a disability before the Group will approve Human rights We have set ourselves a target of their appointment.
The provision of Given the nature of our business and raising 1.3m for the Carers Trust internal courses is relocated as necessary its geographical spread we have not by 31 December 2016. in order to ensure that persons with included information on human rights The programme continues to support disabilities may attend, and the human issues as required by the Companies carers through a dedicated Rank Cares resources department is responsible for Act 2006 Regulations 2013. grant programme which has resulted in a making suitable arrangements with total of 2,361 carers receiving some level regard to the venue or the format in Our communities of support since launch.
Approximately which any supporting course materials five grant panels are held each year and are provided.
Rank has continued its long history to date 110 Rank employees have had of community involvement and the opportunity to sit on a panel to help During performance appraisal charitable fundraising.
meetings in particular, managers are decide where and to whom the money How it affects our is awarded.
required to pay special attention to the performance and position views of disabled employees on career In addition, Rank Cares provides Our venues are often cited as development issues such as access to a framework for team members to community hubs particularly training development events and or volunteer their time to help the Carers our Mecca venues.
We challenge all opportunities, and are expected to Trust, often utilising hidden talents to of our teams to consider what they enquire whether there is anything bring relief and happiness to these selfless can contribute to the communities that the Group may reasonably do carers.
Since the launch, a total of 6,228 that they serve.
to help the person develop and use volunteer hours have been completed their abilities at work.
Our policies and actions across the business 2,450 of them in In February 2014, we launched Rank Where an employee becomes disabled, 2015 16.
Mecca and Grosvenor Casino Cares to support the work of the Carers whether through accident, illness or colleagues helped many carers centres Trust to help those who help others in injury, every reasonable and practicable across the UK with activities like need of care.
Around one in ten people consideration will be given to ensuring pamper days, gardening, baking in Britain today provide unpaid care for that they may remain in employment.
another often a sick or elderly relation.
Any situations involving an employee The Carers Trust provides support, advice who becomes disabled require the and relief for those undertaking what is involvement of human resources, who often very physically and emotionally Having an impact monitor the employees disability and draining work.
provide advice during their ongoing Paul is 30 and cares for his partner employment.
The Group may take a The success of the Rank Cares programme who has ME and struggles to walk.
variety of steps to enable continuing continues with us celebrating raising He looks after her on a daily basis, employment.
All necessary advice 1m at the end of the 2015 calendar year helping her with personal hygiene, and counselling will be provided for and 1.25m since its launch in February administering her medication, the employee concerned by human 2014.
We continue to set a fundraising preparing food and attending all resources, who will also consult external target of 0.4m per year.
He is also the main specialist organisations as appropriate.
carer for the couples two children.
Some of the fundraising has come The Group welcomes suggestions from employees payroll giving through from disabled employees regarding Paul had to give up a job that he the Pennies from Heaven scheme where adjustments which could assist with loved to look after his family causing employees donate the pennies from their ability to undertake their role.
him to feel depressed and isolated.
We currently have 20% of The familys cooker was broken and employees signed up, with the pennies Paul was finding it hard to provide alone generating more than 17,000. healthy meals for the family.
Paul applied to the Carers Essentials Fund and was awarded 300 towards the cost of a new cooker, which has relieved a lot of stress and difficulty for Paul and the whole family.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 40 Beyond the Carers Trust, Rank employees Flying high continue to raise money for other charities: for Carers Trust In conjunction with the Bingo Association, Mecca sold merchandise Jody Holland and Trish Whitehead and hosted charity bingo games.
A total went sky high for Rank Cares, raising of 67,436 was raised to benefit Variety, 1,240 in their first ever parachute the childrens charity jump.
The brave skydiving pair from Numerous staff members have raised Mecca Chester also raised awareness money for cancer charities throughout for Carers Trust and the work that it the year does by getting publicity in the local At Christmas Mecca venues collected press.
Trish even managed a smile for the camera on her way down!
gifts for local childrens hospitals Mecca Scotland kilt walk and hospices Mecca Chester flying high The Rank executive committee causing a splash for a charity car wash www.
com 41 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued Rank and the environment comfortably beating our target for Our environmental committee continues Our policies and actions the year.
Our intention is to continue to review all energy saving opportunities greenhouse gas GHG emissions to reduce our volume of waste and via our opportunities database, with the We have now reduced our carbon further improve our recycling levels.
assistance of our general managers and footprint for the fifth consecutive year, environmental champions at club level.
Our gas and electricity consumption in like-for-like, since 2010.
Our carbon As well as implementing best practices the UK has been reduced by 4.7% over footprint, including Belgium and Spain, at our clubs, it includes the review of the last year.
is now 64,679 tCO e, a reduction of technological advances such as LED 2 10.6% from 2014 15. lighting opportunities and HVAC We have commenced our gas Automated controls and strategies.
Meter Readers AMRs replacement Following the successful implementation programme and intend to upgrade our of food waste collection across our estate, Over the next 12 months we energy consumption reporting for gas and in partnership with our waste will be aiming to achieve another and electricity upon completion to management company, we have reduced year of like-for-like environmental further assist with our ongoing our overall amount of waste by 18% and improvements and energy reductions.
also improved our landfill diversion, which is now over 96%, thereby Greenhouse gas emissions Year ended 30 June 2016 Year ended 30 June 2015 Tonnes of Tonnes of Tonnes of CO e m Tonnes of CO e m 2 2 1 1 CO e % revenue CO e % revenue 2 2 Scope 1 Constitutes gas use plus gas oil in Belgium, owned transport and fugitive F-gas emissions 17,001 27 17,833 25 Scope 2 Comprises electricity generation 32,605 50 38,556 53 2 Scope3 Comprises waste, materials use, flights, electricity transmission and distribution 15,040 23 15,928 22 3 Outside of scopes Represents the biogenic proportion of petrol and diesel 34 46 Total 64,680 100 90.8 72,363 100 103.3 1 CO e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming of greenhouse gases expressed in terms of global warming potential of one unit of 2 carbon dioxide.
2 Well-to-tank emissions for fuels electricity, gas, petrol, diesel and aviation fuel, which would sit within scope 3, are not included in the report.
3 This is categorised as outside scopes rather than scope 3 in line with the Defra 2015 emission factor guidance.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 42
