Other information Glossary Financial terminology EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items Like-for-like Excludes club openings, closures and relocations, and changes to gaming taxation Operating margin Operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenue Revenue Income retained by Group after deductions for VAT and players winnings KPI terminology Customer visits Individual customer visits to bingo clubs and casinos Customers Unique customers visiting a bingo club or casino or operating an online account in the 12-month period Net promoter score A measure of a customers propensity to recommend Online offline crossover Percentage of venues customers who are also digital customers Spend per visit Revenue divided by customer visits Gaming industry terminology Adult gaming centre A licensed gaming machines arcade Alderney Gambling Control Commission The body responsible for the regulation of eGambling in the states of Alderney Gambling Commission The governing body for all sectors of gambling in Great Britain, with the exception of the National Lottery and spread betting GamCare A charitable organisation that provides counselling and other services to those with gambling-related problems Interval games Automated game of bingo played in a licensed club Main stage bingo Traditional game of bingo played in a licensed club Pari-mutuel gaming Gaming where players compete with each other to win prizes.
The house may take a fee for organising the game but does not participate actively.
Also called player-to-player gaming Remote gaming and betting Gambling services offered to customers via the internet and mobile phone Responsible Gambling Trust A charitable organisation that funds treatment, education and research related to problem gambling and which was formed following the merger of The GREaT Foundation and the Responsible Gambling Fund Reverse withdrawal Once a customer has requested a withdrawal they have until we process the withdrawal to reverse this request customer benefit is that they are not re-depositing and their funds remain available to them for longer Ticket in Ticket Out TiTo This is a technology used in modern slot machines whereby the machine prints out a barcoded slip of paper which can then either be redeemed for cash or inserted for play into other TiTo machines The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 140 www.
com In line with our strategy we aim to build our digital capability and are committed to improve the way we communicate with our stakeholders.
As a result weve launched a major upgrade of our corporate website.
Weve built our website to be fully responsive across multiple devices, and have developed new content across the sections with improved search facilities and more interactive elements, all designed to make the site more engaging and user-friendly.
So for all our latest news and to find out more about Rank, get online!
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Arcoprint, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 The Rank Group Plc Statesman House Stafferton Way Maidenhead SL6 1AY Tel: 01628 504 000 Web: www.
