97 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Contents Financial Statements 98 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 105 Group Income Statement 106 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 107 Group Balance Sheet 108 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 109 Group Cash Flow Statement 110 Notes to the Financial Statements 152 Five Year Summary 153 Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 155 Parent Company Balance Sheet 156 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 157 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 174 Shareholder Information Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 98 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Report on the Group Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion, Reckitt Benckiser Group plcs Group Financial Statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 138 million which represents 5% of profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
Audit scope We conducted audit work in 18 countries in which the Group has significant operations.
The reporting units where we performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted for 77% of Group revenue and 77% of Group profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
The Group engagement team visited 16 of the 18 component audit teams to attend audit clearance meetings and discuss the audit approach and findings with those local teams.
For those countries not visited we maintained regular contact with the local team and evaluated the outcome of their audit work.
Areas of focus Accounting for customer trade spend.
Provision for uncertain tax exposures.
Accounting for provisions and impairments resulting from the RB Oxy Humidifiers issue.
Valuation of provisions for liabilities arising from legal investigations.
The classification of exceptional items.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 99 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for customer trade spend Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating the Refer to page 72 Audit Committee review of areas of significant controls and systems related to the trade spend process, and where judgement and page 114 accounting policies.
appropriate obtaining audit evidence through testing operating effectiveness of relevant controls together with substantive audit As is industry practice, in each country in which the Group operates procedures.
there are numerous types of complex commercial arrangements with retailers and other customers that have a range of terms for example Testing of controls included examining appropriate authorisation for promotions, rebates and discounts.
trade spend agreements and contracts, considering segregation of duties over the creation and approval of the accruals and testing the Trade spend arrangements have varying terms, some of which are resolution of variations between actual and expected trade spend.
supported by annual contracts or joint business plans, whilst others are based on shorter term agreements entered into during the year.
In The substantive audit procedures performed for each individual addition, the level and timing of promotions for individual products or component varied depending upon the component team and the nature ranges varies from period to period, and activity can span over a year of the trade spend and type of agreement but included the following end.
These judgements impact the reported results of the country, tests, on a sample basis: segment and the Group and in particular influence the calculation of net Agreeing costs incurred during the year to invoices and other revenue and country operating profit, both of which are key correspondence from the customers and subsequent settlement: performance indicators for management incentive schemes.
Agreeing key elements of the estimates to supporting documentation such as joint business plans, contracts and EPOS We consider there to be a specific risk associated with the accuracy of data: the trade spend that has been incurred in the year as this is material and Circularising external confirmations to the customers to confirm the can be complex and judgemental.
In particular we focused on the existence of specific promotions and the underlying key assumptions approval of the arrangements, the period to which the spend relates of the accrual calculation: and whether balances had been settled.
In addition, we focused on Recalculating managements estimates: estimates of the obligations at the reporting date in respect of all trade Evaluating the accuracy of the prior year trade spend balance by spend arrangements trade spend accruals.
We focused on this area comparing the historic accruals to actual spend incurred: and due to the complexity and level of judgement required in making the Testing trade spend transactions around the year end to determine key assumptions underpinning the estimates.
For example: whether they had been recognised in the appropriate period.
The date of shipment to the retailer and the period over which the promotion will run may differ: As the Group engagement team, we were specifically involved in Details of the retailers EPOS data may be required to determine the determining and assessing the appropriateness of the audit approach accuracy of trade spend committed at the reporting date: and for each component in this area.
This satisfied us that sufficient focus Promotions may span over the year end and therefore estimation of was placed on the more judgemental areas and that, whilst complex, the future volume or margin levels of the retailer must be forecast to the area was well understood and sufficient focus was placed on the risk determine the level of the accrual required.
Therefore, our areas of focus included whether the accruals were understated and appropriately valued, whether trade spend was recorded in the correct period and whether the significant one-off transactions had been accurately recorded in the Income Statement.
Provision for uncertain tax exposures We updated our detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy Refer to page 52 Principal risks and page 71 Audit Committee review and Group transfer pricing policy, particularly in relation to any changes of areas of significant judgement and Note 7 Income Tax Expense.
implemented during 2016, we assessed key technical tax issues and risks related to business and legislative developments using, where Due to the Group operating across a number of different tax applicable, our local and international tax specialists.
jurisdictions it is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the normal course of business.
We obtained explanations from management and corroborative These challenges include transaction related tax matters, financing evidence including, communication with local tax authorities, details of and transfer pricing arrangements arising from centralised functions progress with Advanced Pricing Agreements and copies of external tax that drive value across a number of different countries.
advice reports relating to tax treatments applied and the corresponding provisions recorded.
Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on managements judgement of the probable amount We challenged managements key assumptions, in particular on of the liability.
cases where there had been significant developments with local tax authorities, noting no significant deviations from our expectations.
We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing the quantification and likelihood of certain potential exposures and We also evaluated whether the liabilities and potential exposures were therefore the level of provision required for specific cases.
We also appropriately disclosed in the Financial Statements.
considered the impact of changes in country tax environments across the Group, which could materially impact the amounts recorded in the Financial Statements.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements
