22 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic overview Our betterbusiness strategy betterfinancials What we said Deliver 4-5% LFL Net Revenue growth, through focus The betterfinancials element of on Health and Hygiene and by increasing distribution our strategy has four pillars, which and penetration focus us on faster-growing markets Achieve moderate Adjusted Operating Margin and categories and enable us to expansion outperform.
Drive further benefits from Project Supercharge Continue to create a connected company, through investments in our systems, e-business capabilities and data analytics What we did LFL Net Revenue growth 3% short of target due to the HS issue in South Korea and the Scholl Amop Wet & Dry express pedi failing to deliver to expectation Outperformed our Adjusted Operating Margin expansion target up 130bps Made further progress towards our Net Revenue targets for DvM and Health and Hygiene see pages 38 to 41, and on Project Supercharge, we have completed the majority of the programme of our planned 150 million cost savings over three years Strategic approach Formed a Safety, Quality and Compliance SQC team see page 24 Established a dedicated e-business function to Organisation Powerbrands accelerate online revenues see page 24 Organising our business into We invest heavily in our focused two geographical areas helps us portfolio of 19 market-leading to allocate resources and scale Powerbrands.
We continually evolve over 80% of our revenue and What we will do our organisation, to ensure fast offer higher revenue growth decision making and execution.
Continue to invest heavily behind our Powermarkets Powermarkets Virtuous and Powerbrands, particularly in Health and Hygiene, We have 16 Powermarkets.
earnings model to increase penetration and distribution These are the markets which We focus on higher-margin Advance our SQC processes and practices, with have the highest absolute growth initiatives and rigorous control of the aim of moving from good to great performance potential for us and where we see our costs.
Through our virtuous the greatest ability to win.
They earnings model, this funds our are weighted towards developing investment in our brands, markets which have greater capabilities and development, economic growth, rising middle and enables us to deliver classes and more opportunities to operating margin expansion.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 23 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 11% Total Net Revenue KPIs growth Performance Organisation 2 LIKE-FOR-LIKE NET REVENUE GROWTH Commentary Growth in Net Revenue, excluding the 2016 was a good year in which 3% impact of changes in exchange rates, we achieved broad-based acquisitions and disposals growth and excellent margin 2013 5% expansion, despite challenging 2014 4% Category: Medium-term Target markets and an unusual 2015 6% growth: number of issues.
2016 3% Health 46% Outperform Hygiene 35% Top end Home 12% In line 2 OPERATING MARGIN EXPANSION Commentary The increase in the Adjusted Operating Adjusted Operating Margin 130bps Margin was 28.1% due to strong Gross Margin expansion and 2013 20bps Medium-term target: fixed cost containment.
2014 160bps Moderate Adjusted Operating 2015 210bps 2 Margin expansion 2016 130bps Powermarkets DvM Commentary Net Revenue generated in DvM delivered LFL growth of 31% our DvM Area, as a percentage 8% with strong penetration of total Net Revenue gains from Dettol and Harpic 2013 31% We operate in underpinned by innovation 2014 30% Target to 2020: and consumer education 2015 31% 16 1 programmes.
2016 31% 40% Powermarkets Note: 2013 number restated to reflect DvM Area Powerbrands HEALTH AND HYGIENE Commentary Net Revenue generated by our Health and Hygiene delivered 75% Health and Hygiene categories, as a LFL growth of 4%.
The Health percentage of total Net Revenue portfolio exceeded market 2013 70% We have growth rates with the 2014 72% Target to 2020: exception of Scholl Amop 2015 74% 1 Wet & Dry express pedi.
19 75% 2016 80% Hygiene growth was led by Powerbrands DvM growth of the Dettol and Harpic brands and the growth of Finish in ENA.
Please note: 2013 numbers have been adjusted to strip out RB Pharmaceuticals 1 Excluding the impact of the proposed acquisition of Mead Johnson 2 Definitions of non-IFRS measures and their reconciliation to IFRS measures are shown on page 45 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 24 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic overview betterfinancials in action What were doing Enhancing our safety, quality and compliance culture Our new SQC team brings together health and safety, consumer safety, quality, compliance and sustainability, with the aim of strengthening and co-ordinating our capabilities.
The team sets the agenda for the Group and reports directly to the CEO, giving these critical areas focus at the very top of the organisation.
Organisation We continued to develop our Driving incremental organisation in 2016, establishing new growth online functions to support our growth and operations, while introducing further In 2016, we established a dedicated e-business unit.
It supports our in-country simplification and efficiency.
teams with their online offerings but crucially is also developing a centralised proposition for selling our products across borders.
By building our relationships with e-distributors and partners such as Amazon, it aims to accelerate online growth for us.
Highlights 2016 Leveraging Continued to benefit from two-area structure introduced in 2015, simplifying the scaling and activation of our initiatives the power of data see Operating Review on pages 38 to 41 Delivered further benefits from Project Supercharge, our Data analysis gives us essential insights into cultural programme to simplify the organisation, targeting consumer needs.
This year we opened a 150 million annual savings digital centre in Poland, employing around 40 specialists to give us better and faster Set up Safety, Quality and Compliance SQC team data analytics.
The new metrics and key Established new e-business function and digital centre performance indicators we can now produce Continued to simplify and strengthen our IT function, by will help us to become more agile and improve consolidating suppliers, data centres and help desks, and our speed of decision making.
investing in cyber security Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 25 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements What were doing Setting the pace in e-commerce E-commerce is a huge growth driver for us in China.
As well as our own platform, we have strong relationships with major players such as Taobao and Alibaba, and e-distributors Online sales are who put our products in around 1,000 online over 30% of our shops.
This presence means online sales are business in China now over 30% of our Net Revenue in China, with a target of 50% by 2020.
Online sales China Non-online sales China Powermarkets In 2016, we made further Succeeding with strategic progress in our our strategy in India Powermarkets, with particular We once again delivered rapid growth in India, with success in India and China.
successful brand penetration programmes and marketing putting our products in the hands of ever more consumers.
We also stepped up our visits to stores, with an extra 200 salespeople helping to significantly expand our distribution.
Dettol India continued to implement its five-year Banega Swachh India BSI programme promoting nationwide hygiene and sanitation among students Highlights 2016 Working in Strong growth in DvM, with improved household penetration, and solid growth in ENA, held back by difficult partnership with Amazon conditions in Russia see pages 38 to 39 India was a major contributor to growth this year, fuelled by Our relationship with Amazon in the US is innovation and expanded distribution, despite a significant going from strength to strength.
By analysing slowdown in Q4 caused by the demonetisation market Amazons traffic data and providing highdisruption.
quality content that differentiates our products, we are increasing conversions and repeat visits, China grew rapidly, led by e-commerce resulting in significant sales growth.
Acquired cornerstone investment in China Resources Pharmaceutical Group, Chinas largest over-the-counter OTC drugs manufacturer, and signed non-binding strategic cooperation agreement Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 26 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic overview betterfinancials in action continued What were doing Increasing penetration for Dettol Increasing penetration has been key to Dettols growth this year.
From smaller sizes at lower prices in India to cost-effective super-sized soap bars in Nigeria, we offer the right size at the right price.
We also raise awareness of the importance of hand hygiene, for example through sponsoring Handwashing Day and our hand hygiene education programme in India.
Multiple hand hygiene initiatives have reached 12.8 million people in India Powerbrands We continue to benefit from our strategic focus on the Health and Raising demand through Hygiene categories and remain consumer education well positioned to outperform the Our point of market entry campaigns for Durex were long-term category growth rates.
By offering sex education to young people and helping them avoid unwanted pregnancies, we stimulated demand for our products.
We also continued to innovate, expanding our sexual wellbeing offer with KY Duration, to help with premature ejaculation.
Highlights 2016 Growing the Successfully grew in Health and Hygiene by focusing on penetration initiatives for our global brands see case studies market for Scholl and Operating Review on pages 40 to 41 Successful innovations contributed to growth, such as Durex We have increased penetration of Scholl significantly Invisible extra thin condoms, Mucinex Fast Max Day Night since 2013.
In 2016, we launched Scholl Light Legs gelcaps and Dettol Gold, although newly launched Scholl compression tights and GelActiv invisible insoles and Amop Wet & Dry express pedi underperformed, against a inserts all designed to provide superior comfort for strong comparative for the brand in 2015 tired legs and feet.
While short-term growth rates may fluctuate, our mediumterm annual growth rate expectation for our categories is unchanged: Health 4-6%, Hygiene 3-5%, Home 1-2% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 27 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Gross Margin Brand Equity Our ethos is that the virtuous Investment BEI Virtuous earnings model starts at Gross We focus our investment on Margin.
Gross Margin creates consumer education and room in the Income Statement to penetration activities, to build earnings model fund investment and deliver long-term brand equity.
We includes our TV and print media drive Gross Margin expansion spend, digital and social media through our focus on higherinvestment and consumer and margin brands, which results in a medical education.
superior sales mix, stronger pricing and by continuing to Net Revenue Through our virtuous earnings model, optimise our cost of goods sold, BEI helps us to grow Net we are able to fund investment in our an ongoing process we call Revenue.
disproportionately behind our brands, capabilities and development, Powerbrands and in our so we drive revenue growth while Fixed cost Powermarkets, where our We invest appropriately behind investment can have the greatest increasing our operating margin.
our people, capabilities and impact on the top line.
However, we from the sale of products is deliberately keep our recognised when the risks and organisation lean, encouraging rewards of ownership of the our people to prioritise and avoid products are passed to the inefficiency and waste.
Operating Margin Our Operating Margin is already best-in-class, but our virtuous earnings model means we can continue to expand our margins.
Progress Our virtuous earnings model remained highly effective in 2016.
Gross Gross Margin Fixed cost Margin Gross Margin benefited from Fixed costs were little changed a beneficial sales mix, as a percentage of Net commodity cost tailwinds and Revenue, as we invested in the cost optimisation initiatives.
business and Project Supercharge continued to deliver savings and efficiencies.
180bps Flat 1 BEI LFL Net Revenue We increased investment We grew Net Revenue by 3% Net UNIQUE behind our brands by 63 on a like-for-like basis.
Fixed cost Revenue million or 50bps of Net CULTURE Revenue.
Total investment was 13.2% of Net Revenue.
63m 3% 1 Adjusted Operating Margin The outcome was an increase in the Operating Margin of Operating 130bps, to 28.1%.
Margin BEI 130bps 1 Definitions of non-IFRS measures and their reconciliation to IFRS measures are shown on page 45 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
