20 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We develop, acquire, Our operating produce, distribute and model explained promote consumer products in the growing Health, Hygiene and Home categories.
Our operating model has three key elements, which enable us to create value for all our stakeholders, but primarily for our consumers, our people and our Shareholders.
Our operating model in action Wave toilet block Keeping the toilet clean and fresh is an everyday struggle for consumers.
We homed in on this need by developing the Wave toilet block.
Available under the Harpic, Cillit Bang and Lysol brands, it delivers best-in-class fragrance and cleaning cues, lasting up to four weeks.
The product also looks great, with a sleek, colourful design.
Veet Sensitive Precision We realised that women were not fully satisfied with products for removing hair in sensitive areas.
They saw them as painful or inconvenient, and lacking the precision and gentleness they wanted.
We recognised this as an opportunity for Veet to play in a new area of the market, driving brand penetration.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 21 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Create Scale Activate Innovation is in the DNA of our Company.
Centralised procurement leverages our Our brands and innovations drive footfall Bystaying close to our consumers, we learn purchasing power, while sourcing responsibly.
andonline traffic for our retail customers, about their needs and demands.
We generate We manufacture most Powerbrand products encouraging them to stock our products.
a range of ideas to meet those needs, which in-house, with third parties producing some Wework with major retailers to promote our we translate to differentiated products with other brands for us.
Quality control is stringent, products and grow the category, supported by blockbuster potential, driving greater consumer particularly in healthcare.
Our customer-facing our worldwide commercial operations, and use loyalty, faster growth and better margins.
supply services organisation aims for best-inof distributors to reach smaller retailers.
We Sustainability is built into our process, for class delivery and customer satisfaction.
To invest heavily behind our brands, through example to minimise carbon emissions and rapidly scale our innovations, we identify a lead advertising, social and digital media, and water use.
Our culture of innovation and market and our Power of 1 team develops consumer education.
Our virtuous earnings pushing boundaries on new-to-world solutions global launch packages which we can take to model enables us to fund this investment, grow means that occasionally we also fail, such as all markets.
Our financial strength also allows revenues and increase our margins.
with the Scholl Amop Wet & Dry express pedi.
us to acquire brands, which we quickly We are as comfortable with these rare failures integrate into our operating model.
as we are excited by our many successes.
Wave toilet block Wave toilet block Wave toilet block Create Scale Activate Having identified the need for a superior Sales far exceeded expectation following the Waves in-market performance, combined toiletblock, we partnered with a third party to initial launch.
Performance was closely with our years of experience, helped us to develop and improve their existing product.
monitored and lessons learned were used to create an approach tailored to the needs of The toilet block was launched just six months scale further into new markets for toilet blocks, each specific market.
Approved budgets have after conception in France, Germany, US, such as Russia.
Close collaboration across been created for each country with regard to Turkey, UK and Benelux.
This required no departments and with our partners enabled promotional media spend for the toilet block, capital expenditure for RB and demonstrated us to rapidly increase capacity.
We are poised to continue to increase sales of Wave during our speed to market.
for a truly global rollout in 2017.
Veet Sensitive Precision Veet Sensitive Precision Veet Sensitive Precision Create Scale Activate Our product idea was distinctive: a versatile Close collaboration across departments, great By continually gathering lessons, identifying electric trimmer, tailored to gently trim and supplier management and constant monitoring success factors and correcting issues, we precisely style hair in areas such as the face, of test markets enabled us to rapidly ramp achieved excellent execution across our bikini and underarms.
We test marketed it in up capacity, as sales exceeded expectations.
We used our keen understanding Germany, which proved the high penetration We addressed issues identified by online of the 4Ps product, price, promotion and potential of mass-distributing the device and reviews through continuous improvement place, and created strong communication maximising its visibility and accessibility.
and, in just six months, we rolled out the assets to maximise consumer awareness, trimmer in more than 20 markets.
including activation guidelines for vloggers and bloggers.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
