100 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for provisions and impairments resulting from the RB Our audit procedures focused on understanding the basis for Oxy Humidifiers issue managements provisions and impairments and in particular the Refer to pages 14 to 15, Note 17 Provisions for liabilities and charges assumptions and judgements made by management.
and Note 3 analysis of net operating expenses.
In respect of the asset impairments we obtained detailed trading In 2001, RB acquired Oxy, a South Korean company which analysis for the year and an understanding of future plans for the local manufactured and sold Humidifier Sanitiser HS products.
The product South Korean brands to determine whether there was any recoverable was subsequently withdrawn following an epidemiology study that value to the brands.
concluded that certain HS products may be the cause of reported lung and respiratory injuries and deaths.
In respect of the provision we substantively tested managements model, including performing the following procedures: In 2016 management publicly apologised for its role and committed to Discussed and corroborated the key facts of the situation and key set up a compensation fund for the victims.
Management recorded a assumptions within the provision with external legal counsel.
total exceptional charge of 300 million in the year, principally Obtained confirmations from external legal counsel and compared associated with the provision for the compensation fund and associated their assessment of the facts and circumstances of the case with costs and the write off of certain local brands following the significant managements.
Verified assumptions associated with the number of people eligible for compensation to official South Korean Government body press There is significant complexity and a high level of management releases.
judgement associated with determining the likelihood and magnitude of Confirmed the settlements agreed to date to signed agreements and the required provision, in particular due to the number of people who verified that the basis of the provision is consistent with these meet the criteria to be compensated by the RB scheme and the severity settlements.
Assessed the work of managements experts used to estimate the future medical costs.
There is a risk that the provisions are not held at the correct value and Checked the mathematical accuracy of the model.
that there may be associated assets which should be impaired.
Finally, Performed our own sensitivities to assess the appropriateness of there is a risk that management includes insufficient disclosure within managements assumptions.
We have also assessed the completeness of the contingent liability disclosures in respect of other potential exposures which cannot currently be reliably estimated.
Based upon the procedures performed we considered managements provisions, impairments and disclosures to be appropriate.
Valuation of provisions for liabilities arising from Our audit procedures focused on the assumptions and judgements legal investigations made by management in determining the recognition and valuation of Refer to page 51 Principal risks, Note 17 Provisions for liabilities and associated provisions and contingent liabilities.
charges and Note 19 Contingent liabilities and assets.
We confirmed that, where applicable, discussions took place with The Group has been subject to a number of legal investigations, for in-country legal teams and audit evidence was sought in that location, example in respect of violations of antitrust and competition laws, such as obtaining external confirmations.
This was corroborated with and has recorded a provision on its Balance Sheet of 329 million, the Group legal team to understand the status of any significant including the provision held for the RB Oxy Humidifiers issue referenced investigations or litigation, the associated risks and the basis for any above.
In addition, the Group is currently involved in ongoing provision recorded.
investigations by the US Department of Justice, which has been disclosed as a contingent liability.
We obtained and read relevant legal documents that confirmed the existence of each case and quantified expected liabilities.
There is a high level of management judgement associated with determining the need for, and the magnitude of, provisions for any We obtained confirmations from the Groups external legal counsel, liabilities arising from these investigations.
and where considered necessary held calls with external counsel, and compared their description and assessment of the facts and Therefore, we consider there to be a risk that the provisions may be held circumstances of the cases and, where applicable the potential at the incorrect value on the Balance Sheet and that disclosure within outcome against managements and the internal legal teams the Annual Report in respect of these cases and their potential impact assessment.
We did not identify any significant inconsistencies.
on the Financial Statements may not be sufficient.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 101 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus The classification of exceptional items We obtained corroborative evidence for the items presented within Refer to page 111 accounting policies and Note 3 Analysis of net exceptional items.
We challenged managements rationale for the designation of certain In the past few years the Group has had significant levels of exceptional items as exceptional and assessed such items against the Groups items which are disclosed separately within the Income Statement and accounting policy and the consistency of treatment with prior periods.
are excluded from managements reporting of the underlying results of the business.
We also considered whether there were items that were recorded within underlying profit that we determined to be exceptional in nature and The nature of these exceptional items are explained within the Group should have been included within exceptional items.
No such items accounting policy and includes restructuring costs, gains or losses arising were identified.
on acquisitions or disposals and costs resulting from non-recurring legal or regulatory matters.
This year the Group has identified 367 million of net exceptional items which relate primarily to the South Korea issue discussed above and the Group-led restructuring programme associated with Project Supercharge.
Our specific area of focus was to assess whether the items identified by management met the definition within the Groups accounting policy and have been treated consistently, as the identification of such items required judgement by management.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year-on-year reporting within the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment We evaluated the process by which management prepared its cash flow Refer to page 71 Audit Committee review of areas of significant forecasts and compared them against the latest Board approved plans judgement and Note 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets and management approved forecasts.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of the plans and forecasts, for example by comparing the The Group has goodwill of 3,920 million and other indefinite lived forecasts used in the prior year model to the actual performance of the intangible assets of 9,428 million as at 31 December 2016 which are business in the current year.
These procedures enabled us to determine required to be tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Management the accuracy of the forecasting process and apply appropriate has allocated these assets to individual cash generating units CGUs and sensitivities to the cash flows.
groups of CGUs GCGUs and there is judgement around how these are determined, specifically in respect of changes in the year.
In 2016 the We assessed the appropriateness of managements discount rates, Group exercised its option to acquire the legal title to intellectual future cash flows and long-term growth rates, specifically focusing on property associated with the collaboration agreement with Bristol Myers the CGUs identified opposite.
We benchmarked assumptions against Squibb BMS and as a result created a new CGU.
industry and peer group comparators and metrics such as country inflation rates.
There is further judgement around the determination of the recoverable amount, being the higher of value in use and fair value less costs of Based upon our assessments described above, we challenged disposal.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements view of the management on the appropriateness of its sensitivity calculations future results and prospects of the business, the appropriate discount by applying our own sensitivity analysis to the forecast cash flows, rates to be applied and specific risk factors applied to the GCGUs and long-term growth rates and discount rates to ascertain the extent to CGUs.
which reasonable adverse changes would, either individually or in aggregate, require an impairment of either the goodwill or indefinite life Due to VMS, BMS and Oriental Pharma being recent acquisitions, the assets.
Following these assessments we concluded that sensitivity brands remain relatively more sensitive to impairment.
These three disclosures were only required for the BMS and Oriental Pharma CGUs.
indefinite life CGUs are primarily concentrated in single markets, the US, Brazil and Mexico and China respectively, although the VMS brand We determined that no impairment charges were required, based on continues to be rolled out across Europe and Asia.
The key judgements the results of our work.
Management has described the key sensitivities in determining the recoverable amount of these GCGUs are in respect of applied in the Goodwill and other intangible assets note to the the forecast cash flows within these primary markets, the use of Financial Statements.
appropriate discount rates and the long-term growth rates applied.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 102 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into two geographical regions being DvM Developing Markets including North Africa, Middle East excluding Israel, North Africa and Turkey, Africa, South Asia, North Asia, Latin America and ASEAN and ENA Europe including Russia and Israel, North America and Australia and New Zealand.
There is also a separate segment for the Food business.
Each country within the aforementioned geographical regions and Food business consists of a number of management reporting entities which are consolidated by Group management.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 715 reporting units representing the operating businesses within these geographical-based divisions and the centralised functions.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified 56 reporting units from across the two geographic regions and Food business that required an audit of their complete financial information due to their individual size or risk characteristics.
The reporting units where we performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted for 77% of the Groups profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items and 77% of the Groups revenue.
Included within these 56 reporting units were three reporting units that were audited by the Group engagement team, including the Groups treasury company and the parent company.
Audits of the revenue financial statement line item were performed in a further two reporting units.
The 53 reporting units, excluding those audited by the Group engagement team, are audited by 18 component auditor teams.
The Group engagement team visited 16 of the 18 local component teams to meet with local management, attend audit clearance meetings and discuss the audit approach and findings with the local audit teams.
For those countries not visited we had regular communication with the local teams, both before and after their audit.
Our attendance at the clearance meetings, review and discussion of the audit results at overseas locations, together with the additional procedures performed at a Group level described below, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
Our audit procedures at the Group level included the audit of the consolidation, the UK pension schemes due to their size and certain tax procedures.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 138 million 2015: 117 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied Profit before income tax, adjusted for the impact of all non-recurring exceptional items, provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality and is, we believe, the metric most commonly used by the Shareholders as a body in assessing the Groups performance.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 8 million and 72 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 6 million 2015: 6 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement, set out on page 96, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors Statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 103 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these Statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 96, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 70 and 71, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 67 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the We have nothing material to add or Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including to draw attention to.
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing material to add or or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 46 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing material to add or Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so to draw attention to.
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors Statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 104 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities set out on page 96, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of Financial Statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company Financial Statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 20 March 2017 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 105 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Group Income Statement 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December Note m m Net Revenue 2 9,891 8,874 Cost of sales 3,865 3,628 Gross profit 6,026 5,246 Net operating expenses 3 3,616 3,005 Operating profit 2 2,410 2,241 Adjusted operating profit 2,777 2,374 Exceptional items 3 367 133 Operating profit 2,410 2,241 Finance income 6 42 21 Finance expense 6 58 54 Net finance expense 16 33 Profit before income tax 2,394 2,208 Income tax expense 7 558 463 Net income 1,836 1,745 Attributable to non-controlling interests 4 2 Attributable to owners of the parent 1,832 1,743 Net income 1,836 1,745 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 8 260.2 244.4 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 8 256.5 240.9 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 106 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December Note m m Net income 1,836 1,745 Other comprehensive income expense Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years Net exchange gains losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax 7 1,618 124 Losses on net investment hedges, net of tax 7 128 49 Losses gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7 22 14 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of foreign operations, net of tax 7 33 1,468 126 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years Revaluation of available for sale financial assets 7 2 Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans, net of tax 7 138 46 140 46 Other comprehensive income expense, net of tax 1,328 80 Total comprehensive income 3,164 1,665 Attributable to non-controlling interests 4 2 Attributable to owners of the parent 3,160 1,663 Total comprehensive income 3,164 1,665 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 107 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Group Balance Sheet 2016 2015 As at 31 December Note m m ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 9 13,454 11,296 Property, plant and equipment 10 878 730 Available for sale financial assets 14 39 Deferred tax assets 11 81 57 Retirement benefit surplus 22 36 63 Other non-current receivables 13 81 240 14,569 12,386 Current assets Inventories 12 770 681 Trade and other receivables 13 1,623 1,331 Derivative financial instruments 14 158 121 Current tax recoverable 14 9 Short-term investments 14 3 Cash and cash equivalents 15 882 740 3,450 2,882 Total assets 18,019 15,268 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 16 1,585 1,749 Provisions for liabilities and charges 17 251 229 Trade and other payables 20 3,495 2,948 Derivative financial instruments 14 58 22 Current tax liabilities 21 12 91 5,401 5,039 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 16 804 671 Deferred tax liabilities 11 1,983 1,692 Retirement benefit obligations 22 361 257 Other provisions 17 174 115 Non-current tax liabilities 21 740 559 Other non-current liabilities 20 130 29 4,192 3,323 Total liabilities 9,593 8,362 Net assets 8,426 6,906 EQUITY Capital and reserves Share capital 23 74 74 Share premium 243 243 Merger reserve 14,229 14,229 Hedging reserve 25 4 18 Foreign currency translation reserve 25 526 964 Retained earnings 21,811 21,762 Attributable to owners of the parent 8,421 6,904 Attributable to non-controlling interests 5 2 Total equity 8,426 6,906 The Financial Statements on pages 105 to 151 were approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 20 March 2017 by: ADRIAN BELLAMY RAKESH KAPOOR Director Director Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 108 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Group Statement of Changes in Equity Total attributable to owners NonShare Share Merger Other Retained of the controlling Total capital premium reserves reserves earnings parent interests equity Notes m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2015 74 243 14,229 820 21,564 6,832 2 6,834 Comprehensive income Net income 1,743 1,743 2 1,745 Other comprehensive expense income 126 46 80 80 Total comprehensive expense income 126 1,789 1,663 2 1,665 Transactions with owners Treasury shares re-issued 23 74 74 74 Share-based payments 24 50 50 50 Current tax on share awards 7 5 5 5 Deferred tax on share awards 7 8 8 8 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 17,23 804 804 804 Cash dividends 28 924 924 2 926 Total transactions with owners 1,591 1,591 2 1,593 Balance at 31 December 2015 74 243 14,229 946 21,762 6,904 2 6,906 Comprehensive income Net income 1,832 1,832 4 1,836 Other comprehensive income expense 1,468 140 1,328 1,328 Total comprehensive income 1,468 1,692 3,160 4 3,164 Transactions with owners Treasury shares re-issued 23 79 79 79 Share-based payments 24 66 66 66 Current tax on share awards 7 14 14 14 Deferred tax on share awards 7 4 4 4 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 17,23 702 702 702 Cash dividends 28 1,035 1,035 1 1,036 Transactions with non-controlling interests 61 61 61 Total transactions with owners 1,643 1,643 1 1,644 Balance at 31 December 2016 74 243 14,229 522 21,811 8,421 5 8,426 The merger reserve relates to the 1999 combination of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. and a Group reconstruction in 2007 treated as a merger under Part 27 of the Companies Act 2006.
Refer to Note 25 for an explanation of other reserves.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 109 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Group Cash Flow Statement 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December Note m m CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating profit 2,410 2,241 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 183 171 Other non-cash gains 33 Decrease in inventories 14 22 Increase in trade and other receivables 39 218 Decrease in payables and provisions 1 23 Non-cash exceptional items 318 85 Share-based payments 66 50 Cash generated from operations 2,951 2,295 Interest paid 56 54 Interest received 40 23 Tax paid 513 480 Net cash generated from operating activities 2,422 1,784 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of property, plant and equipment 179 154 Purchase of intangible assets 214 25 Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 7 51 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 158 10 Purchase of available for sale financial assets 36 Purchase of short-term investments 3 Maturity of short-term investments 3 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries 1 Net cash used in investing activities 583 134 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 23 802 804 Treasury shares re-issued 23 79 74 Proceeds from borrowings 469 23 Repayment of borrowings 695 165 Dividends paid to owners of the parent 28 1,035 924 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 1 2 Other financing activities 219 Net cash used in financing activities 1,766 1,798 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 73 148 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 737 913 Exchange gains losses 63 28 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 873 737 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and cash equivalents 15 882 740 Overdrafts 16 9 3 873 737 RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS Net cash generated from operating activities 2,422 1,784 Net purchases of property, plant and equipment 172 103 Net cash flow from operations 2,250 1,681 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 110 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and 1 Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these have not yet been applied in preparing these Financial Statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the Financial Financial Statements are set out below.
Unless otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
Basis of Preparation Going Concern Having assessed the principal risks and other matters discussed in These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS connection with the Viability Statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under the consolidated Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 46 to 53.
The Financial Statements are also in compliance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Basis of Consolidation These Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost The consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, a company registered in the UK, and all its convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by Reckitt Benckiser loss.
A summary of the Groups more important accounting policies is set out below.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the Group plc.
Control exists where the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with, the investee and has consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
the ability to use its power over the investee to affect itsreturns.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies have been eliminated on at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
Unrealised losses have also been eliminated to the extent that they do not represent an impairment of a transferred asset.
estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants Subsidiaries accounting policies have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Fair value for measurement and or Foreign Currency Translation disclosure purposes in these consolidated Financial Statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have some environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
The preparation of Financial Statements that conform to IFRSs requires Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date and exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange estimates are based on managements best knowledge at the time, rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign actual amounts may ultimately differ from those estimates.
currencies are recognised in the Income Statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations which have The Financial Statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are been adopted for the first time and have a significant impact on the translated into Sterling on the following basis: accounting policies applied in preparing the annual consolidated Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year Financial Statements of the Group.
Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange for In these Financial Statements, the Group has not applied the following theyear.
new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers which will be Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018: in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments IFRS 9: Financial Instruments which will be effective for annual designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018: and onconsolidation.
IFRS 16: Leases which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Business Combinations The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of The Group is in the process of evaluating the impact of each of these subsidiaries.
Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles in a new standards, focusing on IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, given their application business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the dates.
IFRS 9 is likely to impact the measurement and disclosure of acquisition date.
financial instruments and IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition.
IFRS 16 will impact the treatment of the Groups operating Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets leases.
It is not practicable to provide an impact of these new standards acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which the until this evaluation has been completed.
combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
Final fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date and A number of other new standards, amendments and interpretations are retrospectively applied.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 111 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued Exceptional Items The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any Where material, non-recurring expenses or income are incurred during a non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets period, these items are disclosed as exceptional items in the Income including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is Statement.
Examples of such items are: recorded as goodwill.
Restructuring and other expenses relating to the integration of an acquired business and related expenses for reconfiguration of the The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets Groups activities.
given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities assumed or Impairments of current and non-current assets.
incurred at the date of acquisition.
Gains losses on disposal of businesses.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Costs arising as a result of material and non-recurring regulatory and litigation matters.
The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date.
The Group also presents an alternative adjusted earnings per share calculation to exclude the impact of the exceptional items.
Disposal of Subsidiaries The financial performance of subsidiaries is included in the Group results Management believes that the use of adjusted measures such as up to the point the Group ceases to have control over that subsidiary.
adjusted operating profit, adjusted net income and adjusted earnings Any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in per share provide additional useful information on underlying trends to respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly Shareholders.
disposed of related assets and liabilities.
This may mean amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to Research and Development profit or loss.
Research expenditure is expensed in the year in which it is incurred.
Non-Controlling Interests Development expenditure is expensed in the year in which it is incurred, On an  basis the non-controlling interest is unless it meets the requirements of IAS 38 to be capitalised and then measured at either fair value or a proportionate share of the acquirees amortised over the useful life of the developed product.
Income Tax Purchases from non-controlling interests are accounted for as Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
transactions with the owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent a result of such transactions.
that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other Revenue comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the Income Statement when the risks and rewards of ownership of the products are Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the passed to the customer.
year, using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction, or substantively enacted, at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable Net Revenue is defined as the amount invoiced to external customers in respect of previous years.
during the year and comprises gross sales net of trade spend, customer allowances for credit notes, returns and consumer coupons.
The Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary methodology and assumptions used to estimate credit notes, returns differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and and consumer coupons are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light their carrying amounts in the consolidated Financial Statements.
of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition and projected market conditions.
of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at Trade spend, which consists primarily of customer pricing allowances, that time.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have placement listing fees and promotional allowances, are governed by been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date and sales agreements with our trade customers retailers and distributors.
are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset or liability is settled.
Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to reflect Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the expected promotional activity and our historical experience.
These future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary accruals are reported within Trade and other payables.
Net Revenue also includes royalty income arising from the licensed use Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments of our brands recognised on an accruals basis.
in subsidiaries except where the investor is able to control the timing of temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary difference Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from Net Revenue.
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Operating Segments Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction are Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker assets against current tax liabilities and where there is an intention to CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and settle these balances on a net basis.
assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Committee.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 112 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if 1 Accounting Policies continued Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets necessary, at each Balance Sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate i Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit CGU, or group of that the carrying amount may not be appropriate.
Freehold land is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
CGUs, to which it relates and is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are ii Brands determined by comparing the assets carrying value with any sale proceeds, and are included in the Income Statement.
Separately acquired brands are shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Brands acquired as part of a business Leases combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date, where they are separately identifiable.
Brands are amortised over their useful Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as economic life, except when their life is determined as being indefinite.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at lease inception at the lower of the assets fair value and the present value of Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired brands is appropriate due to the stable long-term nature of the business and the enduring nature of the minimum lease payments.
Obligations related to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as the brands.
A core element of the Groups strategy is to invest in building its brands through an ongoing programme of product appropriate within borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the Income Statement over the life of the lease so as to innovation and increasing marketing investment.
Within the Group, a brand typically comprises an assortment of base products and more produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Leased property, plant and equipment are innovative products.
Both contribute to the enduring nature of the brand.
The base products establish the long-term positioning of the depreciated on the same basis as owned plant and equipment or over the life of the lease, if shorter.
brand while a succession of innovations attracts ongoing consumer interest and attention.
Indefinite life brands are allocated to the cash Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of generating units to which they relate and are tested annually forimpairment.
ownership are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals net of any related lease incentives are charged against profit on a straightThe Directors also review the useful economic life of brands annually, to line basis over the period of the lease.
ensure that these lives are still appropriate.
If a brand is considered to have a finite life, its carrying value is amortised over that period.
Impairment of Assets Assets that have indefinite lives, including goodwill, are tested annually iii Distribution Rights for impairment at the level where cash flows are considered to be largely independent.
This is at either a CGU level, or as a group of CGUs.
Payments made in respect of product registration, acquired and re-acquired distribution rights are capitalised where the rights comply All assets are tested for impairment if there is an event or circumstance that indicates that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
If an with the above requirements for recognition of acquired brands.
If the registration or distribution rights are for a defined time period, the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
The recoverable amount is the intangible asset is amortised over that period.
If no time period is defined, the intangible asset is treated in the same way as higher of the assets fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated with reference to the future cash flows expected to be generated by an asset or group of assets where cash iv Software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised at cost.
These costs flows are not identifiable to specific assets.
The pre-tax discount rate used in asset impairment reviews is based on a weighted average cost of are amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of seven years for Enterprise Resource Planning systems and five years or less for all other capital for comparable companies operating in similar markets and geographies as the Group including, where appropriate, an adjustment software licences.
for the specific risks associated with the relevant CGU.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost depreciation and impairment, with the exception of freehold land, which is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that comprises materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of overhead expenses based on normal operating capacity required to get is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Except for freehold land and assets under construction, the cost of property, plant and the inventory to its present location and condition.
Inventory valuation is determined on a first in, first out FIFO basis.
Net realisable value equipment is written off on a straight-line basis over the period of the expected useful life of the asset.
For this purpose, expected lives are represents the estimated selling price less applicable selling expenses.
determined within the following limits: Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: Trade Receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life of the lease: and held at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
If there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the full amount of the Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years except for environmental assets which are not more than 20 years.
receivable, an impairment is recognised through the Income Statement.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that a debtor will In general, production plant and equipment and office equipment are enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
written off over ten years or less: motor vehicles and computer equipment over five years or less.
The impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the receivable and the present value of the related estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original interest rate.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 113 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued Employee Share Schemes Cash and Cash Equivalents Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and other deposits option and restricted share schemes vested in accordance with with a maturity of less than three months when deposited.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, bank overdrafts that form The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled an integral part of the Groups cash management, and are repayable on share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the demand, are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group revises Bank overdrafts are included within short-term borrowings in the its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised Borrowings estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any including social security taxes, to the Income Statement over the same difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the period with a corresponding liability recognised.
Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
The proceeds received from the exercise of share options, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activity share premium when the options are exercised.
The Group may use derivatives to manage its exposures to fluctuating interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are initially Pension Commitments recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are Group companies operate defined contribution and funded and subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising unfunded defined benefit pension plans.
the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members of being hedged.
Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are treated defined contribution plans is charged to the Income Statement as as a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
At inception, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item is documented, as is an assessment of the effectiveness of The deficit or surplus recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of the derivative instrument used in the hedging transaction in offsetting defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit changes in the cash flow of the hedged item.
This effectiveness obligation at the Balance Sheet date, less the fair value of the plan assessment is repeated on an ongoing basis during the life of the assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by hedging instrument to ensure that the instrument remains an effective independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The hedge of the transaction.
present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows by the yield on high quality 1.
Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the effective portion of corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the benefits will changes in the fair value is recognised in other comprehensive be paid, and that have a maturity approximating to the terms of the income.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is pension obligations.
The costs of providing these defined benefit plans recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
are accrued over the period of employment.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are recycled to the Income Statement in the period when the hedged item will Past-service costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative The net interest amount is calculated by applying the discounted rate gain or loss existing in other comprehensive income at that time used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the remains in other comprehensive income, and is recognised when the period to the net defined benefit liability asset.
forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, The net pension plan interest is presented as finance income expense.
the cumulative gain or loss in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the Income Statement.
Post-Retirement Benefits Other than Pensions Some Group companies provide post-retirement medical care to their 2.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: these are retirees.
The costs of providing these benefits are accrued over the classified at fair value through profit or loss.
All changes in fair value period of employment and the liability recognised in the Balance Sheet of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
its present value and the fair value of any related asset is deducted.
Net Investment Hedges Provisions Gains and losses on those hedging instruments designated as hedges of Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or the net investments in foreign operations are recognised in other constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than comprehensive income to the extent that the hedging relationship is not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation: effective.
Gains and losses accumulated in the foreign currency and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued at the translation reserve are recycled to the Income Statement when the present value of the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required foreign operation is disposed of.
to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 114 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The Group is subject to tax audits and uncertainties in a number of 1 Accounting Policies continued Share Capital Transactions jurisdictions.
The issues involved can be complex and disputes may take a number of years to resolve.
Each uncertainty is separately When the Group purchases equity share capital, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as assessed and the provision recognised depends on the specific context of each case.
The accounting estimates and judgements a change in equity.
Purchased shares are either held in Treasury, in order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain considered include: Status of the unresolved matter: capital, an equivalent amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled would be transferred from retained earnings to the capital Strength of technical argument and clarity of legislation: External advice: redemption reserve.
Resolution process, past experience and precedents set with the particular taxing authority: Dividend Distribution Dividends to owners of the parent are recognised as a liability in the Agreements previously reached in other jurisdictions on comparable issues: and period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they Statute of limitations.
Management is of the opinion that the carrying values of the provisions made in respect of these matters represent the most accurate Dividend payments are recorded at fair value.
Where non-cash dividend payments are made, gains arising as a result of fair value measurement once all facts and circumstances have been taken into account.
Nevertheless, the final amounts paid to discharge the liabilities remeasurements, are recognised in profit or loss in the same period.
arising either through negotiated settlement or litigation will in all likelihood be different from the provision recognised.
The net liabilities Accounting Estimates and Judgements In the application of the Groups accounting policies the Directors are are included in amounts disclosed in Note 21. required to make a number of estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date, that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussedbelow: The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in Estimates of future business performance and cash generation, discount rates and long-term growth rates supporting the net book which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both amount of indefinite life intangible assets at the Balance Sheet date Note 9.
If the actual results should differ, or changes in expectations current and future periods.
arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely impact operating results.
Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies The following are the critical judgements, that the Directors have made Measurement of intangible assets both in business combinations and other asset acquisitions requires the Group to identify such in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Groups assets.
Assumptions and estimates are made about future cash flows and appropriate discount rates to value identified intangible assets Financial Statements.
The Group recognises legal and regulatory provisions in line with the Note 27.
The Group provides for amounts payable to our trade customers for Groups provisions policy.
The level of provisioning for regulatory civil and or criminal investigation is an issue where management and promotional activity.
Where a promotional activity spans across the year end, an accrual is reflected in the consolidated Financial legal judgement is important Note 17.
These are valued based on the Directors best estimates taking into account all available Statements based on our estimation of customer and consumer uptake during the promotional period and the extent to which information, external advice and historical experience.
The Group has identified matters which may incur liabilities in the temporary promotional activity has occurred.
Details of trade spend accrued as at year end are provided in Note 20. future, but do not recognise these where it is too early to determine the likely outcome or make a reliable estimate Note 19.
The value of the Groups defined benefit pension plan obligations are dependent on a number of key assumptions.
These include The continuing enduring nature of the Groups brands supports the indefinite life assumption of these assets Note 9. assumptions over the rate of increase in pensionable salaries, the discount rate to be applied, the level of inflation and the life The actual tax paid on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that differ across the numerous jurisdictions in which the expectancy of the schemes members.
Details of the key assumptions and the sensitivity of the principal schemes carrying value to changes Group operates.
Assumptions are made in applying these laws to the taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax in the assumptions are set out in Note 22. charge for that period.
Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different to the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be charged or credited to the Income Statement in the period in which it is determined Note 7.
Assumptions are made as to the recoverability of tax assets especially as to whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits in the same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses in future years Note11.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 115 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Operating Segments The Executive Committee is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Executive Committee for the purposes of making strategic decisions and assessing performance.
The Executive Committee considers the business principally from a geographical perspective, but with Food being managed separately given the significantly different nature of this business and the associated risks and rewards.
The Groups geographical segments comprise ENA and DvM.
ENA comprises Europe, Russia CIS, Israel, North America, Australia and New Zealand.
DvM principally comprises North Africa, Middle East excluding Israel and Turkey, Africa, South Asia, North Asia, Latin America, Japan, South Korea and ASEAN.
The geographical segments derive their revenue primarily from the sale of branded products in the Health, Hygiene and Home categories.
Food derives its revenue from food products primarily sold in ENA countries.
The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on Net Revenue from external customers and Adjusted Operating Profit.
Intercompany transactions between operating segments are eliminated.
Finance income and expense are not allocated to segments, as they are managed on a central Group basis.
The segment information provided to the Executive Committee for the operating segments for the year ended 31 December is as follows: ENA DvM Food Total Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m m Net Revenue 6,410 3,070 411 9,891 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 117 60 6 183 Adjusted operating profit 1,978 681 118 2,777 Exceptional items 367 Operating profit 2,410 Net finance expense 16 Profit before income tax 2,394 ENA DvM Food Total Year ended 31 December 2015 m m m m Net Revenue 5,830 2,695 349 8,874 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 104 62 5 171 Adjusted operating profit 1,744 528 102 2,374 Exceptional items 133 Operating profit 2,241 Net finance expense 33 Profit before income tax 2,208 The Executive Committee reviews Net Working Capital by segment and other assets and liabilities on a Group basis.
The split of assets and liabilities by segment provided to the Executive Committee is shown below.
Assets and liabilities not presented to the Executive Committee are shown below as a reconciling item.
ENA DvM Food Total 2016 m m m m Inventories 516 272 24 812 Trade and other receivables 930 624 48 1,602 Total segment assets 1,446 896 72 2,414 Trade and other payables 2,050 1,118 78 3,246 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 116 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Operating Segments continued ENA DvM Food Total 2015 m m m m Inventories 491 208 22 721 Trade and other receivables 785 474 29 1,288 Total segment assets 1,276 682 51 2,009 Trade and other payables 1,745 912 58 2,715 The assets and liabilities are reported based upon the operations of the segment and the physical location of the asset or liability.
There are a number of Group assets and liabilities that are not specifically attributable to one segment.
Reconciliation of these assets and liabilities to total assets or liabilities in the Balance Sheet is shown below: 2016 2015 m m Inventories for operating segments 812 721 Unallocated: Group adjustments 42 40 Total inventories per the Balance Sheet 770 681 Trade and other receivables for operating segments 1,602 1,288 Unallocated: Group items 21 43 Total trade and other receivables per the Balance Sheet 1,623 1,331 Total inventories and trade and other receivables per the Balance Sheet 2,393 2,012 Other unallocated assets 15,626 13,256 Total assets per the Balance Sheet 18,019 15,268 Trade and other payables for operating segments 3,246 2,715 Unallocated: Group items 249 233 Total trade and other payables per the Balance Sheet 3,495 2,948 Other unallocated liabilities 6,098 5,414 Total liabilities per the Balance Sheet 9,593 8,362 Group adjustments to inventory relate to the elimination of intercompany profit in inventory.
Unallocated assets include goodwill and intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred and current tax, available for sale assets, retirement benefit surplus, other receivables, derivative financial assets, and cash and cash equivalents.
Unallocated liabilities include borrowings, provisions for liabilities and charges, current and deferred tax liabilities, other liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
The Company is domiciled in the UK.
The split of Net Revenue from external customers and Non-Current Assets other than available for sale financial assets, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit surplus assets between the UK, the US being the single biggest country outside the country of domicile and that from all other countries is: All other UK US countries Total 2016 m m m m Net Revenue 747 2,648 6,496 9,891 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,927 5,624 5,903 13,454 Property, plant and equipment 154 183 541 878 Other non-current receivables 12 53 16 81 All other UK US countries Total 2015 m m m m Net Revenue 729 2,338 5,807 8,874 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,916 4,710 4,670 11,296 Property, plant and equipment 143 153 434 730 Other non-current receivables 12 38 190 240 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 117 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Operating Segments continued The Net Revenue from external customers reported on a geographical basis above is measured consistently with that in the operating segments.
Major customers are typically large grocery chains, mass markets and multiple retailers.
The Groups customer base is diverse with no single external customer accounting for more than 10% of Net Revenue.
Analysis of Categories The primary analysis within the information provided to the Executive Committee is based on the geographical areas above.
An analysis of Net Revenue by category is given below.
Net Revenue 2016 2015 m m Health 3,332 2,942 Hygiene 4,066 3,589 Home 1,828 1,715 Portfolio Brands including Food 665 628 9,891 8,874 Health, Hygiene, Home and Portfolio Brands categories are all split across the two geographical segments of ENA and DvM.
Food is sold primarily in ENA but is recognised within a separate operating segment.
3 Analysis of Net Operating Expenses 2016 2015 m m Distribution costs 2,457 2,165 Administrative expenses: Research and development 149 140 Other 648 575 Total administrative expenses 797 715 Other net operating income 5 8 Exceptional items 367 133 Net operating expenses 3,616 3,005 Net foreign exchange gains of 9 million 2015: 7 million loss have been recognised through the Income Statement.
These amounts exclude foreign exchange gains and losses recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Exceptional Items 2016 2015 m m South Korea HS issue 300 Acquisition, integration and restructuring costs 67 76 Loss on disposal of Russian hospital business 57 Total exceptional items 367 133 Exceptional items totalling 367 million 2015: 133 million have been recognised during the year.
These relate primarily to the HS issue in South Korea.
A background to this issue is set out in the South Korea HS section of the Strategic Report.
Details of the exceptional costs recognised in 2016, mainly in respect of the Compensation Plan, are set out in this Note.
The Compensation Plan was established by Oxy RB to provide fair compensation to Oxy HS product users categorised by the South Korean government in Rounds 1 and 2 of the South Korean Governments categorisation process as suffering, or having suffered, lung damage which was almost certainly Category I or had a high possibility Category II of being a result of their use of Oxy RBs HS product.
It was designed in consultation with these victims and their families, informed by four overarching values of Fairness, Transparency, Respect and Speed and is aimed at addressing each person according to their own individual circumstances, including those who have previously entered into settlement agreements with us.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 118 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3 Analysis of Net Operating Expenses continued Compensation for Category I and II Oxy HS victims categorised in Rounds 1 and 2 comprises two elements: A payment to reflect mental distress pain and suffering, lost income past and future, past medical, certain legal and other expenses plus interest.
This payment for a victim could be up to approximately KRW 1 billion c. 700k for death or severe disability.
Compensation proposals for victims living with the ongoing effects of the Oxy HS product, include a commitment to cover their future medical costs and care needs which are incurred as a reasonably foreseeable consequence of their HS-related lung condition.
In 2014, Oxy RB announced the creation of a Humanitarian Fund of KRW 5 billion 3 million for HS-affected individuals to be administered in cooperation with two governmental organisations in South Korea.
In April 2016, Oxy RB announced its intention to add another KRW 5 billion 3 million to the fund.
We expect to incur a number of other non-recurring costs in relation to the HS issue.
These include advisers fees, costs in administering the Compensation Plan and costs associated with operation of the local business.
We have classified the expected costs as follows: where we consider the costs to be probable and we are currently able to estimate the quantum of costs, we have provided for them: and where we do not consider the costs to be probable or are currently unable to estimate the quantum or likely outcome of potential future costs, we have disclosed them as a contingent liability.
Exceptional costs recognised in 2016 During 2016, we have charged 300 million to exceptional costs in relation to this issue, comprising of both cash and non-cash items.
These include: Expected compensation payments, including the value of expected future medical costs, to be paid on an as incurred basis where borne by the Group, to Oxy HS Round 1 and 2 victims categorised as Category I or II a total of 183 victims, four of whom have already received settlements from another manufacturer.
97% of these victims have registered for the Compensation Plan.
An estimate of compensation payments and future medical costs for victims who could be categorised as Category I and II Round 3 applicants.
As of 25 January 2017, 353 47% of the total 752 applicants Round 3 cases have been reviewed.
Of them, 53 15% have been recognised as Category I or II HS victims, 49 of whom indicated that they used the Oxy HS product either on its own or in conjunction with another HS product.
The South Korean government has stated its intention to complete categorisation of the remaining Round 3 applicants by the end of 2017.
Legal and other associated costs directly linked to the HS issue including civil and criminal proceedings including both legal fees and potential fines.
On 6 January 2017, the South Korean criminal court found Oxy RB guilty of false labelling under South Koreas Fair Labelling & Advertising Act, a charge which the company did not contest, and fined Oxy RB KRW 150 million 0.1 million.
Two current Oxy RB employees were sentenced to five and seven years imprisonment respectively for occupational negligence and false labelling.
Oxy RBs former General Manager and former Head of R&D were each sentenced to seven years imprisonment for the same offences.
All four individuals were employees of Oxy at the time it was acquired by the Group in 2001.
Some of the conduct that was the object of the criminal prosecution took place prior to the acquisition.
A former General Manager was acquitted of all charges.
These sentences were generally less than the prosecutor had requested.
The current and former employees who were convicted have appealed.
The Prosecutors Office has appealed against i the acquittal of four of the current and former employees of charges of criminal fraud, ii the acquittal of the former General Manager of all charges: and iii the sentences of all those convicted except Oxy RB because the maximum fine was imposed.
Costs associated with the set-up and operation of the Compensation Plan infrastructure.
A provision for the additional amount committed to the Humanitarian Fund in April 2016.
An impairment charge against the carrying value of a number of Oxy RB local brands c. 44 million.
Other directly connected costs of the local business.
The provision does not include any costs associated with the reported 4,059 Round 4 applicants who registered for categorisation between April and December 2016, nor any contributions to a Special Relief Account contemplated by the HS Damage Relief Act passed by the South Korean National Assembly on 20 January 2017.
These are disclosed as a contingent liability, in Note 19.
The remaining 67 million 2015: 76 million of exceptional items relate to the restructuring of the Groups operations, and the integration of acquisitions.
Costs incurred consist primarily of legal and other professional fees, redundancy and business integration costs which have been included within net operating expenses.
In the prior year, a loss of 57 million was recognised on the disposal of Medcom-MP, the entity owning the Russian hospital business.
This included a loss of 33 million arising from the recycling, from equity, of previous exchange losses arising on the consolidation of the legal entity sold.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 119 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 4 Auditors Remuneration During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys Auditor and its associates.
2016 2015 m m Audit services pursuant to legislation Audit of the Groups Annual Report and Financial Statements 2.0 2.0 Audit of the Financial Statements of the Groups subsidiaries 3.9 3.6 Audit related assurance services 0.2 0.2 Total audit and audit-related services 6.1 5.8 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and its associates for other services: Taxation compliance services 0.2 0.1 Taxation advisory services 1.0 1.2 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 All other non-audit services Total non-audit services 1.3 1.4 7.4 7.2 Included within Audit of the Financial Statements of the Groups subsidiaries is nil 2015: 0.2 million in relation to the audit of the Financial Statements of associated pension plans of the Group.
5 Employees Staff Costs 2016 2015 Note m m The total employment costs, including Directors, were: Wages and salaries 969 923 Social security costs 179 158 Other pension costs 22 8 27 Share-based payments 24 66 50 1,222 1,158 Executive Directors aggregate emoluments were 2,356,574 2015: 7,625,435.
Compensation awarded to key management the Executive Committee was: 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 7 17 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 29 22 Termination benefits 37 40 Termination benefits and share-based payments include contractual commitments made to key management in 2016, comprising cash payments and share awards.
Staff Numbers The monthly average number of people employed by the Group, including Directors, during the year was: 2016 2015 000 000 ENA 14.2 15.5 DvM 18.8 18.0 Other 1.7 1.2 34.7 34.7 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 120 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6 Net Finance Expense 2016 2015 m m Finance income Interest income on cash and cash equivalents 42 21 Total finance income 42 21 Finance expense Interest payable on borrowings 47 36 Net pension plan interest 6 8 Amortisation of issue costs of bank loans 4 5 Other finance expense 1 5 Total finance expense 58 54 Net finance expense 16 33 7 Income Tax Expense 2016 2015 m m Current tax 530 483 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 16 92 Total current tax 546 575 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 48 48 Impact of changes in tax rates 36 64 Total deferred tax Note 11 12 112 Income tax expense 558 463 Current tax includes tax incurred by UK entities of 81 million 2015: 75 million.
This is comprised of UK corporation tax of 61 million 2015: 53 million and overseas tax suffered of 20 million 2015: 22 million.
UK current tax is calculated at 20% 2015: 20.25% of the estimated assessable profit for the year, net of relief for overseas taxes where available.
Taxation in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those jurisdictions.
The deferred tax impact of changes in tax rates of 36 million 2015: 64 million primarily relates to the enactment of reductions in the future UK corporation tax rate from 18% to 17%.
This results in a reduction in closing deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Origination and reversal of temporary differences includes adjustment in respect of prior periods of 12 million 2015: 14 million.
The total tax charge on the Groups profits for the year can be reconciled to the notional tax charge calculated at the UK tax rate as follows: 2016 2015 m m Profit before income tax 2,394 2,208 Tax at the notional UK corporation tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.25% 479 447 Effect of: Overseas tax rates 45 145 Movement in provision related to uncertain tax positions 35 51 Unrecognised tax losses 54 5 Withholding and local taxes 22 13 Reassessment of prior year estimates 28 106 Impact of changes in tax rates 36 64 Exceptional items 9 19 Other permanent differences 12 31 Income tax expense 558 463 The effect of overseas tax rates represents the impact of profits arising outside the UK that are taxed at different rates to the UK rate.
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of tax contingencies Note 21 are shown in the movement in provision related to uncertain taxpositions.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 121 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 7 Income Tax Expense continued The unrecognised tax loss arising in 2016 predominantly relates to the tax value of losses arising in South Korea from the HS issue, for which recovery is not anticipated in the foreseeable future.
Reassessment of prior year estimates arose as a result of revised tax filings and differences between final tax return submissions and liabilities accrued in these Financial Statements.
Other permanent differences relate to non-tax deductible expenditure.
The Groups future effective tax rate will continue to be sensitive to the levels of profit arising in those jurisdictions where the applicable tax rate is materially higher or lower than the Groups underlying rate.
Changes in tax legislation and other circumstances that affect tax calculations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
We conduct business operations in a number of countries, and are therefore subject to tax and intercompany pricing laws in multiple jurisdictions, including those relating to the flow of funds between RB and its subsidiaries.
Our effective tax rate in any given financial year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in succeeding financial years, and may be affected by changes in the tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, or the interpretation of such tax laws.
Certain tax positions taken by us are based on industry practice, tax advice and drawing similarities from our facts and circumstances to those in case law.
In particular, international transfer pricing is an area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying facts and circumstances and generally involves a significant degree of judgement.
Changes in tax laws, regulations and related interpretations including those arising as a result of the OECDs base erosion and profit shifting project and from the EUs investigations into potential breach of State Aid rules in respect of tax rulings and increased enforcement actions and penalties may alter the environment in which we do business, and tax planning arrangements are frequently scrutinised by tax authorities worldwide.
We have in the past faced, and may in the future face, audits and challenges brought by tax authorities, and we are involved in ongoing tax investigations in a number of jurisdictions around the world.
If material challenges were to be successful, our effective tax rate may increase, we may be required to modify structures at significant costs to us, we may also be subject to interest and penalty charges and we may incur costs in defending litigation or reaching a settlement.
Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2016 2015 Tax credit Tax credit Before tax charge After tax Before tax charge After tax m m m m m m Net exchange gains losses on foreign currency translation 1,618 1,618 124 124 Losses on cash flow and net investment hedges 158 8 150 34 1 35 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of foreign operations 33 33 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans Note 22 176 38 138 63 17 46 Revaluation of available for sale financial assets 2 2 Other comprehensive income 1,282 46 1,328 62 18 80 Current tax 10 4 Deferred tax Note 11 36 22 46 18 The tax credited charged directly to the Statement of Changes in Equity during the year is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Current tax 14 5 Deferred tax Note 11 4 8 10 13 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 122 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8 Earnings per Share 2016 2015 pence pence Basic earnings per share 260.2 244.4 Diluted earnings per share 256.5 240.9 Adjusted basic earnings per share 306.3 262.4 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 302.0 258.6 Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to owners of the parent 2016: 1,832 million: 2015: 1,743 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 2016: 704,164,106: 2015: 713,063,230.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
The Company has the following categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: Executive Share Awards including Executive Share Options and Executive Restricted Share Scheme Awards and Employee Sharesave Scheme Options.
The options only dilute earnings when they result in the issue of shares at a value below the market price of the share and when all performance criteria if applicable have been met.
As at 31 December 2016 there were nil 2015: 4 million Executive Share Awards excluded from the dilution because the exercise price for the options was greater than the average share price for the year.
2016 2015 Average Average number of number of shares shares On a basic basis 704,164,106 713,063,230 Dilution for Executive Share Awards 9,405,777 9,680,716 Dilution for Employee Sharesave Scheme Options outstanding 730,750 802,516 On a diluted basis 714,300,633 723,546,462 Adjusted earnings Details of the adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Net income attributable to owners of the parent 1,832 1,743 Exceptional items 367 133 Tax effect of exceptional items 42 5 Adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent 2,157 1,871 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 123 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Brands Goodwill Software Other Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 7,938 3,282 97 115 11,432 Additions 25 25 Arising on business combinations 6 6 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 31 15 8 38 At 31 December 2015 7,969 3,303 121 107 11,500 Additions 359 25 384 Arising on business combinations 24 148 172 Disposals 12 44 56 Exchange adjustments 1,197 491 3 2 1,693 At 31 December 2016 9,549 3,942 137 65 13,693 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2015 89 24 23 44 180 Amortisation and impairment charge 3 15 15 33 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 3 5 8 At 31 December 2015 92 21 37 54 204 Amortisation and impairment charge 59 14 6 79 Disposals 12 41 53 Exchange adjustments 5 1 2 1 9 At 31 December 2016 156 22 41 20 239 Net book value At 31 December 2015 7,877 3,282 84 53 11,296 At 31 December 2016 9,393 3,920 96 45 13,454 The amount stated for brands represents the fair value of brands acquired since 1985 at the date of acquisition.
Other includes product registration, distribution rights and capitalised product development costs.
Software includes intangible assets under construction of 26 million 2015: 14 million.
The majority of brands, all of goodwill and certain other intangibles are considered to have indefinite lives for the reasons noted in the Accounting Policies and therefore are subject to an annual impairment review.
A number of small non-core brands are deemed to have a finite life and are amortised accordingly.
During the year, the Group exercised its option to acquire the legal title to intellectual property associated with the collaboration agreement with Bristol Myers Squibb BMS, as described in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013.
The amount capitalised reflects a cash payment of 189 million and a prepayment made in 2013 of 170 million at 2016 exchange rates.
Goodwill arising on business combinations during the year primarily relates to the Hypermarcas acquisition discussed in Note 27.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 124 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued The net book amounts of indefinite and finite life intangible assets are as follows: 2016 2015 Net book amount m m Indefinite life assets: Brands 9,383 7,857 Goodwill 3,920 3,282 Other 45 40 Total indefinite life assets 13,348 11,179 Finite life assets: Brands 10 20 Software 96 84 Other 13 Total finite life assets 106 117 Total net book amount of intangible assets 13,454 11,296 Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are allocated to either individual cash generating units CGUs, or groups of cash generating units together GCGUs.
The goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at the level at which identifiable cash inflows are largely independent.
Generally this is at a GCGU level, but for certain intangible assets this is at a CGU level.
Cash Generating Units After considering all the evidence available, including how brand and production assets generate cash inflows and how management monitors the business, the Directors have concluded that for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets, the Groups GCGUs are as follows: Health, Hygiene, Home, and Food.
An analysis of the net book value of indefinite life assets and goodwill by GCGU is shown below: 2016 2015 Indefinite Indefinite life assets Goodwill Total life assets Goodwill Total GCGU Powerbrands m m m m m m 1 Health Durex, Gaviscon, Mucinex, Nurofen, Scholl, Strepsils 7,182 3,713 10,895 5,937 3,091 9,028 Hygiene Bang, Clearasil, Dettol, Finish, Harpic, Lysol, Mortein, Veet 1,371 162 1,533 1,175 146 1,321 2 Home Air Wick, Calgon, Vanish, Woolite 835 45 880 751 45 796 Food Frenchs 40 40 34 34 9,428 3,920 13,348 7,897 3,282 11,179 1 Within the Health GCGU, the cash flows in relation to certain groups of brands are separately identifiable.
As a result, the carrying value of these brand-related intangible assets, in conjunction with associated property, plant and equipment, have been tested for impairment as CGUs.
This is in addition to the impairment testing over goodwill and indefinite life assets for the wider GCGU.
The CGUs tested separately are shown below, all of which fall under the Health GCGU in the above table.
2 Includes Portfolio Brands other than Food.
2016 2015 Carrying Value of CGU m m Sexual Wellbeing 2,124 2,041 Oriental Pharma 127 118 BMS 355 VMS 914 892 Indefinite life assets relating to the Food GCGU are not considered significant relative to the Groups total indefinite life assets.
As such the disclosures below do not include discussion on the assumptions specific to Food.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 125 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued Annual Impairment Review The annual impairment review of goodwill and indefinite life assets is based on an assessment of each GCGUs or CGUs value in use.
Value in use iscalculated from cash flow projections, based on historical operating results, short-term budgets, and medium-term business plans, which have each been approved by management and covers a five-year period.
These projections exclude any estimated future cash inflows or outflows expected to arise from restructuring not yet implemented.
The value in use calculation is based on the following key assumptions used in the cash flow projections: Net Revenue growth based upon forecast future sales volumes and prices, which take account of the expected impact from committed new product initiatives, geographical expansion and the maturity of the markets in which each GCGU or CGU operates: Gross Margin based on historical experience adjusted for the impact of forecast production costs, cost optimisation initiatives and changes in product mix: and Marketing and other expenditure, reflecting historical experience, expected levels of cost inflation, committed cost saving initiatives and future levels of marketing support required to sustain, grow and further innovate brands.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using the estimated long-term growth rates stated below.
The long-term growth rates applied do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the products and markets in which the GCGU or CGU operates.
Management has assessed the appropriate discount rate for each individual GCGU and CGU.
This has been done using a Weighted Average Cost ofCapital WACC for comparable companies operating in similar markets and geographies as the Group, adjusted for risks specific to each GCGU and CGU.
Due to the wide geographic and product diversification of their respective markets, and the diverse risks associated with a number of GCGUs and CGUs, a pre-tax discount rate of 10% was determined for each of the Health, Hygiene and Home GCGUs as well as the Sexual Wellbeing CGU 2015: 10%.
The VMS and Oriental Pharma CGUs are predominantly concentrated in single markets, being the US and China respectively.
BMS is predominantly concentrated in the Mexican and Brazilian markets.
A pre-tax discount rate of 13% 2015: 13% was therefore applied to VMS, 12% 2015: 12% was applied to Oriental Pharma and 13% was applied to BMS, to reflect the risks specific to thesebusinesses.
2016 2015 Terminal Pre-tax Terminal Pre-tax growth discount growth discount GCGU CGU rate % rate % rate % rate % Health 4 10 4 10 Hygiene 2 10 2 10 Home 1 10 1 10 Oriental Pharma 4 12 4 12 Sexual Wellbeing 4 10 4 10 BMS 4 13 VMS 2 13 3 13 Following the Groups annual impairment review, no impairments have been identified.
Any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts of the Health, Hygiene and Home GCGUs, and the Sexual Wellbeing and VMS CGU, are based would not imply possible impairments.
With a value in use exceeding its carrying value by 100 million 28%, the BMS CGU is sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
The sensitivity of the recoverable amount has been assessed to identify the impact of reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
If all other assumptions were held constant, a reduction in assumed growth rates in the first five years by 20% of those forecast would lead to a reduction in the value in use of this CGU of 54 million.
In addition, a further reduction of 100 bps in the terminal growth rate would result in an additional reduction in the value in use of 35 million.
Applying these sensitivities together would result in the value in use of this CGU exceeding its carrying value by 16 million.
The value in use of the Oriental Pharma CGU exceeds its carrying value by 55 million 43% 2015 equal to carrying value, and as such is also sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
If all other assumptions were held constant, a reduction in assumed growth rates in the first five years by 20% of that forecast would lead to a reduction in the value in use of this CGU of 24 million.
In addition, a further reduction of 100 bps in the terminal growth rate would result in an additional reduction in the value in use of 17 million.
Applying these sensitivities together would result in the value in use of this CGU exceeding its carrying value by 17 million.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 126 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10 Property, Plant and Equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 531 1,190 1,721 Additions 15 139 154 Disposals 10 60 70 Reclassifications 39 39 Exchange adjustments 17 64 81 At 31 December 2015 558 1,166 1,724 Additions 6 173 179 Acquisitions 30 8 38 Disposals 14 50 64 Reclassifications 16 16 Exchange adjustments 80 154 234 At 31 December 2016 676 1,435 2,111 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2015 191 773 964 Charge for the year 30 107 137 Disposals 8 50 58 Impairment losses 5 5 10 Exchange adjustments 8 51 59 At 31 December 2015 210 784 994 Charge for the year 32 116 148 Disposals 12 47 59 Impairment losses 11 10 21 Exchange adjustments 29 100 129 At 31 December 2016 270 963 1,233 Net book value As at 31 December 2015 348 382 730 As at 31 December 2016 406 472 878 The net book amount of assets under construction is 109 million 2015: 57 million.
Assets under construction are included within plant and equipment and are not depreciated.
The reclassification from plant and equipment to land and buildings of 16 million 2015: 39 million shows the transfer of completed assets.
Impairment losses of 9 million 2015: 10 million have been charged to exceptional items Note 3.
Capital expenditure which was contracted but not capitalised at 31 December 2016 was 103 million 2015: 44 million.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 127 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 11 Deferred Tax Accelerated Short-term Retirement capital Intangible temporary benefit allowances assets differences Tax losses obligations Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 7 20 59 11 57 Credited charged to the Income Statement 1 1 17 17 Charged credited to other comprehensive income 1 3 2 Arising on acquisition 7 1 6 Exchange differences 1 4 12 2 11 At 31 December 2016 9 32 88 16 81 Accelerated Short-term Retirement capital Intangible temporary benefit allowances assets differences Tax losses obligations Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 14 2,017 284 11 44 1,692 Credited charged to the Income Statement 3 47 63 5 11 29 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 9 25 34 Charged directly to equity 4 4 Exchange differences 3 333 35 2 7 292 At 31 December 2016 14 2,303 261 8 65 1,983 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Certain deferred tax assets in respect of corporation tax losses and other temporary differences totalling 326 million 2015: 98 million have not been recognised at 31 December 2016 as the likelihood of future economic benefit is not sufficiently assured.
These assets will be recognised if utilisation of the losses and other temporary differences becomes sufficiently probable.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future based on the current repatriation policy of the Group.
12 Inventories 2016 2015 m m Raw materials and consumables 168 144 Work in progress 29 23 Finished goods and goods held for resale 573 514 Total inventories 770 681 The total cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 3,667 million 2015: 3,431 million.
This includes inventory write-offs and losses of 93 million 2015: 51 million.
The Group inventory provision at 31 December 2016 was 84 million 2015: 63 million.
13 Trade and Other Receivables 2016 2015 Amounts falling due within one year m m Trade receivables 1,501 1,190 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 45 26 Trade receivables net 1,456 1,164 Other receivables 127 129 Prepayments and accrued income 40 38 1,623 1,331 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 128 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13 Trade and Other Receivables continued The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2016 2015 m m US dollar 442 359 Euro 287 248 Brazil real 141 89 Sterling 97 109 Other currencies 656 526 1,623 1,331 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
a Trade Receivables Trade receivables consist of amounts due from customers.
The Groups customer base is large and diverse and therefore there is limited concentrations of credit risk.
Credit risk is assessed at a subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other relevant factors.
Individual credit limits are imposed based on those factors.
Balances are considered for impairment on an individual basis in addition by reference to the extent that they become overdue.
As at 31 December 2016, trade receivables of 160 million 2015: 126 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired is as follows: 2016 2015 Amounts past due but not impaired m m Up to 3 months 160 126 At 31 December 2016, a provision for impairment of 45 million 2015: 26 million was recorded against certain trade receivables.
The total amount of receivables against which this provision was recorded is included in the table below.
The total amount of these receivables was not impaired because having given consideration to the nature of the receivables and their historical collection, recovery of the unprovided amount is expected in due course.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 Ageing analysis m m Up to 3 months 26 34 Over 3 months 31 21 57 55 The movement in the provision for impaired receivables consists of increases for additional provisions, offset by receivables written-off and unused provision released back to the Income Statement.
The gross movements in the provision are considered to be insignificant.
b Other Receivables Other Receivables include recoverable sales tax of 74 million 2015: 59 million.
This contains 5 million 2015: 5 million of impaired assets all aged over three months from a broad range of countries within the Group.
Other non-current receivables Non-current other receivables at 31 December 2016 were 81 million 2015: 240 million.
As part of the transaction, a prepayment made in 2013 of 170 million at 2016 exchange rates was capitalised to intangible assets.
In the prior year, the balance included an insurance receivable of 36 million, which was settled during 2016.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 129 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management Financial Instruments by Category Derivatives Fair value Carrying Loans and used for through Available value receivables hedging the P&L for sale total At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Assets as per the Balance Sheet 1 Short-term deposits 3 3 2 Trade and other receivables 1,627 1,627 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 36 125 161 8 Available for sale financial assets 39 39 Cash and cash equivalents 882 882 Other financial Derivatives Fair value liabilities at used for through amortised Carrying hedging the P&L cost value total m m m m Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet 3 Borrowings excluding finance lease obligations and bond 1,584 1,584 4 US$1bn bond two tranches of US$500m at 2.125% and 3.625% respectively 804 804 3 Finance lease obligations 1 1 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 47 11 58 5,6 Trade and other payables 3,317 3,317 5,7 Other non-current liabilities 97 97 Derivatives Fair value Loans and used for through Available Carrying receivables hedging the P&L for sale value total At 31 December 2015 m m m m m Assets as per the Balance Sheet 1 Short-term deposits 2 Trade and other receivables 1,328 1,328 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 38 83 121 Cash and cash equivalents 740 740 Other financial Derivatives Fair value liabilities at used for through amortised Carrying hedging the P&L cost value total m m m m Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet 3 Borrowings excluding finance lease obligations and bond 1,748 1,748 4 US$1bn bond two tranches of US$ 500m at 2.125% and 3.625% respectively 671 671 3 Finance lease obligations 1 1 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 19 3 22 5,6 Trade and other payables 2,801 2,801 5 Other non-current liabilities 2 2 1 These short-term deposits do not meet the requirements to be classified as cash equivalents as they have maturities greater than three months.
They are however highly liquid assets.
2 Prepayments and employee benefit assets are excluded from the trade and other receivables balance as they are out of scope of IFRS 7.
3 The categories in this disclosure are determined by IAS 39.
Borrowings largely relate to Commercial Paper.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had Commercial Paper in issue amounting to US$1,412 million nominal values at rates of between 0.95% and 1.38% with maturities ranging from 4 January 2017 to 15 September 2017, and 500 million nominal values at the rate of negative 0.26% with maturities ranging from 21 February 2017 to 23 February 2017.
Finance leases are outside the scope of IAS 39, but they remain within the scope of IFRS 7.
Therefore finance leases have been shown separately.
4 The fair value of bonds at 31 December 2016 is a liability of 821 million 2015: 683 million.
This value is derived using a quoted market rate in an active market level 1 classification.
5 Social security liabilities and other employee benefit liabilities are excluded as they are out of scope of IFRS 7.
6 Included in trade and other payables is nil 2015: 25 million relating to the acquisition of the remaining shareholding of RB & Manon Business Co. Ltd. 7 Other non-current liabilities principally comprise a new written put-option, related to item 6, over the non-controlling interests of certain Group subsidiaries in China of 94 million 2015: nil.
8 Available for sale financial assets relates to an investment of less than 1% of the shares in issue of China Resources Pharmaceutical Group Limited CRP.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 130 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Except for the US$1,000 million bond, the fair values of other financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost approximate their carrying values.
Within the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy, the bond and available for sale financial assets are classified as level 1, and the derivative financial instruments are classified as level 2.
Fair value for financial instruments held at amortised cost has been estimated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
The fair value measurement hierarchy levels have been defined as follows: 1.
Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices level 2.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data i. e. unobservable inputs level 3.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2016 is a liability of 58 million 2015: 22 million and an asset of 161 million 2015: 121 million.
This value is determined using forward exchange rates derived from market sourced data at the Balance Sheet date, with the resulting valuediscounted back to present value level 2 classification.
There have been no movements of financial instruments between levels 2015: nil.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Group has forward foreign exchange contracts and cash that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements.
a Financial assets Gross amounts Gross of recognised amounts of financial Net amounts of Financial recognised liabilities set off financial assets instruments not financial in the Balance presented in the set off in the Net assets Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet amount As at 31 December 2016 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 161 161 58 103 Cash and cash equivalents 882 882 882 1,043 1,043 58 985 Gross amounts of Gross amounts of Net amounts of Financial recognised recognised financial financial assets instruments not financial liabilities set off in presented in the set off in the Net assets the Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet amount As at 31 December 2015 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 121 121 22 99 Cash and cash equivalents 740 740 740 861 861 22 839 b Financial liabilities Gross amounts Net amounts Gross amounts of recognised of financial Financial of recognised financial assets liabilities instruments not financial set off in the presented in the set off in the Net liabilities Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet amount As at 31 December 2016 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 58 58 58 Bank overdrafts 9 9 9 67 67 58 9 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 131 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Gross amounts of Net amounts of Financial Gross amounts of recognised financial financial liabilities instruments not recognised assets set off in the presented in the set off in the Net financial liabilities Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet amount As at 31 December 2015 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 22 22 22 Bank overdrafts 3 3 3 25 25 22 3 Financial Risk Management The Groups multinational operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that uses foreign currency financial instruments, including debt, and other instruments, to limit the impact of these risks on the financial performance of theGroup.
The Groups financing and financial risk management activities are centralised into Group Treasury GT to achieve benefits of scale and control.
GTmanages financial exposures of the Group centrally in a manner consistent with underlying business risks.
GT manages only those risks and flows generated by the underlying commercial operations and speculative transactions are not undertaken.
The Board of Directors review and agree policies, guidelines and authority levels for all areas of Treasury activity and individually approves significant activities.
GT operates under the close control of the CFO and is subject to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal andexternal.
Market Risk a Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups policy is to align interest costs and operating profit of its major currencies in order to provide some protection against the translation exposure on foreign currency profits after tax.
The Group may undertake borrowings and other hedging methods in the currencies of the countries where most of its assets are located.
It is the Groups policy to monitor and, only where appropriate, hedge its foreign currency transaction exposure.
These transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign currency receipts and payments for goods and services and from the remittances of foreign currency dividends and loans.
The local business units enter into forward foreign exchange contracts with GT to manage these exposures where practical and allowed by localregulations.
GT matches the Group exposures, and hedges the position where possible, using spot and forward foreign currency exchangecontracts.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2016 was 4,614 million payable 2015: 5,606 million payable.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group designated bonds totalling US$1,000 million as the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge relationship.
The hedged risk is the foreign exchange currency risk on the value of the Groups net investment in assets and liabilities denominated in US dollars.
On 21 November 2016, the Group designated commercial paper totalling 500 million as the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge relationship.
This is to hedge the risk of loss in value of the Groups Euro denominated intangible brand assets Durex and Nurofen due to exchange rate fluctuations.
The net gain or loss under these arrangements is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The net effect on other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2016 was a 128 million loss 2015: 49 million loss.
If Sterling strengthens weakens by 5% against the US dollar and Euro, the maximum impact on Shareholders equity due to net investment hedging by US dollar bond and Euro commercial paper would be 43 million and 22 million respectively.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 132 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued The Groups strategy is to minimise Income Statement volatility by monitoring foreign currency balances, external financing, and external hedging arrangements.
The Groups hedging profile is regularly reviewed to ensure it is appropriate and to mitigate these risks as far as possible.
The Group held forward foreign exchange contracts denominated as cash flow hedges primarily in Euro, US dollars, Sterling, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars and Brazilian real.
Notional value of the payable leg resulting from these financial instruments was as follows: 2016 2015 Cash Flow Hedge Profile m m Euro 368 597 US dollars 260 396 Sterling 259 163 Australian dollars 87 118 Brazilian real 86 70 Canadian dollars 70 74 Other 311 405 1,441 1,823 These forward foreign exchange contracts are expected to mature over the period January 2017 to December 2020 2015: January 2016 to March2017.
The ineffective portion recognised in the Income Statement arising from cash flow hedges is immaterial 2015: immaterial.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income on forward exchange contracts in 2016 of 29 million loss 2015: 14 million gain are recognised in the Income Statement in the year or years during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the Income Statement, which is generally within 48 months from the Balance Sheet date.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the Balance Sheet.
In the case of cash flow hedges, these are denominated in a diverse range of currencies, where a fluctuation in one individual currency relationship, with all others held constant, does not have a significant effect on the Income Statement or Shareholders equity.
A fluctuation analysis has been performed for all currencies.
The four largest currency pairs and their potential fluctuations are as Euro Polish zloty, Euro US dollar, US dollar Sterling, and Euro Sterling.
If the Euro had strengthened weakened by 5% against any of the stated currencies, with all other variables held constant, the impact on Shareholders equity by currency pair would have been maximum 33 million, which is in Euro Polish zloty currency pair hedges 2015: 31 million.
As at 31 December 2016, if all other currencies had strengthened weakened by 5% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, this would have had an immaterial effect on the Income Statement or Shareholders equity 2015: immaterial.
The remaining major monetary financial instruments liquid assets, receivables, interest and non-interest bearing liabilities are directly denominated in the functional currency of the Group or are transferred to the functional currency of the local entity through the use of derivatives.
The gains and losses from fair value movements on derivatives held at fair value through the profit or loss, recognised in the Income Statement in 2016 was a 537 million gain 2015: 75 million gain.
b Price risk Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk related to the production or packaging of finished goods, such as oil-related, and a diverse range of other raw materials.
This risk is, however, managed primarily through medium-term contracts with certain key suppliers and is not therefore viewed as being a material risk.
c Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Group has both interest-bearing and non interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group monitors its interest income and expense rate exposure on a regular basis.
The Group manages its interest income rate exposure on its gross financial assets by using a combination of fixed rate term deposits.
Various scenarios are simulated taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions, alternative financing and hedging.
Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on the Income Statement of a defined interest rate shift.
For each simulation, the same interest rate shift is used for all currencies, calculated on a full year and pre-tax basis.
The scenarios are only run for liabilities that represent the major interest-bearing positions.
Based on the simulations performed, the impact on the Income Statement of a 50 basis-point shift in interest rates would be a maximum increase of 7 million 2015: 5 million or decrease of 7 million 2015: 5 million, respectively for the liabilities covered.
The simulation is done on a periodic basis to verify that the maximum loss simulated is within the limit given by management.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 133 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued 2. Credit Risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers.
The credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed in Note 13.
Financial institution counterparties are subject to approval under the Groups counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to financial institutions with a BBB rating or above.
The Group uses BBB and higher rated counterparties to manage risk, and operationally only uses sub BBB rated counterparties by exception.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit defined within the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the Board of Directors.
Derivative financial instruments are only traded with counterparties approved in accordance with the approved policy.
Derivative risk is measured using a risk weighting method.
The Group has counterparty risk from asset positions held with financial institutions.
This is comprised of short-term investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives positions as stated on the face of the Balance Sheet.
For risk management purposes the Group assesses the exposure to major financial institutions by looking at the deposits, cash and cash equivalents and 5% of derivative notional position.
Liquidity Risk Cash flow forecasting is performed by the local business units and on an aggregated basis by GT.
GT monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
Funds over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by the local businesses are generally remitted to GT.
The Group uses the remittances to settle obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the event of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments issued by institutions with a BBB rating or better.
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.
The Group has bilateral credit facilities with high quality international banks.
All of thesefacilities have similar or equivalent terms and conditions, and have a financial covenant, which is not expected to restrict the Groups futureoperations.
At the end of 2016, the Group had, in addition to its long-term debt of 804 million 2015: 671 million, committed borrowing facilities totalling 3,500 million 2015: 3,500 million, of which 3,500 million exceeded 12 months maturity 2015: 3,500 million.
Of the total facilities at the year end, nil 2015: nil was utilised.
The committed borrowing facilities, together with available uncommitted facilities and central cash and investments, are considered sufficient to meet the Groups projected cash requirements.
The undrawn committed facilities available, in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met at the Balance Sheet date, were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Undrawn committed borrowing facilities: Expiring within one year Expiring between one and two years Expiring after more than two years 3,500 3,500 3,500 3,500 All borrowing facilities are at floating rates of interest.
The facilities have been arranged to cover general corporate purposes including support for commercial paper issuance.
All facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 134 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Headroom between net debt and available facilities at 31 December 2016 was 2,109 million 2015: 1,880 million.
The Groups borrowing limit at 31 December 2016 calculated in accordance with the Articles of Association was 67,949 million 2015: 63,399 million.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and the derivatives which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the Balance Sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date, including interest to be paid.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over Total 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Commercial paper 1,570 1,570 Bonds 930 23 428 44 435 Other borrowings 25 25 Trade payables 1,243 1,243 Other payables 2,170 2,073 97 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over Total 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2015 m m m m m Commercial paper 1,712 1,712 Bonds 799 20 20 383 376 Other borrowings 43 43 Trade payables 981 981 Other payables 1,822 1,820 2 The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period between the Balance Sheet and the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2016 m m m m Forward exchange contracts Outflow 4,598 6 10 Inflow 4,690 8 14 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2015 m m m m Forward exchange contracts Outflow 5,602 4 Inflow 5,693 4 4.
Capital Management The Group considers capital to be net debt plus total equity.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, short-term available for sale financial assets and financing derivative financial instruments Note 16.
Total equity includes share capital, reserves and retained earnings as shown in the Group Balance Sheet.
2016 2015 m m Net debt Note 16 1,391 1,620 Total equity 8,426 6,906 9,817 8,526 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 135 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In maintaining an appropriate capital structure and providing returns for Shareholders, the Company provided returns to Shareholders in 2016 in the form of dividends and the buyback of shares refer to Notes 28 and 23 respectively.
The Group monitors net debt and at year end the Group had net debt of 1,391 million 2015: 1,620 million.
The Group seeks to pay down net debt using cash generated by the business to maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility.
15 Cash and Cash Equivalents 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 316 334 Short-term bank deposits 566 406 Cash and cash equivalents 882 740 The Group operates in a number of territories where there are either foreign currency exchange restrictions, or where it is difficult for the Group to extract cash readily and easily in the short-term.
As a result, 120 million 2015: 65 million of cash included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted for use by the Group, yet available for use in the relevant subsidiarys day-to-day operations.
16 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 2016 2015 Current m m 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 25 42 2 Commercial paper 1,559 1,706 Finance lease obligations 1 1 1,585 1,749 2016 2015 Non-current m m Bonds 804 671 1.
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies: all are unsecured and bear interest based on the relevant LIBOR equivalent.
Commercial paper was issued in US dollars and Euros, is unsecured and bears interest based on the relevant LIBOR equivalent.
2016 2015 Maturity of debt m m Bank loans and overdrafts repayable: Within one year or on demand 25 42 Other borrowings repayable: Within one year: Commercial paper 1,559 1,706 Finance leases 1 1 Between two and five years: Bonds 402 337 Over five years: Bonds 402 334 2,364 2,378 Gross borrowings unsecured 2,389 2,420 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 136 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16 Financial Liabilities Borrowings continued 2016 2015 Analysis of net debt m m Cash and cash equivalents 882 740 Overdrafts 9 3 Borrowings excluding overdrafts 2,380 2,417 Short-term investments 3 Derivative financial instruments 113 60 Net debt at end of year 1,391 1,620 2016 2015 Reconciliation of net debt m m Net debt at beginning of year 1,620 1,543 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 73 148 Proceeds from borrowings 469 23 Repayment of borrowings 695 165 Purchase of short-term investments 3 Exchange and other movements 73 71 Net debt at end of year 1,391 1,620 17 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Legal Restructuring Other Total provisions provisions provisions provisions m m m m At 1 January 2015 201 13 176 390 Charged to the Income Statement 18 33 24 75 Charged to equity 800 800 Separate recognition of related insurance receivable 36 36 Utilised during the year 95 13 815 923 Released to the Income Statement 18 16 34 Exchange adjustments 1 1 At 31 December 2015 141 33 170 344 Charged to the Income Statement 264 23 12 299 Charged to equity 702 702 Utilised during the year 90 33 806 929 Released to the Income Statement 2 8 10 Exchange adjustments 14 1 4 19 At 31 December 2016 329 22 74 425 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2016 2015 m m Current 251 229 Non-current 174 115 425 344 Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Legal provisions of 329 million 2015: 141 million include exceptional legal provisions of 277 million 2015: 116 million in relation to a number of historic regulatory matters in a number of markets, predominantly the HS issue in South Korea Note 3.
The restructuring provision relates principally to business integration costs, the majority of which is expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions include obligations of the Group to acquire its own equity ordinary shares of nil 2015: 100 million within one year, and environmental and other obligations throughout the Group, the majority of which are expected to be used within five years.
Provisions to acquire equity ordinary shares are charged to equity.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 137 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 18 Operating Lease Commitments 2016 2015 Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases due m m Within one year 48 49 Later than one and less than five years 124 95 After five years 29 9 201 153 Operating lease rentals charged to the Income Statement in 2016 were 64 million 2015: 60 million.
As at 31 December 2016, total amounts expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-lease arrangements were nil 2015: 1 million.
Amounts credited to the Income Statement in respect of sub-lease arrangements were 1 million 2015: 1 million.
19 Contingent Liabilities and Assets The Group is involved in a number of civil and or criminal investigations by government authorities as well as litigation proceedings and has made provisions for such matters where appropriate.
Where it is too early to determine the likely outcome of these matters, or to make a reliable estimate, the Directors have made no provision for such potential liabilities.
We noted in our 2015 Annual Report and 2016 interim announcements that the Group was involved in ongoing investigations by the US Department of Justice DOJ and the US Federal Trade Commission and related litigation proceedings arising from certain matters relating to the RB Pharmaceuticals business prior to its demerger in December 2014 to form Indivior PLC and may incur liabilities in relation to such matters.
These investigations and related proceedings are continuing and we are in active discussions with the DOJ.
The Group is cooperating with the relevant agencies and remains committed to ensuring that these investigations and related proceedings are concluded or resolved satisfactorily.
The outcome for the Group in relation to ultimate resolution and or cost at this stage remains uncertain.
From time to time, the Group is involved in discussions in relation to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the world.
Where appropriate, the Directors make provisions based on their assessment of each case.
HS South Korea As set out in Note 3 on exceptional items, provision has been made for certain costs arising as a result of the HS issue, including costs arising fromcompensating Oxy HS category I and II victims classified within Rounds 1, 2 and 3 of the Korean Centre for Disease Control KCDC classification process.
There are, in addition, a number of further costs income relating to the HS issue that are either not able to be estimated or quantified or are considered not probable at the current time.
Round 4 applicants: The South Korean government opened Round 4 to new applicants on 22 April 2016 for an indefinite period.
As of 13 January 2017, the Ministry of Environment MoE reported it had received 4,059 applications to participate in Round 4.
Because no categorisation has been published, we are currently unable to determine how many applicants may be eligible for compensation through the Compensation Plan.
The MoE has stated its intention to complete and announce the results of the review by the end of 2017.
We note that the recognition of HS victims as Category I or II has steadily declined, from 48% in Round 1 to 30% for Round 2, and to date, 15% for the two tranches of categorisations released in respect of Round 3.
Costs associated with the wider HS issue: We are considering how best to contribute to addressing the wider HS issue including contributions to a Special Relief Account contemplated by the HS Damage Relief Act the Act passed on 20 January 2017.
The Act, among other things, requires South Korean Government Agencies to establish and operate a Special Relief Account for the benefit of certain HS victims, funded through contributions by HS manufacturers and ingredient suppliers the Account.
The size of the contributions will be determined through the application of a formula, the full details of which are still to be determined through secondary legislation that has not yet been published.
The Act contemplates an initial Account of KRW 125 billion 84 million towards which HS manufacturers will be required to contribute collectively KRW 100 billion 67 million.
The Act provides that the maximum size of the Account will be KRW 200 billion 134 million.
Potential recoveries from other HS manufacturers: Oxy RB has committed to compensating Category I and II Oxy HS victims from Rounds 1 and 2 in full under the terms of our Compensation Plan, even if they used other manufacturers HS products in conjunction with that of Oxy, taking into account the delay that had occurred.
Of the 183 Oxy RB Round 1 and 2, Category I and II victims, approximately 50 used both Oxy: and at least one other PHMG HS manufacturers product.
For these multi-user cases we are seeking to recover an element of compensation costs from the relevant other HS manufacturer.
Oxy RB has yet to agree a fair recovery mechanism with the other HS manufacturers and have therefore not recognised any potential receivable.
We continue to assess and, where appropriate, pursue rights which Oxy RB may have to recover sums from other involved parties.
Given the high profile and complex nature of this issue, rules and regulations to be determined under the Act and other legal or governmental proposals or developments in South Korea may give rise to further financial liability for RB.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 138 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Contingent Liabilities and Assets continued Reports by the United Nations Report of the Special Rapporteur on the implications for human rights of the environmentally sound management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and Report of the Special Rapporteur on the implications for human rights of the environmentally sound management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes on its mission to the Republic of Korea and by a special committee of the South Korean National Assembly Report on the Results of the National Assembly Investigation for Fact, Finding, Injury Relief and Reoccurrence Prevention Regarding the Humidifier Sanitizer Incident have identified multiple causes of this tragedy.
Both reports identify the role of government, of ingredient manufacturers, and private label suppliers as contributing to the tragedy.
In addition, given the elapse of time since relevant HS products were used by consumers from seventeen to six years ago, it is difficult to demonstrate which products contributed to harm caused to victims.
We also believe that victims should be provided with a single, consistent and readily accessible source of compensation which also covers uncertain long-term medical needs, regardless of which products they used, and whether they can demonstrate this.
We believe this requires a single, industry-wide approach to compensation, funded fairly by all the contributors to this tragedy.
We are working hard to try to find such an approach to compensating Category I and II victims for Round 4 with the South Korean government, other manufacturers and other relevant stakeholders.
20 Trade and Other Payables 2016 2015 m m Trade payables 1,243 981 Other payables 128 159 Other tax and social security payable 121 97 Accruals 2,003 1,711 3,495 2,948 Included within accruals is 624 million 2015: 526 million in respect of amounts payable to our trade customers for trade spend.
In addition to US employee related payables of 33 million 2015: 25 million, within other non-current liabilities is a financial liability of 94 million.
This liability is in respect of the present value of the expected redemption amount of a written put option granted to the non-controlling interest of certain Group subsidiaries in China Note 26.
The amortised cost of the liability is subject to estimation of the future performance of certain Group products.
Future changes in estimation would result in the remeasurement of the liability through the income statement.
21 Current and Non-current Tax Liabilities 2016 2015 m m Current tax liabilities 12 91 Non-current tax liabilities 740 559 Total current and non-current tax liabilities 752 650 Included in Total current and non-current tax liabilities is an amount of 756 million 2015: 619 million relating to tax contingencies primarily arising in relation to transfer pricing and financing.
These balances are subject to significant management judgement.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to do so.
The Accounting Estimates and Judgements on page 114 describe the significant judgements made in estimating the impact of uncertain taxprovisions.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 139 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments Plan Details The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans around the world covering many of its employees, which are principally funded.
The Groups most significant defined benefit pension plan UK is a final salary plan, which closed to new entrants in 2005.
Trustees of the plan are appointed by the Group, active members and pensioner membership, and are responsible for the governance of the plan, including paying all administrative costs and compliance with regulations.
The plan is funded by the payment of contributions to the plans Trust, which is a separate entity from the rest of the Group.
The Group also operates a number of other post-retirement plans in certain countries.
The major plan is in the US US Retiree Health Care Plan, where salaried participants become eligible for retiree health care benefits after they reach a combined age and years of service rendered figure of70, although the age must be a minimum of 55.
This plan closed to new members in 2009.
A Benefits Committee of the plan is appointed by the Group, and is responsible for the governance of the plan, including paying all administrative costs and compliance with regulations.
The following table provides details of membership for all plans in the two principal territories: Plan details at last valuation date UK US Active Participants: Number of members 250 1,685 Proportion of funding liability 12% 28% Total pensionable salary roll 10.9m 48.1m Participants with deferred benefits: Number of members 5,115 2,746 Proportion of funding liability 37% 29% Total deferred pensions at date of leaving plan 17.9m 3.0m Participants receiving benefits: Number of members 6,807 4,143 Proportion of funding liability 51% 43% Total pensions in payment 44.2m 8.8m For the principal UK plan, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out on a triennial basis.
The most recent valuation was carried out at 5 April 2016.
The Group has agreed that it will aim to eliminate the pension plan Technical Provisions deficit in the UK and Ireland by the end of 2020.
Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis and the current agreed ongoing contribution rate is 75.5% of pensionable salaries in the UK along with annual deficit reduction contributions of 25 million.
It is expected that contributions in 2017 will be 33 million to the UK defined benefit plan.
The funding agreement has given rise to an additional liability on the Balance Sheet of 36 million the other UK schemes operate under a similar framework and there has been a similar reduction in Net Assets totalling 27 million, giving an overall 63 million for all UK schemes.
This additional liability has been recognised after considering the Pension Scheme Trust Deed and Rules and the requirements of IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The Group considers that the contribution rates set, and any future further contributions in excess of the contribution rate, will be sufficient to eliminate the deficit over the agreed period.
For the US Retiree Health Care Plan, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out at on an annual basis.
The most recent valuation was carried out at 1 January 2016.
Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis with contributions made equal to the claims made each year.
It is expected that contributions in 2017 will be 7 million to the Plan.
For the purpose of IAS19 the projected unit valuation method was used for the UK and US plans, as per the principal UK plan triennial valuation results at 5 April 2016 and the 1 January 2016 US plan valuation to 31 December 2016.
The UK plans have a weighted average duration of the deferred benefit obligation of 18.6 years 2015: 17.6 years.
Significant Actuarial Assumptions The significant actuarial assumptions used in determining the Groups net liability for the two major plans as at 31 December were: 2016 2015 US US UK Medical UK Medical % % % % Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 5.6 3.3 Rate of increase in deferred pensions during deferment 3.4 3.1 Rate of increase in pension payments 3.2 2.9 Discount rate 2.6 4.0 3.8 4.2 Inflation assumption RPI 3.6 3.3 Annual medical cost inflation 5.08.5 5.08.5 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 140 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory.
The expected lifetime of a participant aged 60 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be age 60 in 15 years 20 years in the US are detailed below: 2016 2015 UK US UK US years years years years Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond 60: Male 29.0 25.2 28.6 25.7 Female 29.9 27.4 30.6 27.9 Number of years a future pensioner is expected to live beyond 60: Male 30.7 27.0 30.4 27.5 Female 31.6 29.2 32.4 29.7 For the principal UK plan, the mortality assumptions were based on the standard SAPS mortality table 2NMA for males scaled by 85% and table 2NFA for females scaled by 100%.
Allowance for future improvements is made by adopting the 2015 edition of the CMI series with a long-term trend of 1.5% per annum.
For the US plan the mortality assumptions were determined using the RP-2014 Total Employee and Health Annuitant Mortality Tables rolled back to 2006 and projected with Mortality Improvement Scale MP-2016.
Amounts Recognised on the Balance Sheet The amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Balance Sheet obligations for: UK 84 US Medical 108 122 Other 169 135 Liability on Balance Sheet 361 257 Balance Sheet assets for: UK 33 Other 36 30 Asset on Balance Sheet 36 63 Net pension liability 325 194 The funded and unfunded amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are determined as follows: 2016 2015 UK US Medical Other Total UK US Medical Other Total m m m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 1,642 373 2,015 1,322 302 1,624 Fair value of plan assets 1,621 381 2,002 1,355 321 1,676 Surplus deficit of funded plans 21 8 13 33 19 52 Present value of unfunded obligations 108 141 249 122 124 246 Irrecoverable surplus 63 63 Net pension asset liability 84 108 133 325 33 122 105 194 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 141 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Group plan assets are comprised as follows: 2016 2015 UK US Medical Other Total UK US Medical Other Total m m m m m m m m Equities quoted 382 217 599 407 166 573 Government bonds 772 77 849 521 21 542 Corporate bonds 316 61 377 266 57 323 Real Estate property unquoted 141 16 157 150 1 151 Other assets unquoted 10 10 20 11 76 87 Fair value of plan assets 1,621 381 2,002 1,355 321 1,676 The movement in the Groups net deficit is as follows: Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets UK US Medical Other Total UK US Medical Other Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 1,400 145 417 1,962 1,339 311 1,650 Current service cost 8 2 12 22 Curtailment gains 19 19 Interest expense income 48 6 10 64 46 10 56 56 11 22 67 46 10 56 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 35 6 29 Gain loss from changes in demographic assumptions 9 2 7 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 75 5 1 81 Experience gains losses 5 1 2 4 80 15 3 92 35 6 29 Exchange differences 10 2 12 8 8 Contributions employees Contributions employers 59 7 4 70 Payments from plans: Benefit payments 54 7 18 79 54 7 18 79 At 31 December 2015 1,322 122 426 1,870 1,355 321 1,676 Current service cost 6 2 11 19 Curtailment gains 37 1 38 Interest expense income 49 6 16 71 51 14 65 55 29 26 52 51 14 65 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 226 9 235 Gain loss from changes in demographic assumptions 3 2 7 2 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 384 1 5 390 Experience gains losses 53 3 6 44 328 2 18 348 226 9 235 Exchange differences 20 62 82 51 51 Contributions employees Contributions employers 52 7 4 63 Payments from plans: Benefit payments 63 7 18 88 63 7 18 88 As at 31 December 2016 1,642 108 514 2,264 1,621 381 2,002 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 142 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Amounts Recognised in the Income Statement The charge for the year ended 31 December is shown below: 2016 2015 1 Income Statement charge credit included in operating profit for : m m Defined contribution plans 27 24 Defined benefit plans net charge credit excluding interest UK 6 8 US Medical 35 17 Other 10 12 Total pension costs recognised in operating profit Note 5 8 27 Income Statement charge included in finance expense Note 6 6 8 Income Statement charge included in profit before income tax 14 35 2 Remeasurement losses gains for : UK 102 45 US Medical 2 15 Other 9 3 113 63 1 The Income Statement charge included within operating profit includes current service cost, past service costs and gains and losses on settlement and curtailment 2 Remeasurement losses gains exclude 63 million recognised in OCI for irrecoverable surplus.
Sensitivity of Significant Actuarial Assumptions The sensitivity of the UK defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions is shown below: 2016 Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase 0.1% Decrease by 1.9% RPI increase Increase 0.1% Increase by 0.5% Life expectancy Members younger by 1 year Increase by 4.5% 2015 Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase 0.1% Decrease by 1.8% RPI increase Increase 0.1% Increase by 1.4% Life expectancy Members younger by 1 year Increase by 2.3% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Impact of Medical Cost Trend Rates A one percent change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: Impact on defined benefit obligation 2016 2015 1% 1% 1% 1% m m m m Effect on service cost and interest cost 1 1 Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 19 15 Risk and Risk Management Through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset Volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Both the UK and US plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term.
As the plans mature, the Group intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities.
All the UK plans have agreed with the company a plan to fide-risk the investment strategy of the plans at a pace that is commensurate with a planned return to full funding over a reasonable timescale.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 143 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued The fide-risking plan provides for a proportion of the investment portfolio to move from equity holdings to government and corporate bonds over time.
The corporate bonds are global securities with an emphasis on the UK and US.
However, the Group believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Groups long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Changes in Bond Yields: A decrease in government and corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation Risk: Some of the Groups pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
The majority of the plans assets are either unaffected by fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with equities inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
In the US plans, the pensions in payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
Life Expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member.
Whilst the plans allow for an increase in life expectancy, increases above this assumption will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
This is particularly significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
Change in Regulations: The Group is aware that future changes to the regulatory framework may impact the funding basis of the various plans in the future.
The Groups pensions department monitors the changes in legislation and analyses the risks as and when they occur.
Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
A large portion of assets consists of quoted equities and quoted bonds, although the Group also invests in property, and cash.
The Group believes that quoted equities offer the best returns over the long-term with an acceptable level of risk.
The Trustees of all the UK funds have moved the overwhelming majority of their assets to low cost investment funds in consultation with the Company whilst maintaining a prudent diversification.
23 Share Capital Equity ordinary Nominal shares value Issued and fully paid number m At 1 January 2015 736,535,179 74 At 31 December 2015 736,535,179 74 At 1 January 2016 736,535,179 74 At 31 December 2016 736,535,179 74 The holders of ordinary shares par value 10p are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Parent Company.
Allotment of Ordinary Shares and Release of Treasury Shares During the year nil ordinary shares 2015: nil ordinary shares were allotted and 3,662,122 ordinary shares were released from Treasury 2015: 3,111,173 to satisfy vestings exercises under the Groups various share schemes as follows: 2016 2015 Number Consideration Number Consideration Ordinary shares of 10p of shares m of shares m Executive Share Options exercises 2,139,330 72 1,532,150 45 Restricted Shares Awards vesting 1,261,616 530,992 Total under Executive Share Option and Restricted Share Schemes 3,400,946 72 2,063,142 45 Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan vesting 9,216 23,270 Savings-Related Share Option Schemes exercises 251,960 7 1,024,761 29 Total 3,662,122 79 3,111,173 74 Market Purchases of Shares During 2016 the Company purchased 11,658,939 equity ordinary shares in accordance with its share buyback programme 2015: 13,615,832, all of which are held as Treasury shares.
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was 798 million 802 million including stamp duty, which has been deducted from Shareholders equity 2015: 804 million including stamp duty.
Proceeds received from the reissuance of Treasury shares to exercise share options were 79 million 2015: 74 million.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 144 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24 Share-Based Payments The Group operates a number of incentive schemes, including a share option scheme, a restricted share scheme, and other share award schemes.
All schemes are equity settled.
The charge for share-based payments for the year was 66 million 2015: 50 million.
Executive Share Awards Executive share awards, comprising both Executive Share Options and Restricted Share Awards, are awarded to the Top400 Management Group.
Executive Share Options are awarded at an exercise price determined on grant date and become payable on exercise following satisfaction of performance criteria.
Restricted Share Awards entitle the recipient to receive shares at no cost following satisfaction of the following performancecriteria.
For awards granted before December 2012: Adjusted earnings per share growth over three years % 6% 6% 7% 8% 9 Proportion of awards vesting % Nil 40% 60% 80% 100% For awards granted in December 2013 and thereafter: Adjusted earnings per share growth over three years % 6% 6% Between 6% and 10% 10% Proportion of awards vesting % Nil 20% Straightline vesting between 20% and 100% 100% The cost is spread over the three years of the performance period.
For Executive Committee and Top40 members, vesting conditions must be met over the three-year period and are not retested.
For remaining Top400 members the targets can be retested after four or five years.
If any target has not been met any remaining shares or options which have not vested will lapse.
Other Share Awards Other share awards represent SAYE Schemes offered to all staff within the relevant geographic area and a number of Senior Executive Share Ownership Policy Plan SOPP awards.
Other share awards have contractual lives of between three and eight years and are generally not subject to any vesting criteria other than the employees continued employment.
Individual tranches of these other share awards are not material for detailed disclosure and therefore have been aggregated in the tables below.
Modifications to Share Awards The Remuneration Committee approved modifications to all unexercised share schemes in December 2014 following the demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals to compensate for the loss of scheme value.
For SAYE schemes this was in the form of a one-off payment.
For executive share awards this included an adjustment to shares under the amount of each grant, and the lowering of exercise price, where applicable.
There is no change to the IFRS fair value charge as a result of these modifications.
Summary of Shares Outstanding All outstanding Executive and Other share awards as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are included in the tables below which analyse the charge for 2016 and 2015.
The Group has used the Black-Scholes model to calculate the fair value of one award on the date of the grant of theaward.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 145 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 24 Share-Based Payments continued Table 1: Fair value The most significant awards are share options and restricted shares, details of which have been provided below.
Options outstanding at 31 December 2016 that could have been exercised at that date were 3,727,376 2015: 3,826,583 with a weighted average exercise price of 32.49 2015: 27.92.
The assumptions made within the valuation calculation with respect to the achievement of performance criteria are based on the Directors expectations in light of the Groups business model and relevant published targets.
Under the terms of the schemes, early exercise may only be granted in exceptional circumstances and therefore the effect of early exercise is not incorporated into the calculation.
The calculation also assumes that there will be no leavers in the following year.
No material modifications have been made to these calculations in 2016 or 2015 for the purposes of the valuation.
An estimate of future volatility is made with reference to historical volatility over a similar time period to the performance period or the contractual life as appropriate.
Historical volatility is calculated based on the annualised standard deviation of the Groups daily share price movement, being an approximation to the continuously compounded rate of return on the share.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payment transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.
The contribution in 2016 was 51 million 2015: 51 million.
The weighted average share price for the year was 68.77 2015: 58.81.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 148 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24 Share-Based Payments continued Options and Restricted Shares Granted During the Year Options and restricted shares granted during the year which may vest or become exercisable at various dates between 2017 and 2022 are asfollows: Price to be Number of paid shares under Executive share option and restricted share schemes option Reckitt Benckiser 2015 Long-term Incentive Plan share options 67.68 3,200,000 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan restricted shares 1,623,150 Reckitt Benckiser Group Senior Executive 2007 Share Ownership Policy Plan 24,000 Total 4,847,150 Savings-related share option schemes UK Scheme 58.86 178,122 US Scheme 58.86 94,583 Overseas Scheme 41.88 2,461 Total 275,166 Options and Restricted Shares Outstanding at 31 December 2016 Options and restricted shares which have vested or may vest at various dates between 2017 and 2021 are as follows: Price to be paid Number of shares under option Executive share option and restricted share schemes From To 2016 2015 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2006 Annual Grant options 21.95 22.57 113,346 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 Annual Grant options 26.54 67.68 15,088,622 15,901,584 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 Annual Grant restricted shares 5,688,660 6,369,315 Reckitt Benckiser Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan 170,000 166,000 20,947,282 22,550,245 Price to be paid Number of shares under option Savings-related share option schemes From To 2016 2015 UK Scheme 16.90 58.86 687,635 687,953 US Scheme 22.88 58.86 323,495 382,185 Overseas Scheme 21.95 41.88 944,934 1,058,195 Total 1,956,064 2,128,333 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 149 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 25 Other Reserves Foreign currency Hedging translation Total other reserve reserve reserves m m m Balance at 1 January 2015 4 824 820 Other comprehensive income expense Gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 14 14 Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax 124 124 Losses on net investment hedges 49 49 33 33 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on demerger of subsidiary Total other comprehensive income expense for the year 14 140 126 Balance at 31 December 2015 18 964 946 Other comprehensive expense income Losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax 22 22 Net exchange gains on foreign currency translation, net of tax 1,618 1,618 Losses on net investment hedges 128 128 Total other comprehensive expense income for the year 22 1,490 1,468 Balance at 31 December 2016 4 526 522 The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedge transactions that are extant at year end.
The foreign currency translation reserve contains the accumulated foreign exchange differences from the translation of the Financial Statements of the Groups foreign operations arising when the Groups entities are consolidated.
The reserve also contains the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net exposure in a foreign currency.
26 Related Party Transactions RB & Manon Business Co. Ltd Manon The Group completed new arrangements with the non-controlling Shareholders of Manon, agreeing to terminate the existing arrangement in line with the forward contract entered into in 2011.
RB paid consideration totalling 27 million to the non-controlling Shareholders.
An additional settlement amount of 12 million was also paid to the non-controlling Shareholders in 2015, of which 4 million was included within profit and loss in the current year, and 8 million in the prior year.
Under the terms of the new arrangements, the non-controlling Shareholders agreed to invest in two entities, RB China Trading Ltd and RB & Manon Business Ltd, thereby acquiring from RB 20% and 25% stakes in these entities respectively, whilst retaining their 24.95% stake in Manon, for a combined consideration of 27 million.
As part of the new arrangements, the parties are subject to symmetrical put and call options over the non-controlling Shareholdings, exercisable together after a period of six years, with possible extensions available at the agreement of the parties.
The present value of the put option at year end was a liability of 94 million.
Indivior PLC Subsequent to the demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals on 23 December 2014, the Group continues to lease part of a building to, and provide operational services to, Indivior PLC.
The transitional services between the Group and Indivior PLC are on an arms length basis.
The amount included in other operating income in respect of these services is 5 million 2015: 8 million.
Certain outstanding balances, totalling 6 million, were settled with Indivior during the period.
These related to adjustments in the final UK corporation tax liabilities settled on behalf of Indivior by Reckitt Benckiser Plc.
Adrian Hennah, the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc CFO, also sat on the Board of Directors in Indivior PLC until his resignation in May 2016.
Rupert Bondy, SVP General Counsel and Company Secretary of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc was also a director of Indivior PLC until he resigned from the Board on 30 September 2016.
Other The Group has related party relationships with its Directors and key management personnel Note 5 and pension schemes Note 22.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 150 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27 Acquisitions and Disposals On 3 October 2016, the acquisition of 100% shareholding in Nances Holdings S. A completed with a purchase consideration of BRL 671 million.
Hypermarcas is the leading Brazilian condom manufacturer, through its three brands Jontex, Olla and Lovetex.
These brands will sit alongside the RB Powerbrand Durex to create a unique portfolio of brands in the sexual wellbeing category.
Their addition will immediately transform RBs sexual wellbeing category in Brazil.
These brands will benefit from RBs strong innovation, brand equity investment and go-to-market capabilities.
The transaction has been accounted for by the acquisition method.
All assets and liabilities were recognised at the following provisional fair values.
The full consideration transferred was paid in cash in the period.
The amount of consideration transferred over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the Group Financial Statements: Provisional fair value m Property, plant and equipment 4 Intangible assets 24 Deferred tax liabilities 8 Other liabilities 3 Net assets acquired 17 Goodwill 146 Total consideration transferred 163 m Consideration paid on signing definitive agreement in January 2016 116 Impact of foreign exchange 47 Total consideration transferred 163 Acquisition-related costs have been expensed within exceptional items in the Income Statement.
The amount of revenue and profit on the business acquired since acquisition was not material in the context of the Group Income Statement.
Had the business been acquired on 1 January 2016, the revenue and profit of the Group for the period would not have been materially different to that appearing on the Group Income Statement.
Consideration paid in relation to this acquisition is included within Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired in the Group Cash Flow Statement.
In October 2015, in line with RBs continued focus on its core business of Health, Hygiene and Home, the Group disposed of the Medcom business in Russia.
The reported loss on sale of the entity was 57 million.
This was included within exceptional items.
It comprised a 24 million difference between the net sale proceeds and the net assets: and a recycling from reserves of previous exchange losses arising on consolidation of the legal entity sold.
Due to the significant devaluation of the Russian rouble since acquisition, the non-cash exchange loss required to be recycled through the Income Statement was 33 million.
28 Dividends 2016 2015 m m Cash dividends on equity ordinary shares: 2015 Final paid: 88.7p 2014: Final 79.0p per share 625 566 2016 Interim paid: 58.2p 2015: Interim 50.3p per share 410 358 Total dividends for the year 1,035 924 The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2016 of 95.0 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 665 million of Shareholders funds.
If approved by Shareholders it will be paid on 25 May 2017 to Shareholders who are on the register on 18 April 2017, with an ex-dividend date of 13 April 2017.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 151 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 29 Post Balance Sheet Events On 10 February, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB announced it had signed a merger agreement with Mead Johnson Nutrition Company Mead Johnson under which Mead Johnson shareholders will receive US$90 in cash for each share of common stock, valuing the total equity at US$16.6billion.
Including Mead Johnsons net debt, the total value of the transaction is US$17.9 billion.
The transaction is subject to Shareholder and regulatory approvals.
The Boards of RB and Mead Johnson have both unanimously approved the transaction and will recommend that their respective Shareholders vote in favour of the transaction.
It is expected to be completed by the end ofQ3 2017.
In anticipation of this transaction, the Group has completed syndication of certain debt facilities totalling $21.2 billion.
These facilities will be available to draw down upon shareholder approval of the transaction.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 152 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Five Year Summary The five year summary below, is presented on a statutory basis.
The years ending 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 show the results for continuing operations and exclude the impact of RB Pharmaceuticals.
The preceding year ending 31 December 2012 reflects the Income Statement of the whole Group.
The Balance Sheet has not been restated for the impact of discontinued operations.
2 Adjusted basis is calculated by excluding the exceptional items from net income for the year.
3 Inclusive of RB Pharmaceuticals business.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 153 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion, Reckitt Benckiser Group plcs parent company Financial Statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 154 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities set out on page 96, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
What an audit of Financial Statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 20 March 2017 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 155 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Parent Company Balance Sheet 2016 2015 As at 31 December Notes m m Fixed Assets Investments 2 14,861 14,810 Current Assets Debtors due within one year 3,6 42 95 Debtors due after one year 4 7 42 Cash and cash equivalents 6 1 1 50 138 Current Liabilities Creditors due within one year 5,6 6,484 8,685 Net Current Liabilities 6,434 8,547 Total Assets less Current Liabilities 8,427 6,263 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges 7 62 211 Net Assets 8,365 6,052 EQUITY Capital and Reserves Share capital 8 74 74 Share premium 243 243 Retained earnings At 1 January 5,735 7,434 Profit loss for the financial year 3,906 90 Other changes in retained earnings 1,593 1,609 8,048 5,735 Total Equity 8,365 6,052 The Financial Statements on pages 155 to 173 were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: ADRIAN BELLAMY RAKESH KAPOOR Director Director Company Number: 06270876 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 156 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity Share Share Retained Total capital premium earnings equity m m m m Balance at 1 January 2015 74 243 7,434 7,751 Comprehensive expense Loss for the financial year 90 90 Total comprehensive expense 90 90 Transactions with owners Treasury shares re-issued 74 74 Share-based payments 9 9 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 804 804 Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments 36 36 Cash dividends 924 924 Total transactions with owners 1,609 1,609 Balance at 31 December 2015 74 243 5,735 6,052 Comprehensive income Profit for the financial year 3,906 3,906 Total comprehensive income 3,906 3,906 Transactions with owners Treasury shares re-issued 79 79 Share-based payments 14 14 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 702 702 Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments 51 51 Cash dividends 1,035 1,035 Total transactions with owners 1,593 1,593 Balance at 31 December 2016 74 243 8,048 8,365 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has 7,529 million 2015: 5,282 million of its retained earnings available for distribution.
Details of Treasury shares and other equity transactions are included in Note 23 of the Group Financial Statements.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 157 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1 Parent Company Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
General Information and Basis of Accounting Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 174.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 53.
Statement of Compliance The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 FRS 102 issued by the Financial Reporting Council and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The functional currency of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is considered to be Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
As permitted by s. 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a Statement of Comprehensive Income is not presented for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Going Concern The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Company Financial Statements.
Financial Reporting Standard 102 Reduced Disclosure Exemptions FRS 102 allows a qualifying entity certain disclosure exemptions, subject to certain conditions, which have been complied with.
The Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions: i from preparing a Statement of Cash Flows, on the basis that it is a qualifying entity and the Group Cash Flow Statement, included in these Financial Statements, includes the Companys cash flows: ii from disclosing the Company key management personnel compensation, as required by FRS 102 paragraph 33.7.
The Companys results are included in the publicly available consolidated Financial Statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and these Financial Statements may be obtained from 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH.
Foreign Currency Translation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Taxation The tax charge credit is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
A net deferred tax asset is considered recoverable if it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Fixed Asset Investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less impairment.
A review for the potential impairment of an investment is carried out by the Directors if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investment may not be recoverable.
Such impairment reviews are performed in accordance with Section 27, Impairment of Assets.
Employee Share Schemes Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and restricted share schemes which vest in accordance with non-market conditions.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in comprehensive income or expense such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 158 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 1 Parent Company Accounting Policies continued Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged, including social security taxes, to the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the same period with a corresponding liability recognised.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company Financial Statements.
Financial Instruments The Company only enters into basic financial instrument transactions that result in the recognition of basic financial assets and liabilities, including trade and other receivables and payables and loans to and from related parties.
These transactions are initially recorded at transaction price, unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction where the transaction is measured at the present value of the future receipt discounted at a market rate of interest and subsequently recognised at amortised cost.
i Financial Assets At the end of each reporting period financial assets measured at amortised cost are assessed for objective evidence of impairment.
If an asset is impaired the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The impairment loss is recognised in comprehensive income or expense.
Financial assets are derecognised when a the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are settled, or b substantially all the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset are transferred to another party, or c despite having retained some significant risks and rewards of ownership, control of the asset has been transferred to another party who has the practical ability to unilaterally sell the asset to an unrelated third party without imposing additional restrictions.
ii Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is extinguished, that is when the contractual obligation is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Share Capital Transactions When the Company purchases equity share capital, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
Purchased shares are either held in Treasury in order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, an equivalent amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled is transferred from retained earnings.
Dividends Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a present obligation i. e. when they have been approved.
Accounting Estimates and Judgements In the application of the Companys accounting policies the Directors are required to make a number of estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the significant judgements made in applying the Companys accounting policies: The Company recognises legal and regulatory provisions in line with the Groups provisions policy.
The level of provisioning for regulatory, civil and or criminal investigation is an issue where management and legal judgement is important.
Determine whether there are indicators of impairment of the Companys fixed asset investments.
The Companys Directors are of the opinion that there are no further judgements and no key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities for the Company within the next financial year.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 159 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Investments Shares in subsidiary undertakings m Cost At 1 January 2015 14,774 Additions during the year 36 At 31 December 2015 14,810 Additions during the year 51 At 31 December 2016 14,861 Provision for impairment At 1 January 2015 Provided for during the year At 31 December 2015 Provided for during the year At 31 December 2016 Net book amounts At 31 December 2015 14,810 At 31 December 2016 14,861 The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
The subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2016, all of which are included in the Group Financial Statements, are shown in Note 16 of the Company Financial Statements.
With the exception of Reckitt Benckiser plc, none of the subsidiaries are directly held by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
All subsidiaries have a financial year ending 31 December with the exception of Reckitt Benckiser India Limited, Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare India Limited, Reckitt Benckiser Scholl India Limited and Reckitt and Colman Management Services Limited which has a year ending 31 March: Lloyds Pharmaceuticals which has a year ending 24 August: Crookes Healthcare Limited which has a year ending 31 January and Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Ireland Limited which has a year ending 30 November.
3 Debtors due within one year 2016 2015 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 42 95 Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on demand 2015: unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
4 Debtors due after more than one year 2016 2015 m m Other debtors 36 Deferred tax assets 7 6 7 42 Deferred tax assets consist of short-term timing differences.
5 Creditors due within one year 2016 2015 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 6,473 8,677 Taxation and social security 11 8 6,484 8,685 Included in the amounts owed to Group undertakings is an amount of 6,434 million 2015: 8,669 million which is unsecured, carries interest at 3 month LIBOR and is repayable on demand 2015: unsecured, interest bearing at 3 month LIBOR and repayable on demand.
All other amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, non-interest bearing and are repayable on demand 2015: unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 160 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 6 Financial Instruments 2016 2015 m m Financial Assets Financial assets that are debt instruments measured at amortised cost 42 95 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 6,473 8,677 7 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Share Legal buyback Total provisions provisions provisions m m m At 1 January 2015 65 100 165 Charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 10 10 Charged to equity 800 800 Separate recognition of related insurance receivable 36 36 Utilised during the year 800 800 At 31 December 2015 111 100 211 Charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 12 12 Charged to equity 702 702 Utilised during the year 5 802 807 Released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 56 56 At 31 December 2016 62 62 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2016 2015 m m Current 62 155 Non-current 56 62 211 Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Legal provisions include indemnities provided by the Company.
Legal provisions released during the year relate to those for which an indemnity is no longer required.
For details of the share buyback provision during 2016 refer to Note 17 of the Group Financial Statements.
During the prior year, the Company concluded it would be more appropriate to present the amount recoverable from insurers separately from the related obligation.
Accordingly, a debtor due after more than one year of 36 million was recognised Note 4, with an equal increase in the related provision.
8 Share Capital Equity Nominal ordinary value Issued and fully paid shares m At 1 January 2016 736,535,179 74 Allotments At 31 December 2016 736,535,179 74 Cancelled At 31 December 2016 736,535,179 74 For details of the share buyback programme and allotment of ordinary shares during 2016 refer to Note 23 of the Group Financial Statements.
The holders of ordinary shares par value 10p are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Parent Company.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 161 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 9 Employees and Executive Directors Employees The average monthly number of persons including executive directors employed by the Company during the year was: 2016 2015 No.
By Activity Administration 2 2 The Executive Directors aggregate emoluments were 2 million 2015: 8 million Employee costs 2016 2015 m m The total employment costs were: Wages, salaries and other pension costs 2 8 Social security costs 3 4 Share-based payments 14 9 19 21 10 Share-Based Payments Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has two employees, the Groups CEO and CFO.
The tables below include details of the share awards granted to individuals whilst holding these roles, and those for any individuals previously holding these roles.
Details of the share awards that are not fully vested are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 92.
The charge for share-based payments for the year was 14 million 2015: 9 million and National Insurance contributions were 11 million 2015: 8 million.
The Company is unable to directly measure the fair value of employee services received.
Instead the fair value of the share options granted during the year is determined using the Black-Scholes model.
The model is internationally recognised as being appropriate to value employee share schemes similar to the All employee and Key employee schemes.
The fair value of awards with options outstanding at 31 December 2016 is shown in Note 24 of the Group Financial Statements.
For details of the contractual life, performance criteria, valuation assumptions and volatility of the share awards, please refer to Note 24 of the Group Financial Statements.
For options outstanding at year end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding options is 6.78 years 2015: 7.21 years.
11 Auditors Remuneration The fee charged for the statutory audit of the Company was 0.05 million 2015: 0.05 million.
12 Related Party Transactions Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has related party relationships with its pension schemes as disclosed in Note 22 of the Group Financial Statements.
Certain outstanding balances, totalling 6 million, were settled with Indivior PLC during the year.
These related to adjustments to final UK corporation tax liabilities settled on behalf of Indivior PLC by Reckitt Benckiser plc.
There were no other transactions with related parties other than wholly-owned companies within the Group.
13 Contingent Liabilities The Company has issued a guarantee to the Trustees of the Reckitt Benckiser Pension Fund covering the obligations of certain UK subsidiaries of the Group who are the sponsoring employers of the UK defined benefit pension fund.
The guarantee covers any amounts due to the pension fund from these subsidiaries if they fail to meet their pension obligations.
The Company has also issued a guarantee on behalf of Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc in relation to the issuance of a US$1,000 million bond two tranches of US$500 million.
Details are included in Note 14 of the Group Financial Statements.
Other contingent liabilities are discussed in Note 19 of the Group Financial Statements.
14 Dividends During 2016, the Directors declared an interim cash dividend of 58.2p 2015: 50.3p and proposed a final cash dividend of 95.0p 2015: 88.7p.
For further details, refer to Note 28 of the Group Financial Statements.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 163 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 15 Post Balance Sheet Events On 10 February, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB announced it had signed a merger agreement with Mead Johnson Nutrition Company Mead Johnson under which Mead Johnson shareholders will receive US$90 in cash for each share of common stock, valuing the total equity at US$16.6billion.
16 Subsidiary Undertakings Reckitt Benckiser Group plc holds 100% of Reckitt Benckiser plc, a Company incorporated in England and Wales with its registered office at 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom.
The Company has no further shareholdings.
All subsidiary undertakings of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc are included in the consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group 0730033 BC Ltd CANADA Suite 2300, 550 Burrard Street, Vancouver BC V6C 2BS COMMON 100.00% 103-105 Bath Road Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Airwick Industrie SAS FRANCE 38 rue Victor Basch, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Anhui Guilong Pharmaceutical Trading CHINA Dangtu Economic Development Zone, Maanshan City, ORD 100.00% Company Ltd Anhui Province, China  Lemore BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Benckiser UK 4th Floor, 115, George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4JN, Scotland ORD 100.00% Brevet Hospital Products UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% British Surgical Industries Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Canterbury Square Holdings Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Central Square Holding BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Crookes Healthcare Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, ORD 100.00% Dublin 1, Ireland Crookes Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Cupal Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Dakin Brothers Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Dorincourt Holdings Ireland Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland Durex Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Earex Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% ERH Propack Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Fenla Industria, Comercio e Administracao BRAZIL Rodovia Raposo Tavares, 8015, km 18, Jardim Arpoador, CEP ORD 100.00% Ltda 05577-900, So Paulo, Brazil Gainbridge Investments Cyprus Limited CYPRUS 1 Lampousas Street, P. C. 1095, Nicosia, Cyprus ORD 100.00% Glasgow Square Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Green, Young & Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Grosvenor Square Holding BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Guilong Pharmaceutical Anhui Co. Ltd CHINA Dangtu Economic Development Zone, Maanshan City, Anhui ORD 100.00% Province, China Guilong Pharmaceutical Anhui Co. Ltd CHINA 11F New Port Plaza, 10 Hubinbei Road, Xiamen, China 100.00% Xiamen Branch Hamol Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 164 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group Helpcentral Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Howard Lloyd & Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Kukident GmbH GERMANY Heinestrasse 9, 69469 Weinheim, Germany ORD 100.00% Lancaster Square Holdings SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% LI Pensions Trust Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Linden Germany A Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Linden Germany B Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Lloyds Pharmaceuticals UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% London International Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% London International Trading Asia Ltd HONG KONG Units 1503-7, 15th Floor, Millennium City 6, ORD 100.00% 392 Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong LRC Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% LRC North America Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, COM 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States LRC Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% LRC Products Limited Australian Branch AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia 100.00% LRC Secretarial Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Maddison Square Holding BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Marigold Merger Sub Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, ORD 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Medcom LLC BELARUS 220108, Minsk, Kazintsa, 121A, app.
450, Belarus ORD 100.00% Medcom Marketing And Prodazha Ukraine UKRAINE 1 Block, 120 40-Richchia Zhovtnia Ave. Kyiv, 03127, Ukraine ORD 100.00% LLC In Liquidation Nances Holdings Ltda BRAZIL Avenida Piracicaba, 137, Parte, Marmeleiro, ORD 100.00% formerly Nances Holdings S. A Vila Nova So Roque, CEP 18131-230, So Roque SP, Brasil New Bridge Holdings BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% New Bridge Street Invoicing Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Norwich Square Holding SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Nurofen Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Open Championship Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Optrex Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Oriental Medicine Company Limited HONG KONG Units 1503-7, 15th Floor, Millennium City 6, ORD 100.00% 392 Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong Oxy Reckitt Benckiser LLC SOUTH KOREA 24th Floor Two IFC, 10 Gukjegeumyung-ro, ORD 100.00% Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 150-945 South Korea Paras Global FZE DUBAI Sheikh Zayed Road, 8.5 Interchange, Dubai, ORD 100.00% United Arab Emirates Paras Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, COMMON 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Paras Overseas Holding Limited DUBAI Sheikh Zayed Road, 8.5 Interchange, Dubai, ORD 100.00% United Arab Emirates Pharmalab Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Prebbles Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD DEF 100.00% Propack Australia Pty Limited AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD 100.00% Propack GmbH GERMANY Dr.  3, 68526 Ladenburg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 165 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group Pt Reckitt Benckiser Indonesia INDONESIA Artha Graha Building, 11th Floor, ORD 100.00% Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 52-53, Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Pt Reckitt Benckiser Trading Indonesia INDONESIA Artha Graha Building, 11th Floor, ORD 100.00% Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav 52-53, Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Qingdao London Durex Co Ltd CHINA No.
1 Shangma, Aodong Road, Qingdao City, ORD 100.00% Shandong Province, China Qingdao New Bridge Corporate Management CHINA No.
1 Shangma, Aodong Road, Qingdao City, ORD 100.00% Consulting Company Ltd Shandong Province, China R & C Nominees Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% R & C Nominees One Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% R & C Nominees Two Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB & Manon Business Ltd HONG KONG Unit 2001, 20 F, Greenfield Tower, Concordia Plaza, ORD 75.00% No.
1 Science Museum Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong RB & Manon Business Co. Ltd CHINA Room 1101, No.
1033, Zhao Jia Bang Road, Shanghai, China ORD 75.05% RB China Trading Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD ORD A 80.00% RB China Holding Co Ltd CHINA 6th Floor, Tower D, Parkview Green Fang Cao Di, No.
9 ORD 100.00% Dongdaqiao Road, Chaoyang District, China RB Asia Holding Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Healthcare Pte Ltd Malaysia Branch MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, ORD 100.00% Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia RB Healthcare Pte Ltd in Liquidation SINGAPORE 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00% RB Holding Europe Du Sud SNC FRANCE 38 rue Victor Basch, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% RB Holdings Luxembourg Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% RB Holdings Nottingham Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Manufacturing LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste Membership 100.00% 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares RB Mexico Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Reigate Ireland Unlimited Company IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, ORD 100.00% Dublin 1, Ireland RB Reigate UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Square Holdings Spain SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% RB UK Commercial Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB USA Holdings LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Membership 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares RB Winchester Ireland Unlimited Company IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, ORD 100.00% Dublin 1, Ireland RBH Verwertungs GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Jersey Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Overseas Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Capital Finance Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Guangzhou Limited CHINA Economic and Technological Development Zone, Eastern, ORD 100.00% Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, China Reckitt & Colman Holdings Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Management Services IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland Limited Ireland Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 166 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group Reckitt & Colman Pension Trustee Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Sagrotan GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00%  mbH Reckitt & Colman Trustee Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Sons Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser 2012 BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Australia Pty Limited AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Bangladesh Limited BANGLADESH 58 59 Nasirabad Industrial Area, Chittagong- 4209, ORD 82.96% Bangladesh Reckitt Benckiser Belgium SA NV BELGIUM Researchdreef, Alle fide la Recherche 20, B-1070 Brussel, ORD 100.00% Bruxelles, Belgium Reckitt Benckiser Brands Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Brasil Ltda BRAZIL Rodovia Raposo Tavares, 8015, km 18, Jardim Arpoador, ORD 100.00% CEP 05577-900, Sao Paulo, Brazil Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
1 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, ORD 100.00% ISLANDS British Virgin Islands Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
1 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
2 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, ORD 100.00% ISLANDS British Virgin Islands Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
2 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
3 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, ORD 100.00% ISLANDS British Virgin Islands Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
3 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
4 Limited BRITISH VIRGIN Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, ORD 100.00% ISLANDS British Virgin Islands Reckitt Benckiser Canada Inc CANADA 1680 Tech Avenue Unit 2, Mississauga, NEW 100.00% Ontario L4W 5S9, Canada COMMON Reckitt Benckiser Cayman Islands Limited CAYMAN ISLANDS PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, ORD 100.00% George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands Reckitt Benckiser Centroamerica SA COSTA RICA San Jos, Escaz Corporate Center, 7 Piso, ORD 100.00% Costado Sur fide Multiplaza Escaz, San Jos, Costa Rica Reckitt Benckiser Channel Islands Limited GUERNSEY 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, ORD 100.00% St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1EW Reckitt Benckiser Czech Republic Spol s r o CZECH REPUBLIC Vinohradsk 2828 151, 130 00 Praha 3-ikov, ORD 100.00% Czech Republic Reckitt Benckiser Egypt Limited EGYPT Polyium Building 22, Off-road 90, District 1, ORD 100.00% 5th Settlement, New Cairo, Egypt Reckitt Benckiser ENA BV NETHERLANDS Schiphol Boulevard 267, 1118 BH Schiphol, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Espana SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Granollers SL SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Grosvenor Holdings UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser India Private Limited INDIA 227, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III, New Delhi, South Delhi, ORD 100.00% Delhi, India, 110020 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 167 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group Reckitt Benckiser Lanka Limited SRI LANKA 41 Lauries Road, Colombo 4, Sri Lanka ORD 99.99% Reckitt Benckiser Latvia SIA LATVIA Strlnieku iela 1A 2, Rga, LV-1010, Latvia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Malaysia Sdn Bhd MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, ORD 100.00% Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Reckitt Benckiser Near East Limited ISRAEL 6 Hangar Street, I.
Israel Reckitt Benckiser New Zealand Limited NEW ZEALAND 2 Fred Thomas Dr, Takapuna, Auckland 0622, New Zealand ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Nordic A S DENMARK Vandtrnsvej 83 A, 2860 Sborg, Denmark ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Pars PJSC IRAN No 67, West Taban Avenue, Africa Boulevard, Tehran, Iran ORD 99.80% Reckitt Benckiser Poland SA POLAND Okunin 1, 05-100 Nowy Dwr Mazowiecki, Poland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Portugal SA PORTUGAL R. Dom Cristvo da Gama 1 1 Andar C D, Edifcio Restelo, ORD 100.00% 1400-113 Lisboa, Portugal Reckitt Benckiser Romania Srl ROMANIA Floor 5, Building A, 89-97 Grigore Alexandrescu Street, ORD 100.00% Bucarest, Romania Reckitt Benckiser RUMEA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser RUMEA Limited Dubai DUBAI Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, 100.00% Branch PO Box 61344 Dubai, UAE Reckitt Benckiser Singapore Pte Limited SINGAPORE 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Slovak Republic Spol s r o SLOVAKIA Drieov 3, 82108 Bratislava, Slovakia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser South America NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Holding BV Reckitt Benckiser Spain BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Switzerland AG SWITZERLAND Richtistrasse 5, 8405 Wallisellen, Switzerland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Thailand Limited THAILAND No.
89 AIA Capital Center, Rooms 2504 2507, ORD 45.00% 25th Floor, Ratchadaphisek Rd.
Dindaeng Sub-District, Dindaeng District, Bangkok 10400, Thailand Reckitt Benckiser UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser AG SWITZERLAND Richtistrasse 5, 8304 Wallisellen, Switzerland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Arabia FZE DUBAI Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, ORD 100.00% PO Box 61344 Dubai, UAE Reckitt Benckiser Argentina SA ARGENTINA Bucarelli 2608 PB A, CABA, Buenos Aires, Argentina ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific Limited JAPAN 3-20-14 Higashi-Gotanda, Shinagawa-Ku, Tokyo 100.00% Japan Branch 141-0022 Japan Reckitt Benckiser Austria GmbH AUSTRIA Guglgasse 15, A-1110 Wien Vienna, Austria ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Bahrain W. L. L BAHRAIN PO Box 50833, Hidd, Kingdom of Bahrain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Brands Investments BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Bulgaria Eood BULGARIA 22 Zlaten Rog Str 1407 Sofia, Bulgaria ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser BY LLC BELARUS 220108, Minsk, Kazintsa, 121A, app.
403, Belarus COMMON 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Calgon BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Chartres SAS FRANCE 98, Rue Sours, 2800, Chartres ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Chile SA CHILE Av.
Kennedy Lateral 5454, Vitacura, ORD 100.00% Regin Metropolitana, Chile Reckitt Benckiser Colombia SA COLOMBIA Calle 46 # 5 76.
Cali, Colombia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 168 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group Reckitt Benckiser Commercial Italia Srl ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Corporate Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser d. o. o CROATIA Ulica grada Vukovara 269d, 10 000 Zagreb, ORD 100.00% Hrvatska, Croatia Reckitt Benckiser fide Mexico, SA fide CV MEXICO Circuito Dr Gustavo Baz, 7 No 7, Fracc Industrial El Pedregal, ORD 100.00% Atizapan fide Zaragoza, Edomex, Mexico Reckitt Benckiser Detergents GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Deutschland GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser East Africa Limited KENYA Plot Lr No 209 2462, Likoni Road, Nairobi, Kenya, Africa ORD 99.00% Reckitt Benckiser Ecuador SA ECUADOR Francisco Salazar E10-37 y Jose Luis Tamayo.
Quito, Ecuador ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Employees Trustees Jersey JERSEY Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Europe General Partnership UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom Partnership 100.00% Shares Reckitt Benckiser Europe General Partnership, SWITZERLAND 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 0.00% Slough UK, Wallisellen Branch Swiss Branch Reckitt Benckiser Expatriate Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Fabric Treatment BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance 2005 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance 2007 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance 2010 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance Ireland Unlimited Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, ORD 100.00% Company Dublin 1, Ireland Reckitt Benckiser Finance Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finish BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser France SAS FRANCE 38 rue Victor Basch, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser FSIA BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Central & UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Eastern Europe Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare CIS Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Ireland Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, ORD 100.00% Dublin 1, Ireland Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Italia SpA ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare MEMA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Philippines, Inc PHILIPPINES Unit 2202 One Global Place, 5th Ave.
Corner 25th St. ORD 100.00% Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City 1634, Philippines Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Russia LLC RUSSIA Tverskaya 16 2 125009, Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Australia Pty AUSTRALIA 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare France SAS FRANCE 38 rue Victor Basch, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare India Private INDIA PLOT NO.
48, SECTOR 32, NEAR IITM, GURGAON, ORD 100.00% Limited Gurgaon, Haryana, India, 122001 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 169 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare International UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Manufacturing THAILAND 65 Moo 12 Lardkrabang-Bangplee Road, ORD PREF 45.00% Thailand Limited Bangplee Samutprakarn, Bangkok 10540, Thailand Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Portugal Ltda PORTUGAL R. Dom Cristvo da Gama 1 1 Andar C D, Edifcio Restelo, ORD 100.00% 1400-113 Lisboa, Portugal Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare SA SPAIN Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Hellas Chemicals SA GREECE 7 Taki KavalieratouStreet, 145 64 Kifissia, Greece ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holding Thailand Limited THAILAND No.
89 AIA Capital Center, Rooms 2504 2507, 25th Floor, ORD PREF 45.00% Ratchadaphisek Rd.
Dindaeng Sub-District, Dindaeng District, Bangkok 10400, Thailand Reckitt Benckiser Holding GmbH & Co KG GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Channel Islands GUERNSEY 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, ORD 100.00% Limited St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1EW Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Channel Islands UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Limited UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Italia Srl ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Luxembourg UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Overseas Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings USA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings USA Limited LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg 100.00% Luxembourg Branch Reckitt Benckiser Home Chemical Products CHINA C6-8 site, 6F, No.
333 Futexi Road, Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, ORD 100.00% Trading Shanghai Co Limited Shanghai City, China Reckitt Benckiser Hong Kong Limited HONG KONG Room 03-07, 15 F, Millennium City 6, 392 Kwun Tong Road, ORD 100.00% Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong Reckitt Benckiser Hong Kong Limited TAIWAN 6F.
100.00% Taiwan Branch Taipei City 10657, Taiwan, R. O. C. Reckitt Benckiser Household and Healthcare UKRAINE 28A LG, Moscovskiy Prospekt, off.
80, Kiev, Ukraine ORD 100.00% Ukraine LLC Reckitt Benckiser Household Products China CHINA No.
34 Beijing East Road, Jingzhou City, Hubei Province, ORD 100.00% Company Limited China Reckitt Benckiser International GmbH GERMANY Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments 2012 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Membership 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
1 Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
2 Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
4 Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
5 Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
6 Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
7 Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
8 Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser IP LLC RUSSIA Kozhevnicheskaya str.
14, 115114 Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Ireland Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, ORD 100.00% Dublin 1, Ireland Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 170 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group Reckitt Benckiser Italia SpA ITALY Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Japan Limited JAPAN Shinagawa-ku, 141-0022, Japan ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
1 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
1 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
2 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
2 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
3 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
3 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
5 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
5 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
7 Limited JERSEY 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD, CLASS 100.00% A, C & D Reckitt Benckiser Kazakhstan LLC KAZAKHSTAN House 15A, Koktem 1, Bostandyksky District, Almaty, ORD 100.00% 050040, Kazakhstan Reckitt Benckiser Kereskedelmi Kft HUNGARY 134-146 ut Bocksai, 1113 Budapest, Hungary ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Laundry Detergents NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% No.
1 BV Reckitt Benckiser Laundry Detergents NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% No.
2 BV Reckitt Benckiser Lime-A-Way BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser LLC RUSSIA Kosmodamianskaya nab.
52 1, 115054, Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Membership 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg 2010 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
1 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
2 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
3 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
4 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Management Services IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, A, B, C, D, E, F, 100.00% Unlimited Company Dublin 1, Ireland G, H, I, K ORD Reckitt Benckiser Marc BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Morocco Sarl AU MOROCCO 322 Boulevard, Zerktouni, Residence Boissy Ler Etage ORD 100.00% Bourgogne, Casablanca, Morocco Reckitt Benckiser Netherlands Brands BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Nigeria Limited NIGERIA 12 Montgomery Road, Yaba, Lagos, Nigeria ORD 99.53% Reckitt Benckiser NV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser NV Luxembourg Branch LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Oven Cleaners BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Pakistan Limited PAKISTAN QM Building, 9 11th Floor, Plot No BC 15, Block 7, Clifton, ORD 98.60% Karachi, Pakistan Reckitt Benckiser Peru SA PERU Avenida Repblica fide Panam No.
ORD 100.00% Lima, Per Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 171 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals Pty SOUTH AFRICA 8 Jet Park Road, Elandsfontein 1406, South Africa ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Porto Alto Lda PORTUGAL Estrada Malhada dos Carrascos nr12, 2135-061, Samora ORD 100.00% Correia, Portugal Reckitt Benckiser Power Cleaners BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Production Poland Sp.
z. o. o. POLAND Okunin 1, 05-100 Nowy Dwr Mazowiecki, Poland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Produktions GmbH GERMANY Dr.  3, 68526 Ladenburg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Scholl India Private Limited INDIA F73 & 74, SIPCOT Industrial Park, ORD 100.00% Irungattukottai, Sriperumbudur TK, Kancheepuram Distt.
602 117, Tamilnadu, India Reckitt Benckiser Service Bureau Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Services Kenya Limited KENYA Plot Lr No 1870 I 569, 2nd Floor Apollo Centre, ORD 100.00% Ring Road Parklands, Westlands, Pobox 764, 00606 Nairobi, Kenya, Africa Reckitt Benckiser Services SA fide CV MEXICO Circuito Dr Gustavo Baz, 7 No 7, Fracc Industrial El Pedregal, ORD 100.00% Atizapan fide Zaragoza, Edomex, Mexico Reckitt Benckiser South Africa Pty Limited SOUTH AFRICA 8 Jet Park Road, Elandsfontein 1406, South Africa ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Taiwan Limited TAIWAN 106 94043 Charity No.
136, Sec Taiwan ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Tatabanya Kft HUNGARY 134-146 ut Bocksai, 1113 Budapest, Hungary ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Temizlik Malzemesi San.
five TURKEY Hakki Yeten Cad.
Selenium Plaza K:7-8-9, Fulya, ORD 99.96% Tic.
A. S. Besiktas, Istanbul, Turkey Reckitt Benckiser Tiret BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Treasury 2007 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA 2010 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Membership 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser USA 2010 LLC UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser USA 2012 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Membership 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser USA 2013 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Membership 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser USA 2013 LLC UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance No.
1 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance No.
2 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance No.
3 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA General Partnership USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Partnership 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser Vanish BV NETHERLANDS Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Colman Chiswick OTC Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Piramal Private Limited INDIA 8th Floor, B-Wing, Marwah Centre, Krishanlal Marwah Marg, ORD 100.00% Saki Naka, Andheri East, Mumbai 400 072, India Reigate Square Holdings Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 172 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group Relcamp Aie in liquidation SPAIN Carrer fide Fray Pau Carb, 24, 08403, Granollers, ORD 100.00% Barcelona, Spain Rivalmuster UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Consumer Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Latin America Limited in liquidation BAHAMAS c o 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Seton Healthcare Group No.
2 Trustee Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Seton Healthcare No.
1 Trustee Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Prebbles Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Scholl Healthcare International Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Scholl Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Scholl Overseas Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Scholl UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL C C Manufacturing Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL C C Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% SSL MG Polymers Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL MG Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL RB Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL SD International Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL Australia Pty Ltd AUSTRALIA 225 Beach Road, Mordialloc VIC 3195, Australia ORD 100.00% SSL Capital Ltd JERSEY 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG ORD PREF 100.00% SSL Healthcare Shanghai Ltd CHINA Room 1605, No.
660 Shangcheng Road, Pudong District, ORD 100.00% Shanghai City, China SSL Healthcare Ireland Limited IRELAND 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, ORD 100.00% Dublin 1, Ireland SSL Healthcare Malaysia Sdn Bhd in MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar ORD 100.00% Liquidation Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SSL Healthcare Manufacturing SA SPAIN Av.
Can Fatj, 151, 08191 Rub, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Norge AS NORWAY Vollsveien 9, 1366 Lysaker, Norway ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Singapore Pte Ltd SINGAPORE 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Sverige AB SWEDEN Waterfront, Box 190, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden ORD 100.00% SSL Holdings USA Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, COMMON 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States SSL International plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 173 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 16 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Proportion of Country of shares held by Name Incorporation Registered Office Share Class Group SSL Manufacturing Thailand Ltd THAILAND Wellgrow Industrial Estate, 100 Moo 5, ORD 100.00% Bagna Trad Rd Km 36 Bangaamak, Bangpakong, Chachoengsao, Bangkok 24180, Thailand SSL Mexico SA fide CV MEXICO Av.
fide los Angeles No 303 Bodega 3B-1 Col. San Matin ORD 100.00% Xochinahuac, Azcapotzalco, Mexico SSL New Zealand Limited NEW ZEALAND 2 Fred Thomas Dr, Takapuna, Auckland 0622, New Zealand ORD 100.00% SSL Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Suffolk Finance Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD DEF 100.00% Suffolk Insurance Limited BERMUDA Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM DX, COMMON 100.00% Bermuda Tai He Tai Lai Culture Communication Co Ltd CHINA 1-1707, No.
15 Majiapu West Road, Fengtai District, ORD 100.00% Beijing City, China The Frenchs Food Company 2016 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% The Frenchs Food Company Inc CANADA 1680 Tech Avenue Unit 2, Mississauga, COMMON 100.00% Ontario L4W 5S9, Canada The Frenchs Food Company LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Membership 100.00% Ste 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares The Frenchs Food Company Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% The Frenchs Food Finance Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% The Frenchs Food Finance Company Limited LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg 100.00% Luxembourg Branch The R. T. Frenchs Food Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% The R. T. Frenchs Food Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% The RB Company Malaysia Sdn Bhd MALAYSIA Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar ORD 100.00% in Liquidation Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tubifoam Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Ultra Chemical Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Ultra Laboratories Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% W. Woodward, Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Winchester Square Holdings Sarl LUXEMBOURG 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Xinzhou ZhongHeng Pharmaceutical Co Ltd CHINA Economic Development Zone, Xinzhou City, ORD 100.00% Shanxi Province, China Zhong Wei Guo Yuan Beijing Biotech Co Ltd CHINA B-1201, Area 1, Fang Zhuang Fang Cheng Yuan, ORD 100.00% Fengtai District, Beijing, China Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements
