STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 107 106 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION ACCOUNTING POLICIES Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have Adjustments are made as necessary to the financial statements The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents the Income and Deferred Tax been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting of subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and the Group.
the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any effective at 30 June 2016, and in accordance with IFRS Interpretations All inter-company transactions and balances between Group appropriate adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Noncurrent Assets Held for Sale Committee interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 as it applies companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as shown in the income Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale when to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation statement as it excludes income or expenditure items which are never their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale and in accordance with the historical cost convention as modified by b.
Interests in joint ventures chargeable or allowable for tax or which are chargeable or deductible transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 in other accounting periods.
managements best estimate of realisable value less estimated costs investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS necessary to make the sale.
operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported obligations of each investor.
Redrow plc has assessed the nature of its Investment in Subsidiary Companies method, on temporary differences arising between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries is held amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
at cost less any impairment.
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the calculation period.
Whilst these estimates are based on managements best of taxable profit.
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are Leases may differ from those estimates refer to note 1. initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements that taxable profits will be available against which deductible are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
When the Groups share of losses in a temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are payable under operating leases are charged to work in progress or Redrow plc is a public listed company, listed on the London Stock joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures, the recognised for all temporary differences.
Deferred tax is calculated income on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Exchange and domiciled in the UK.
Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred at the rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
Inventories obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
The principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, periods presented and are outlined below: Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint less cash on account which represents payments made against work consolidated statement of comprehensive income, or retained ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the in progress, including customer deposits.
Basis of Consolidation joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Intangible Assets Computer Software Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct materials transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis and subcontract work, other direct costs and those overheads based transferred.
Groups share of the results and share of net assets of jointly of costs incurred to bring to use the specific software and are on normal operating capacity that have been incurred in bringing the controlled entities i. e. the financial statements of Redrow plc and Revenue and Profit Recognition amortised over their estimated useful lives of three years, charged inventories to their present location and condition, excluding entities controlled by Redrow plc and its subsidiaries.
Control is Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable in respect of to administrative expenses.
These are reviewed for impairment borrowing costs.
achieved where Redrow plc has the power to govern the financial and the sale of residential housing and land and of commercial land and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the Provisions are established to write down land where the estimated net operating policies of an entity.
Redrow plcs accounting reference date developments net of value added tax and discounts.
This is recognised carrying values may not be recoverable.
sales proceeds less costs to complete exceed the current carrying is 30 June.
Consistent with the normal monthly reporting process, the on legal completion.
Property, Plant and Equipment value.
Adjustments to the provisions will be required where selling actual date to which the balance sheet has been drawn up is 26 June Profit is recognised on legal completion.
Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held for prices or costs to complete change.
For ease of reference, all references to the administrative purposes.
Freehold property is shown at cost less year or 12 months and financial position are for the year ended Segmental Reporting Net realisable value for land was assessed by estimating selling prices the subsequent depreciation of buildings.
The main operation of the Group is focused on housebuilding.
and cost including sales and marketing expenses, taking into account All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less current market conditions.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided under As it operates entirely within the United Kingdom, the Group has only depreciation.
Historic cost includes any costs directly attributable to Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present Redrow plcs one business and geographic segment.
This is consistent with the This net realisable value provision will be closely monitored for bringing the assets to the location and condition necessary for them Company income statement.
The profit for the financial year is dealt information provided for internal reporting purposes to the Chief adequacy and appropriateness as regards under and over provision to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
with in the statement of changes in equity.
Operating Decision Maker the Board.
The Group has no key customers.
to reflect circumstances at future balance sheet dates.
Any material Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is charged so as change to the underlying provision will be reflected through cost of a.
Subsidiaries Exceptional Items to write off the cost of assets to their residual values over their sales as an exceptional item.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Exceptional items are those which in the opinion of the Board, are estimated useful lives, on a straight line basis as follows: Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights material by size or nature, non-recurring and of such significance that Forward Land to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the they require separate disclosure.
Expenditure relating to forward land excluding owned sites without Buildings within freehold property 50 years ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
residential planning consent but including options, fees etc.
is provided Plant and machinery 510 years Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is Net Financing Costs for when incurred.
After exercise of an option and acquisition of land Fixtures and fittings 35 years transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis by reference following the securing of planning permission, the provisions relating control ceases.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
Interest to that land are released.
Expenditure incurred on owned sites without The assets useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured costs are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis in residential planning consent is included in inventories and is subject to each balance sheet date.
at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of the period in which they are incurred.
acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in net assets represents goodwill.
Goodwill is subject to an annual circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
impairment review, with any reduction in value being taken straight to the income statement.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 109 108 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts.
IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral Employee Benefits Financial Instruments Onerous Contracts accounts permits firsttime adopters to continue to recognise a.
Land creditors Onerous contracts are contracts in which the unavoidable costs in amounts related to rate regulation in accordance with their previous The Group operates two pension schemes for its staff.
The Redrow Staff Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at discounted meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic GAAP requirements when they adopt IFRS.
However, to enhance Pension Scheme the Scheme closed to the accrual of new benefits present value using the effective interest method, in accordance with benefits expected to be received under it.
Provision is made to reflect comparability with entities that already apply IFRS and do not with effect from 1 March 2012, with new benefits now being provided IAS 39.
The difference between the fair value and the nominal value managements best current estimate of the least net cost of either recognise such amounts, the standard requires that the effect of via the Redrow Group Personal Pension Plan the GPP.
The Scheme is amortised over the deferment period via financing costs.
fulfilling or exiting the contract.
rate regulation must be presented separately from other items.
is externally invested and comprises two sections: a defined benefit The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available on the Share Capital Published January 2014, effective date: annual periods beginning section and a defined contribution section.
A defined benefit plan is date of the land purchase.
Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
on or after 1 January 2016. a pension plan which defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
It is funded through payments to Amendments to IAS 27, Separate financial statements on the b.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Dividend Distribution trustee administered funds, determined by actuarial valuations carried equity method.
These amendments allow entities to use the equity Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised out on at least a triennial basis.
A defined contribution plan is a pension method to account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures nd the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which plan under which the Group pays agreed contributions into a separate and associates in their separate financial statements.
Published the dividends are declared.
fund for each employee and any subsequent pension payable to a The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by an interest August 2014, effective date: annual periods beginning on or after specific employee is determined by the amount accumulated in their rate risk management framework adopted by the Board which sets Impact of New Standards and Interpretations 1 January 2016. individual fund.
The GPP is also a type of defined contribution plan.
parameters to ensure an appropriate level of hedging is maintained a.
New and amended standards adopted by the Group Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements on the to manage interest rate risk in respect of borrowings.
The following new standards and amendments to standards are The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the disclosure initiative.
These amendments are as part of the IASB mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning defined benefit section of the scheme is the present value of the initiative to improve presentation and disclosure in financial reports.
The policy prohibits any trading in derivative financial instruments 1 July 2015: defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, or their use for speculative purposes.
The defined benefit obligation is determined using the subject to EU endorsement.
Published December 2014, effective Amendment to IAS 19 regarding defined benefit plans.
These narrow projected unit credit method on an annual basis by an independent date: annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative scope amendments apply to contributions from employees or third scheme actuary.
financial instruments which are designated and which qualify as cash parties to defined benefit plans.
The objective of the amendments is Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements flow hedges are recognised directly in equity in a hedge reserve.
The to simplify the accounting for contributions that are independent of and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures.
These Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the number of years of employee service, for example, employee amendments address an inconsistency between the requirements changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity the income statement immediately they arise.
contributions that are calculated according to a fixed percentage of in IFRS 10 and those in IAS 28 in dealing with the sale or as they arise in full via the statement of comprehensive income.
Published November 2013, effective date: annual periods contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or c. Loans and receivables beginning on or after 1 July 2014 endorsed for periods on or after joint venture.
The main consequence of the amendments is that Scheme service costs are charged to cost of sales and administrative Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed 1 February 2015. a full gain or loss is recognised when a transaction involves a expenses as appropriate and scheme finance costs are included in net or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
business whether it is housed in a subsidiary or not.
Past service costs are recognised immediately Annual improvements 2013 endorsed for annual periods on or They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater gain or loss is recognised when a transaction involves assets that in income.
after 1 January 2015 The amendments include changes from the than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as do not constitute a business, even if these assets are housed in a 2011-2-13 cycle of the annual improvements project that affect non-current assets.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables and In respect of the defined contribution section of the Scheme and the subsidiary.
Published September 2014, effective date: annual 4 standards: IFRS 1, First time adoption IFRS 3, Business other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
GPP, contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. combinations IFRS 13, Fair value measurement and IAS 40, when they are due.
The Group has no further payment obligations Trade receivables are held at discounted present value less any Investment property.
IAS Amendments to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows on disclosure in respect of the above once the contributions have been paid.
The amount is then increased to settlement value initiative.
These amendments to IAS 7 introduce an additional b.
The following new standards, new interpretations and over the settlement period via financing income.
disclosure that will enable users of financial statements to evaluate b.
Bonus plans amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
The The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where d. Cash and cash equivalents but are not effective for the financial year beginning 1 July 2015 amendment is part of the IASBs Disclosure Initiative, which contractually obliged.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
and have not been early adopted.
With the exception of IFRS 16 continues to explore how financial statement disclosure can be Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, forming an integral Leases these are not expected to have a material impact on the improved.
Published February 2016 effective date: annual periods c. Sharebased payments part of the Groups cash management are included as a component Group financial statements: beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on acquisition of an on the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based payments, on clarifying how cash flows.
This amendment adds new guidance vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will to account for certain types of share-based payment transactions on how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint eventually vest.
e. Borrowings and trade payables effective 1 January 2018.
This amendment clarifies the operation that constitutes a business.
The amendments specify Interest bearing borrowings and trade payables are recorded when measurement basis for cash-settled, share-based payments and the the appropriate accounting treatment for such acquisitions.
d. Termination benefits the proceeds are received, net of transaction costs incurred and accounting for modifications that change an award from cashPublished May 2014, effective date: annual periods beginning Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated subsequently at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, settled to equity-settled.
It also introduces an exception to the on or after 1 January 2016. by the Group before normal retirement date by redundancy.
net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the principles in IFRS 2 that will require an award to be treated as if it These benefits are recognised by the Group in the period in which it Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS income statement over the period of the borrowings.
was wholly equity-settled, where an employer is obliged to withhold becomes demonstrably committed to terminating the employment 38, Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation.
In this an amount for the employees tax obligation associated with a of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without amendment the IASB has clarified that the use of revenue based share-based payment and pay that amount to the tax authority.
methods to calculate the depreciation of an asset is not appropriate Published June 2016, effective date: annual periods beginning on or because revenue generated by an activity that includes the use of an after 1 January 2018. asset generally reflects factors other than the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in the asset.
The IASB has also clarified that revenue is generally presumed to be an inappropriate basis for measuring the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in an intangible asset.
Published May 2014, effective date: annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
