STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 97 96 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REDROW PLC The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed below, Report on the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Our opinion accordance with applicable law and regulations.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Redrow plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state for each Financial Year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with Group: and 12 months then ended: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the the Strategic Report contained on pages 03 to 61 includes a fair the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve review of the development and performance of the business and adopted by the European Union: the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true the position of the Group, together with a description of the and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors of Redrow plc as at the date of this statement are: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Steve Morgan, Chairman John Tutte, Group Chief Executive make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable What we have audited Barbara Richmond, Group Finance Director and prudent: The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: Debbie Hewitt, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union Nick Hewson, Non-Executive Director have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed the Group and Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2016: Liz Peace, Non-Executive Director and explained in the financial statements: and Sir Michael Lyons, Non-Executive Director the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 12 months then ended: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless the Group and Company statement of cash flows for the 12 months then ended: By order of the Board it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue the Group and Company statement of changes in equity for the 12 months then ended: in business.
the accounting policies: and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Graham Cope the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Company Secretary disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 5 September 2016 These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Redrow plc The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible Redrow House and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence St. Davids Park for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Flintshire and other irregularities.
CH5 3RX The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Our audit approach Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Materiality Overview preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Overall Group materiality: 12.5 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Net realisable value of inventories.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, Audit scope balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary Valuation of pension scheme surplus.
for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Areas of focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table on page 98.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
