STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 135 134 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION GLOSSARY CORPORATE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NPPF Shareholder Discounts Group Contacts The National Policy Planning Framework The Company offers a discount of 1% to Shareholders off the purchase Officers and advisers price of a new Redrow home.
In order to qualify for the discount a HBF Company Secretary purchaser must hold a minimum of 2,500 ordinary shares in Redrow Home Builders Federation Graham Cope plc for a minimum of 12 months prior to the date of reservation, subject to a cap of 5,000.
NHBC Registered Office National House-Building Council Redrow House Details of our current developments are available on our website: St. Davids Park www.
co. uk CITB Flintshire Construction Industry Training Board Dividend Tax Allowance CH5 3RX From 6 April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an annual Registered Number 2877315 Forward Land 5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income across an individuals Land which is owned or controlled by Redrow, generally under Registrars entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on option, which is being promoted through the planning system Computershare Investor Services PLC their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax bracket in order to ultimately achieve a residential planning consent.
The Pavilions and personal circumstances.
The Company will continue to provide Bridgwater Road registered shareholders with a confirmation of the dividends paid by How Key Performance Indicator Measures are Calculated: Bristol Redrow plc and this should be included with any other dividend BS99 6ZZ Land bank years income received when calculating and reporting total dividend income No.
of plots in owned land bank at 30 June divided by received.
It is the shareholders responsibility to include all dividend Stockbrokers no.
of legal completions in financial year income when calculating any tax liability.
Barclays 5 The North Colonnade Sales outlets This change was announced by the Chancellor, as part of the UK Canary Wharf No.
of sales outlets open at 30 June Government Budget in July 2015.
If you have any tax queries, please London contact a Financial Advisor.
of private reservations per week in financial Peel Hunt year divided by average no.
of sales outlets Moor House Revenue 120 London Wall Revenue per consolidated income statement London EC2Y 5ET Number of trainees No.
of trainees at 30 June Independent Auditors  LLP HBF customer satisfaction rating Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Independent HBF customer satisfaction rating score 101 Barbirolli Square Lower Mosley Street Accident incident rate by site Manchester No.
of notifiable accidents in financial year divided by M2 3PW average no.
of sites Solicitors Return on capital employed ROCE Linklaters LLP Operating profit before exceptional items adjusted for joint One Silk Street ventures as a percentage of opening and closing capital employed London EC2Y 8HQ Return on equity ROE Profit before tax before exceptional items adjusted for joint Financial Public Relations Consultants ventures as a percentage of opening and closing net assets Instinctif Partners 65 Gresham Street Earnings per share EPS London Profit attributable to ordinary equity shareholders excluding EC2V 7NQ exceptional items and deferred tax rate changes divided by the weighted average no.
of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year
