STRATEGIC FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 79 78 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED GOVERNANCE REPORT We keep our policies under review to ensure they a two year delayed basis.
In line with this policy, REMUNERATION POLICY remain appropriate in the face of evolving best the targets for 2016 will be disclosed in the 2018 The Remuneration Policy became effective following shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
An extract practice, regulatory developments and market report, and this report contains the bonus targets of the remuneration policy table with updated references, where relevant and supporting disclosures is reproduced below for data.
We will do so again during the year ahead, for the 2014 financial year.
The full Remuneration Policy is contained on pages 62 to 68 of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts which ahead of submitting our Policy to shareholders is available in the investor relations section of the Groups website, http: investors.
REMUNERATION DECISION FOR 2017 at the 2017 AGM, as referred to earlier.
Policy Table for Executive Directors The Committee has decided to award salary 2016 OUTCOMES AN OUTSTANDING YEAR increases to the Chairman, Chief Executive Component Purpose Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Performance Framework As described in detail on pages 03 to 61 of this and Finance Director of 2.5%, effective from Annual Report, 2016 was another outstanding 1 July 2016.
The average increase for all other Base Salary To provide a market competitive Salaries are determined by the Committee There is no prescribed maximum N A element of fixed remuneration taking into account all relevant factors salary.
Any salary increases will year for Redrow, which saw: employees across the business was 3.6%.
to attract and retain leaders of such as: the size and complexity of the normally be in line with those of the required calibre to deliver Company, the scope and responsibilities the wider workforce.
Record profits of 250m before tax The annual bonus and LTIP will operate in line the strategy.
of the role, the skills and experience of The Committee has discretion to with the Policy.
The annual bonus will continue the individual, and performance in role.
Legal completions increasing by 17% award larger increases where it to be based on a balanced scorecard of equal The Committees assessment of the considers this appropriate, such Record turnover of 1.38bn, up 20% competitive market positioning of base as to reflect for example : performance measures PBT, ROCE and a measure salaries is based on consideration of Underlying EPS increasing to 55.4p a significant change in the size based on the number of outlets opened replacing market data from UK companies of similar and complexity of the Company: size and complexity, and companies in the the previously used measure based on order book ROCE increasing to 24.2% housebuilding sector.
an increase in scope and to better align with strategic and operational responsibility of the role, Closing private order book increasing to 807m Salaries are normally reviewed annually, priorities for the year.
We will consider including or a change in role: with any changes effective at the start of c12,700 plots added to the current land bank a fourth measure, land bank, once current market the financial year.
an Executive Director being moved to market positioning conditions stabilise.
The EPS and ROCE target Salaries effective from 1 July 2016 are over time: and The alignment between performance and reward shown on page 83 of the Annual ranges for the 2017 LTIP award are set out on which underpins our executive remuneration Remuneration Report.
an Executive Director falling page 86 of this report.
below competitive market framework, is reflected in the outcomes for the positioning.
annual bonus and LTIP: SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Benefits To provide a market competitive Benefits may include: a company car or Benefit provision, for which N A benefits package to support the equivalent cash allowance, private medical there is no prescribed monetary Based on exceptional performance, with the We remain committed to an ongoing and Director in fulfilling their role.
insurance, permanent health insurance, maximum, is set at an appropriate targets for maximum payment exceeded for transparent dialogue with our shareholders on fixed term group income protection and a level for the specific nature and all four of the annual bonus measures PBT, the issue of executive remuneration.
In putting death in service benefit.
ROCE, land bank, order book, the Committee in place our current Policy, I engaged with a Executive Directors may also participate in Participation in all employee share all-employee share plans on the same basis plans is subject to statutory limits.
determined that the annual bonus should pay number of our major shareholders and their as other employees.
out at the maximum level of 100% of salary for valuable feedback was taken into account by the The Committee has discretion to include, all of the Executive Directors.
50% of this will be Committee in finalising the Policy.
November 2015 where it considers it appropriate to do so, paid in shares and half of these will be deferred was the first advisory vote on the Remuneration other benefits to reflect specific individual circumstances, such as housing, relocation, for a period of one year and the remaining half Report since the Policy was applied in November travel, or other expatriate allowances.
deferred for two years: and 2014, and 99.58% of votes cast were in favour.
We Pension To provide a market competitive Individuals are eligible to participate in the The maximum DC contribution N A will continue to engage with our shareholders on element of fixed remuneration Companys Defined Contribution DC cash supplement in respect of a EPS of 55.4p and ROCE of 24.2% in 2016 any significant changes to Policy.
pension scheme or receive a pension financial year is 20% of were both significantly above the targets allowance cash supplement.
for maximum vesting of 48p and 20%, The Annual Report on Remuneration will again be Executive Directors who are members of respectively.
The Committee therefore the Companys Defined Benefit DB put to an advisory vote at the Annual General pension scheme will continue to receive determined that the 2013 LTIP award should Meeting in November 2016.
The year ended benefits under the terms of that scheme.
vest in full on 24 September 2016.
There will be no new entrants or accrual of 30 June 2016 was another year of significant future benefits under the DB scheme.
The Committee has considered and reaffirmed the progress for Redrow and in this context, we look This report has been prepared policy introduced in 2014 that, given the highly forward to receiving your support on our approach in accordance with the UK competitive nature of the sector, annual bonus to remuneration at this Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Governance Code, the relevant provisions of the performance targets remain commercially Listing Rules and Schedule 8 sensitive immediately following the year end.
of the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Therefore, subject to the Committee determining Groups Accounts and Debbie Hewitt that they are no longer commercially sensitive, it Reports Amendment Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Regulations 2013. is intended that bonus targets will be disclosed on
