STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 111 110 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 16 Leases.
This standard replaces the current guidance in IAS Impact of New Standards and Interpretations continued 1.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 17 and is a far-reaching change in accounting by lessees in particular.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
IFRS 15, Revenue Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future Under IAS 17, lessees were required to make a distinction between a from contracts with customers is a converged standard from the events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Management considers the key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical finance lease on balance sheet and an operating lease off balance IASB and FASB on revenue recognition.
The standard will improve accounting judgements relate to: sheet.
IFRS 16 now requires lessees to recognise a lease liability the financial reporting of revenue and improve comparability of the Carrying value of inventories reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use asset for top line in financial statements globally.
Published May 2014, The Group carries inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value less cash on account.
The IASB has included an optional effective date: annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. exemption for certain short-term leases and leases of low-value Amendment to IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers.
Due to the nature of development timescales, it is routinely necessary to estimate costs to complete and future revenues and to allocate assets: however, this exemption can only be applied by lessees.
For These amendments comprise clarifications of the guidance on non-unit specific development costs between units legally completing in the current financial year and in future periods.
A full review of the net lessors, the accounting stays almost the same.
However, as the IASB identifying performance obligations, accounting for licences of realisable value of inventories was undertaken by the Group as at 30 June 2016.
Reasonably foreseeable changes in the assumptions used would has updated the guidance on the definition of a lease as well as the intellectual property and the principal versus agent assessment not have a significant impact on the net realisable value.
guidance on the combination and separation of contracts, lessors gross versus net revenue presentation.
New and amended will also be affected by the new standard.
At the very least, the new Pensions illustrative examples have been added for each of those areas of accounting model for lessees is expected to impact negotiations The Group has utilised assumptions including a rate of return on assets, mortality assumptions and a discount rate having been advised by its guidance.
The IASB has also included additional practical between lessors and lessees.
Under IFRS 16, a contract is, or actuary.
To the extent that such assumed rates are different from what actually transpires, the retirement benefit obligations of the Group expedients related to transition to the new revenue standard.
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use would change.
Published April 2016, effective date: annual periods beginning of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for on or after 1 January 2018. consideration.
Published January 2016, effective annual periods 2.
Operating profit IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
This standard replaces the guidance beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with earlier application 2016 2015 in IAS 39.
It includes requirements on the classification and permitted if IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Note m m measurement of financial assets and liabilities: it also includes an is also applied.
The Group has not yet assessed the full impact of Operating profit is stated after charging: expected credit losses model that replaces the current incurred loss this standard.
Inventories expensed in the year 13 992 826 impairment model.
Published July 2014, effective date: annual Amendment to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 on investment entities applying periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
These amendments clarify the Amendments to IFRS 9, Financial instruments, regarding general application of the consolidation exception for investment entities Operating leases plant and machinery 2 2 hedge accounting.
These amendments to IFRS 9, Financial and their subsidiaries.
Published December 2014, effective date: other 1 1 instruments, bring into effect a substantial overhaul of hedge annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. accounting that will allow entities to better reflect their risk Research and development expenditure 1 1 management activities in the financial statements.
Published Auditors remuneration fees payable to Companys Auditors for audit services i November 2013, effective date: annual periods beginning on or fees payable to Companys Auditors for other services ii after 1 January 2018.
Fees payable to Companys Auditors comprise: i fees payable for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 30,000 2015: 30,000 and fees payable for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 145,000 2015: 117,000. ii A uditors remuneration for other services comprised 20,000 2015: 20,000 in respect of an independent review of the half-yearly financial statements Audit related assurance services, and 8,000 2015: 8,000 in respect of iXBRL tagging Taxation compliance services.
