46 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Achievement The Groups Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement articulates 2016 OBJECTIVES our commitment to adiverse workforce and environment that Develop compliance plan Planning underway for GDPR respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of gender, for impending EU implementation in May 2018 race or other characteristics.
Our D&I Strategy is focused on General Data Protection RELX-wide contact point translating the Statement into practical action.
Among its Regulations GDPR designated commitments is maintaining a D&I Advisory Group composed of a senior business and HR leader from each business unit, Implement enhanced Policy for two year automatic supported by a broader D&I Working Group.
We encourage email retention email deletion approved, with Employee Resource Groups ERGs, such as womens forums and policy for improved implementation in planning pride groups, which facilitate support, mentoring and community consistency and stages involvement.
We tracked the number of ERGs in 2016 and added efficiency Communication and training new networks, including an African American network in New York planned to ensure understanding and a pride group in the Philippines.
of policy and how to save email required forlonger During 2016, we introduced Women in Technology, a mentoring programme for mid-career women in technology across our four Expand network of Training of internal investigators business units.
100% of mentees are female, as are 60% of mentors, global compliance has continued pairings are between colleagues in different business units.
We are investigators Relationships strengthened with providing external resources and a webinar series to showcase the auditing and law firms with a tech career journeys of senior women, including members of the global presence to ensure external RELX Board.
investigation resources as needed RELX is a signatory to the Womens Empowerment Principles Continuing investigations training WEPs, a UNGC and UN Women initiative designed to help for HR representatives: solidified companies empower women and promote gender equality.
relationship with external Wearehelping to develop a benchmarking tool for the WEPs to investigator for Asia Pacific region help companies understand where there are gaps between the principles and their performance.
In 2016, Elsevier attained the 2017 OBJECTIVES first level of the EDGE gender equality certification, which has Expand fraud prevention and cyber security awareness involved employee surveys across eight countries, an external efforts and continue to tighten related controls review of policies and procedures and gender pay benchmarking.
More structured approach to compliance training for In 2016, we conducted pulse surveys across the business to gain employees in higher risk roles and locations across the feedback from employees on how we are doing to make RELX Group Group a great place to work.
Broaden awareness of RELX Tax Principles in external communications, with internal training for relevant staff Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe workplace asoutlined in our Global Health and Safety Policy.
We concentrate OUR 2020 VISION on areas of greatest risk for example, warehouses, events and Undertake consistent actions that reinforce excellence in exhibitions.
However, as a primarily office-based company, our corporate governance and compliance with all applicable key impact areas are manual handling, slips, trips and falls.
To legislation and our principles and policies reduce our severity rate lost days per 200,000 hours worked, we conduct risk assessments and work with a third party in the US to assign a nurse case manager to each complex or severe claim.
People There were 22 lost time reportable cases in the year.
Our approximately 31,000 people are our strength.
Our workforce In the US, where we have the largest concentration of employees, is 52% female and 48% male, with an average length of service the CareConnect and REACH programmes promote workplace ofeight years.
There were 43% female and 57% male managers, well-being through health screenings, online assessments, and 28% female and 72% male senior operational managers.
stress awareness training and smoking cessation courses, with financial incentives for participation.
Female Male Board of Directors 3 30% 7 70% Our annual Fit2Win global wellbeing competition encourages employees to establish fitness teams to compete for cash prizes Senior operational 120 28% 313 72% for charities of their choice.
Across the Group, 108 teams took managers partand ran, walked, cycled and swam a total of 112,309 miles All employees 16,224 52% 14,976 48% 180,744km, a 14% increase in participation over 2015.
Senior operational managers are defined as those managers up to and including We organised a global campaign on mental health awareness, three reporting lines from the CEO featuring webinars, posters and special events.
More than 145 Full-time equivalent offices, covering 21,000 employees offered a mental health At year-end 2016, women made up 30% of the members of the provision including support or counselling.
We also created a new RELX Boards.
The two Executive Directors on the Boards are network of more than 90 Wellness Champions.
The Nominations Committee considers the knowledge, experience and background of individual Board directors.
