Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Corporate Responsibility 47 Achievement Our operations in the Philippines are working toward submitting 2016 OBJECTIVES abidfor a Philippines Quality Award in 2017 which involves Expand diversity and 8 new networks launched in the US, demonstrating excellence in managing and delivering quality inclusion Employee Europe and Asia Pacific: more than throughout the business.
Resource Groups 30 ERGs tracked overall ERGs We are committed to improving access to our products and services Communications campaign for D&I for all users, regardless of physical ability.
Our Accessibility Policy section of global intranet including aims to lead the industry in providing accessibility solutions to a feature news story in Friday customers with products that are operable, understandable and Update to all employees robust.
In 2016, members of the Accessibility Working Group logged Develop pilot UK pilot focused on mid-career over 150 accessibility projects and Elseviers Global Books Digital mentoring female technologists with Archive fulfilled more than 4,300 disability requests, 15% of them programme participation from all business units through AccessText.
org, a service it helped establish.
In 2016, we Mentees matched with a senior pursued our tiered model for accessibility, with the support of Chief female 60% or male technologist Technology Officers across the business.
In the year, we won the mentor in a business unit different Accessible Books Consortium Accessibility Award at London Book from their own Fairs International Excellence Awards2016.
Increase awareness Awareness campaign aligned with of mental health WHO Mental Health Day 2016 OBJECTIVES Achievement atwork Launch of new well-being pages Expand Quality First Expansion to customer support, onthe Wire and new wellness Principles QFPs supplier management and other champions network established beyond content and data areas to other areas such as Launched series of short, customer support 2017 OBJECTIVES shareable videos 3 Minutes onQuality on global intranet Scale women in technology mentoring programme: mentor pilot for high-potential women New CR as a Sales Tool New brief videos for customer - Enhance flexible working policies offerings, including facing staff introduced as well as video content longer town hall by CR Director Introduce a workplace well-being award scheme Outreach to key customer groups OUR 2020 VISION including law school students and Focus on talent development, diversity and inclusion andwellfirms being, to ensure a high-performing and satisfiedworkforce Hold 15 accessibility 15 accessibility feedback feedback sessions to sessions held, e. g. Elsevier engage people with Scopus SciVal accessible chart 4.
Customers disabilities function tests with blind users: In 2016, we surveyed more than 162,000 customers through results presented at CSUN NetPromoter Score measuring customer advocacy and 2016 International Conference business dashboard programmes.
This allows us to deepen on Accessibility ourunderstanding of customer needs and drives improvements.
Audio descriptions for blind Results are reviewed by the CEO and senior operational managers users of Elsevier Animation and communicated to staff.
To aid colleagues, during the year our Collection which provide 3D CR as a Sales Tool Working Group produced short videos on the visualisations of body systems competitive advantage of ourCR focus, with advice on how to Over 140 individual engage customers on CR issues, helping build deeper accessibility projects logged relationships through discussion of shared values.
across the company Our cross-business Editorial Policy Working Group pursued opportunities to highlight the Editorial Policy in action in the year, 2017 OBJECTIVES including in a video webinar by Richard Horton, Editor of The Pursue Philippine Quality Award as a demonstration of Lancet who spoke on the importance of editorial independence in drive for quality excellence the face of challenges.
In 2016, we recorded training on the Create role plays for sales staff showing CR as a Sales Tool Editorial Policy for our Socially Responsible Supplier Academy.
in action We advanced our Quality First Principles QFPs in the year, Improve reporting on compliance with customer completing 28 QFP self-assessments.
We recorded new video accessibility requests offerings on the QFPs for teams across the Group and updated the Principles to take account of new areas such as customer support OUR 2020 VISION and supplier management, in addition to content and data.
Increase our customer base across our four business units through active listening and engagement, and a focus on editorial and quality standards, and accessibility 48 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 The Rule of Law Tracker: making the link between the rule of law and sustainable development The rule of law is the foundation for the development of peaceful, equitable and prosperous societies.
However, according to the United Nations, approximately 4bnpeople still live outside of its protection.
Quantifying the relationship between the rule of law and sustainable development.
In 2016, LexisNexis Legal & Professional launched the Rule of Law Impact Tracker to quantify the relationship between the rule of law and social and economic development.
Our Rule of Law Impact Tracker quantifies the Using data from the World Bank, Transparency International and the World Justice Project, the Tracker provides evidence that stronger rule transformational impact that the rule of law oflaw typically means higher GDP per capita, higher life expectancy can have on social and economic development.
andlower child mortality, homicide and corruption.
Forexample, It shows whats possible if we work together a5%increase in the rule of law score adds one additional year to life toeffect change.
Denmark had the highest rule of law ranking on the Tracker, scoring 87%: Venezuela scored lowest, with a score of32%.
Mike Walsh CEO of LexisNexis Legal & Professional atLexisNexis Risk Solutions 102 Countries scored against 44 rule of law indicators across eight categories
