Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Corporate Responsibility 49 5.
Supply chain RE Cares, our global community programme, supports employee We require our suppliers to meet the high standards we set for volunteering and giving that makes a positive impact on society.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates adherence to Inaddition to local initiatives of importance to employees, the all laws and best practice in areas such as human rights, labour programmes core focus is on education for disadvantaged young and the environment.
Through our Socially Responsible Supplier people that advances one or more of our unique contributions as SRS database, in 2016 we tracked 383 key suppliers and those abusiness.
Staff have up to two days paid leave per year for their located in a high-risk country as designated by our Supplier Risk own community work.
We donated 3.4m in cash including Tool which incorporates eight indicators, including human through matching gifts and the equivalent of 16.5m in products, trafficking information from the US State Department and services and staff time in 2016.
39% of employees were engaged Environmental Performance Index results produced by Yale and involunteering through RE Cares and we reached more than Columbia universities.
The tracking list changes year-on-year 45,000 disadvantaged young people through time, in-kind and based on the number of suppliers we do business with who meet cash donations.
In 2016, we deployed an impact measurement tool the required criteria.
We started 2016 with 88% of suppliers on the adapted from LBG, a community investment network we have SRS tracking list as signatories to the Supplier Code and reached been a member of for more than ten years, to record and assess the 89% by year end, including 96% considered core 18% of the total impact on beneficiaries and employees of our central initiatives.
are suppliers who have provided internal codes in lieu, which we believe to be as effective as our own.
We have embedded signing A network of approximately 210 RE Cares Champions ensures the the Supplier Code into our e-sourcing tool as a criterion for doing vibrancy of our community engagement around the world.
Each business with us, and have an additional 2,500 suppliers who have September, we hold RE Cares Month to celebrate our community signed the Supplier Code.
In 2016, afocus was on raising funds toward our $100,000 minimum commitment to help global fundraising partner, SOS Specialist supply chain auditors, Intertek, undertook 89 external Childrens Villages with a project to help girls in Yamoussoukro, audits of suppliers located in high-risk countries as part of their Ivory Coast return to education after working in dangerous comprehensive Workplace Conditions Assessment and Corrective conditions as baggage carriers in local markets.
During RE Cares and Preventative Actions programme.
Any incidence of Month, we held our annual global book drive, yielding over 3,900 non-compliance identified in the audit process triggers a corrective books for local and developing world readers, and announced action plan agreed with the supplier, with remediation required on thewinners of the sixth Recognising Those Who Care Awards all issues.
tohighlight the exceptional contributions to RE Cares of The roll-out of our US Supplier Diversity programme continued tenindividuals and four RE Cares teams.
Individual winners in2016 with efforts to increase the number of diverse suppliers fromacross the business travelled to Chennai, India, working with invited to bid on relevant sourcing projects.
The process has two charities, the Hope Foundation and the Udhavum Ullangal resulted in an increased spend to $317m with diverse suppliers.
The trip was led for the sixth time by Feedback is provided to diverse suppliers after the competitive senior leader Youngsuk YS Chi, Director of Corporate Affairs.
bidding process to improve their opportunities for development.
2016 OBJECTIVES Achievement 2016 OBJECTIVES Achievement 60% of RE Cares RE Cares Champions Increase core suppliers 96% core minimum Champions supporting cross-divisional Steering Group as signatories to the goal95% new global fundraising created to support Objective and Supplier Code 89% total tracking list goal partnership other RE Cares priorities 85% 65% of Champions supported Use Corrective and 89 Workplace Conditions global fundraising partnership Preventative Actions tool Assessment WCA and with SOS Childrens Villages to ensure continuous CAPA audits completed Deploy project Project assessment template improvement in audit results goal 80 assessment template launched following extensive Continue to advance Increased diverse spend to to gain feedback on key consultation: 91% of beneficiary US Supplier Diversity $317m central initiatives organisations reported a lot or programme 12.7% diversity spend US some improvement in their rolling 4 quarters at Q3 2016 ability to improve existing or provide new services 2017 OBJECTIVES Ensure at least 60% of offices have an RE Cares Champion Increase skills-based volunteering OUR 2020 VISION Use our unique contributions to advance education for disadvantaged young people: track the impact of community investment activities
