42 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Corporate responsibility information, which spurs innovation and enables critical Corporate responsibility CR decisionmaking.
To broaden access to its content, Elsevier supports programmes where resources are often scarce.
Among ensures good management of them is Research4Life, a partnership with UN agencies and approximately 200 publishers: we provide core and cutting-edge risks and opportunities, helps us scientific information to researchers in more than 100 developing countries.
As a founding partner and the leading contributor, attract and retain the best people Elsevier provides over a quarter of the material available in Research4Life, encompassing approximately 3,000 Elsevier and strengthens our corporate journals and 20,000 e-books.
In 2016, there were more than 4m Research4Life article downloads from ScienceDirect.
It means performing Elsevier Foundation continued to support scientific publishing in developing countries including the African Journal Partnership tothe highest commercial and Project to further expand our Publishers Without Borders programme, which pairs our colleagues expertise in research ethical standards and channelling with the needs of the African health science community.
In the year, Christiana Figueres, former head of the UN Framework our knowledge and strengths, as Convention on Climate Change, spoke at the launch of Lancet Countdown, an initiative of the Lancets Planetary Health global leaders in our industries, Commission, tracking progress on health and climate change.
Risk & Business Analytics Consistent engagement with stakeholders, including Over the last four years, LexisNexis Risk Solutions Tax Refund shareholders, employees, governments and communities where Investigative Solution has saved 11 US states more than $500m we operate, helps us identify our material corporate responsibility by averting false tax refunds.
In addition, by 2016 LexisNexis Risk issues.
Stakeholder feedback ensures alignment with our Solutions enabled five US states to identify more than $4.4m in non-financial objectives.
The Board of Directors, senior fraudulent supplemental nutrition Food Stamp payments since management and the Corporate Responsibility Forum oversee 2012: this will result in an estimated annual savings of $5.6m by CRobjectives and monitor performance against them.
stopping programme participants from receiving multiple benefits within and in more than one state.
We concentrate on the contributions we make as a business Accuity provides comprehensive data and software to control and on good management of the material areas that affect financial processing risk and compliance.
Its tools like Global allcompanies: WatchList help in the fight against anti-money laundering AML.
In 2016, it produced the report, the Challenges of AML for Law 1.
Our unique contributions Firms 2016, to highlight sector feedback on due diligence and 2.
Governance opportunities to improve compliance processes.
People In 2016, Proagrica, dedicated to feeding the world sustainably through its content and solutions, launched Agility Crops to 4.
Customers provide real-time data to improve productivity.
Community 750,000 hectares of cropping across the UK, it allows in-season soil and other analytics for the first time, replacing retrospective 6.
Supply chain studies which can only be used historically.
Environment During 2016, RBI became a founding member of the Tech Talent Charter, committed to increasing the ratio of women and 1.
Our unique contributions under-represented groups working in technology.
Together with other peers, RBI is working to encourage education and best We make a positive impact on society through our knowledge, practice in tech recruitment and retention of diverse tech talent.
resources and skills, including: Legal universal sustainable access to information LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes the rule of law and advance of science and health access to justice through its products and services.
During 2016, colleagues continued their efforts to support the transition to protection of society democracy in Myanmar.
They have been building support for promotion of the rule of law and justice apilot programme in a rural village in Myanmar, Wellgyi, to establish a land registry database.
fostering communities The difficulties farmers face include being arrested and jailed for Scientific, Technical & Medical farming what they believe to be their land.
Helping them measure Elsevier, the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical and and document land boundaries is the first step and we are medical information, plays an important role in advancing human collaborating with other companies such as Google and Edulink welfare and economic progress through its science and health inthis effort.
Business review Corporate Responsibility 43 ADAM: helping bring homemore missing children with an enhanced technology platform For over 16 years LexisNexis Risk Solutions has worked with the National Center forMissing & Exploited Children providing the technology behind ADAM DISTRIBUTION AREA ONE Automated Delivery of Alerts on Missing Children.
The programme was named in memory of Adam Walsh, a six-year old child kidnapped and murdered in 1981, and distributes alerts on missing children in minutes across the US.
Since launching in 2000, the programme has located 163 children, including eight in 2016.
When a child is reported missing, the ADAM system can send out on average 1,500 posters each hour tobusinesses and other community organisations in the specifi c area where the child was last seen.
Thereare around 1.8m community recipients registered in the ADAM database and new organisations can sign up easily DISTRIBUTION onthe LexisNexis Risk Solutions website.
In 2016, 2.1m posters AREA TWO were distributed.
In 2016, a team of LexisNexis Risk Solutions colleagues redesigned the platform to provide new capabilities, including animproved user interface, new mapping technologies and an email function, which increase the productivity and effi ciency DISTRIBUTION ofthe National Center for Missing & Exploited Children team, AREA THREE helping bring even more missing children home.
2.1m missing child alerts distributed in 2016 163 Missing children foundsince 2000 We had a dream team of LexisNexis Risk Solutions colleagues who volunteered their time and expertise todeliver the new ADAM application.
Trish McCall Director Program Management atLexisNexis Risk Solutions 44 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Exhibitions With support from the Environmental Challenge, Loowatt will Reed Exhibitions events help strengthen communities and support address low access to quality sanitation in Madagascars capital our corporate responsibility focus areas.
New York Comic Con, city, Antananarivo, through investment in local manufacturing which attracted over 185,000 attendees in 2016, supports the Comic capacity for toilet refills.
Book Legal Defense Fund, a non-profit organisation protecting the Missing People is a UK charity focused on bringing missing rights of comics artists, publishers, retailers, librarians and fans.
children and adults back together with their families.
The The show featured sessions on fighting censorship.
organisation uses Risk & Business Analytics tools, including Each year, World Travel Market WTM, Reed Exhibitions flagship Tracesmart, to help in the search.
In the year, we took part in the show for the travel and tourism industry, holds World Responsible UK National Crime Agencys Child Rescue Alert Development Tourism Day.
In 2016, the focus was on benchmarking progress Board supported by partners such as Missing People and Amber inresponsible tourism.
In the year, BBC World News journalist Alert Europe, which works across 16 European countries to Aaron Heslehurst held a roundtable on what more can be done protect endangered missing children to help spread awareness 20years on from the post-Apartheid government in South Africas of the Child Rescue Alert service which notifies police forces and adoption of the Principles of Responsible Tourism in their national members of the public when a child goes missing in a certain tourism policy, which helped launch the responsible tourism location.
We have been exploring with Missing People and Amber movement.
Alert Europe how our big data expertise can further their work.
Achievement He asked panel members, including Justin Francis co-founder of 2016 OBJECTIVES Responsible Travel, about successes and failures.
There is now a Advance of science Partnership between Elsevier World Responsible Tourism Day at all WTM shows including South and health: Launch Foundation and Amref Health Africa, Dubai and Brazil.
ofInnovations in established to support HealthInformation continuing education for nurses Across RELX Group programme in East Africa through a scalable The 17 Sustainable Development Goals SDGs set out the United m-learning solution Nations agenda for people, planet and prosperity over the next 15 Working with Mdecins Sans years.
They were adopted by heads of state at the UN in 2015.
The 17 Frontires MSF to support goals aim to address critical needs for humanity and the research capacity building at environment.
In 2016, we engaged stakeholders and mapped an their Niger research and training centre: in-kind access to SDG Resource Centre which will showcase RELX content, tools and ScienceDirect, Scopus, Embase events from across the Group that can help drive forward the SDGs.
and Clinical Key The free SDG Resource Centre will support the UN, governments, Protection of society: NCMEC US now using new researchers, companies, non governmental organisations NGOs New tools and support ADAM programme platform: and individuals in their efforts to advance this vital global agenda.
in the search for missing useof new platform under Our 2016 CR Forum Stakeholder Session focused on the SDGs and children with key partners consideration by Missing People involved internal experts, peers, government and NGOs on National Center for UK : developing missing business and RELX Group and the SDGs.
Missing and Exploited persons police training model Children NCMEC, with Amber Alert Europe During the UN General Assembly in September 2016, we contributed Missing People and Amber to the launch of the Global Alliance for Reporting Progress on Alert Europe Peaceful, Just and Inclusive Societies SDG 16, providing the only private sector statement on the positive role business can play by Promotion of the rule of Hosted rule of law roundtable law and access to justice: with UN Global Compact UK, exercising their unique contributions to society.
Assist United Nations continuing in 2017: highlighted To replace ad hoc responses, in the year, we convened a Global Compact UNGC in throughout the year including cross-business working group to establish a strategy for promoting awareness and athighlevel panel, Peaceful, responding to disasters and emergencies: we have strengthened support for Business for Just, and Inclusive Societies for our ties with primary relief partner the International Federation of the Rule of Law Sustainable Development: Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, and will focus on providing Delivering on the 2030 Agenda, relevant in-kind contributions that can address shortand at the 2016 UN General Assembly long-term needs in the wake of disasters and emergencies.
WTM 2016: focus on responsible Fostering communities: Expand reach of World tourism in India and South Africa 2016 marked the sixth year of the RELX Group Environmental Travel Markets World with community representatives Challenge, focused on providing improved and sustainable access Responsible Tourism Day invited to showcase their to water and sanitation where it is presently at risk.
The $50,000 sustainable tourism offerings first prize winner, UK-based Loowatt Ltd. has developed a andimpact proprietary waterless and energy-generating toilet system that Universal, sustainable Disaster relief priorities mapped isclean and odourless, creating social and environmental benefits access to information: with core business strengths and that include water savings, carbon emissions reduction, improved Establish process to draft of RELX Group disaster human health and job creation.
Award-winning Loowatts ensure relief and other relief strategy patented core technology can fit into toilets of any shape or size agencies gain access New internal disasters and and seals human waste into biodegradable polymer film.
Waste is to relevant information emergencies working group then emptied into an anaerobic digester where it is converted into during disasters and launched natural gas or fertiliser creating local jobs and revenue streams.
