Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Corporate Responsibility 45 and issued a new Respectful Workplace Training Course for all 2017 OBJECTIVES employees.
Advance of science and health: expand Research Without Borders, which pairs African health and medical journals Key elements of the Code and policies are reinforced throughout the with our leading US UK biomedical journals to build year in general employee materials and messages targeted to editorial skills through journal mentoring and training special audiences such as those in higher-risk roles or locations.
With a dedicated Compliance Communication Director, weekly Protection of society: help broaden reach of ADAM emails and regular articles have increased readership of programme: new training programme on missing people compliance and governance materials in 2016 including a third for UK law enforcement series of popular information security awareness videos, Promotion of the rule of law and access to justice: assist Restricted Intelligence, compliance videos and compliance UNGC in embedding Business for the Rule of Law and work challenge contests.
with UN Development Program and Member States to support reporting progress on SDGs Reports of violations of the Code or related policies are promptly investigated, with careful tracking and monitoring of violations and Fostering communities: World Travel Market WTM to related mitigation and remediation efforts by Compliance teams convene travel industry roundtable for collaboration on across the business.
We broadened training of investigators in 2016, responsible tourism key challenges, including anticovering areas like employee relations, data security and financial trafficking initiatives misconduct.
Universal, sustainable access to information: launch free access SDG Resource Centre In 2016, we remained diligent in our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable bribery and sanctions laws, including OUR 2020 VISION monitoring and auditing implementation of our anti-bribery Use our products and expertise to advance the Sustainable requirements.
Development Goals SDGs, among them: As a signatory to the UNGC and its principles, encompassing SDG3: Good health and well-being labour, environment, anti-corruption and human rights, we SDG4: Quality education demonstrated leadership in 2016 by serving on the UNGC Advisory SDG10: Reduced inequalities Group for the UK, the UNGC Supply Chain Advisory Group and the Caring for Climate Steering Group.
We played a leadership role in SDG13: Climate action the UNGCs launch of Business for the Rule of Law, the Guide for SDG16: Peace, justice and strong institutions General Counsel on Corporate Sustainability and the Advisory Including by creating an SDG Resource Centre Group on Supply Chain Sustainability.
UNGC peers judged our Communication on Progress, required of signatories annually, to have attained Advanced Level.
We were also active in the Dutch 2.
Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct the Code is In 2016, the RELX Group global business paid 402m in corporate disseminated to every employee and sets the standards for our taxes.
We are a responsible corporate taxpayer and conduct our corporate and individual conduct.
Among other topics, the Code tax affairs to ensure compliance with all laws and relevant continues to address fair competition, anti-bribery, conflicts of regulations in the countries in which we operate.
Tax is an interest, employment practices, data protection and appropriate important issue for our direct stakeholders and society at large.
In use of company property and information.
It also encourages 2016, RELX Group provided additional clarity on its approach to reporting of violations with an anonymous reporting option and taxation by making its Tax Principles available to all onits website.
prohibits retaliation against anyone who makes a report.
The Code In addition, the RELX Tax team continued to engage with incorporates the principles of the UNGC and stresses our policymakers and special interest groups on all sides of the debate commitment to human rights.
In accordance with the UNs Guiding to provide practical experience on how companies interact with Principles on Business and Human Rights, we have considered tax laws and to suggest ways such laws can advance governments where and how we operate and have concluded that there is low policy objectives.
human rights risk in our direct employment activities for more The Statement of Investment Principles for the UK pension information on human rights see Supply chain on page 49.
In scheme indicates that the extent to which social, environmental or 2016, we released our Modern Slavery Act Statement which ethical issues may have a financial impact on the portfolio or may highlights how we are working internally, through our supply chain have a detrimental effect on the strength of the employer and externally with partners to address the risk of slavery and covenant, is taken into account when making investment human trafficking.
CR issues are relevant to other investment decisions All employees are given required training on the 2016 Code.
Among our sustainable investments is Agworld, a training is part of the compliance curriculum for new hires and is collaborative farming solution that allows farmers and reissued at regular intervals to ensure full understanding and agronomists to work together as one.
Agworld provides data acknowledgement of the Code and associated policies.
Mandatory capture and communication tools and maps to increase periodic training covers specific code topics, such as anti-bribery, production efficiency.
competition laws and protecting data and preventing workplace harassment, supplemented by in-person training for higher-risk roles.
In 2016, we broadened our workplace harassment training
