144 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 14 Equity dividends continued Until the end of 2015, dividends paid to RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders were, other than in special circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the prevailing UK tax credit received by certain RELX PLC shareholders.
With effect from 6 April 2016 theUK government abolished the dividend tax credits previously available to certain RELX PLC shareholders, impacting dividends paid after this date.
The Employee Benefit Trust EBT has currently waived the right to receive dividends on RELX PLC and RELX NV shares.
For RELX PLC, this waiver has been applied to dividends paid in 2016, and was also applicable in 2015 and 2014.
For RELX NV, this waiver has been applied to dividends paid in 2016, and was also applicable in 2015.
15 Goodwill Accounting policy On the acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase consideration is allocated between the net tangible and intangible assets on a fair value basis, with any excess purchase consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions also includes amounts corresponding to deferred tax liabilities recognised in respect of acquired intangible assets.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment when there is an indicator that the asset may be impaired and at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss ondisposal.
At each statement of financial position date, the carrying amounts of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, value in use estimates are made based on the cash flows of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is any indication that the asset may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its net carrying amount, the net carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately inthe income statement in administration and other expenses.
Critical judgement and key source of estimation uncertainty The carrying amounts of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in each business are reviewed for impairment at least annually.
The carrying amounts of all other intangible assets are reviewed where there are indications of possible impairment.
Animpairment review involves a comparison of the carrying value of the asset with estimated values in use based on the latest management cash flow projections, approved by the Boards.
Key areas of judgement in estimating the values in use of businesses are the growth in cash flows over a forecast period of up to five years, the long-term growth rate assumed thereafter and the discount rate applied to the forecast cash flows.
A description of the key assumptions and sensitivities is provided below.
2016 2015 m m At start of year 5,231 4,981 Acquisitions 222 100 Disposals reclassified as held for sale 19 34 Exchange translation differences 958 184 At end of year 6,392 5,231 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 145 15 Goodwill continued The carrying amount of goodwill is after cumulative amortisation of 1,284m 2015: 1,105m, which was charged prior to the adoption ofIFRS, and 9m 2015: 9m of subsequent impairment charges recorded in prior years.
Impairment review Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets is performed at least annually in accordance with the methodology described above.
There were no charges for impairment of goodwill in 2016 2015: nil: 2014: nil.
Goodwill is compiled and assessed among groups of cash generating units, which represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by management.
Typically, acquisitions are integrated into existing business units, and the goodwill arising is allocated to the groups of cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
As the business areas have become increasingly integrated and globalised, the current CGU allocation reflects the global leverage of assets, skills, knowledge and technology platforms, and the monitoring of goodwill by management.
GOODWILL 2016 2015 m m Scientific, Technical & Medical 1,549 1,301 Risk & Business Analytics 2,829 2,270 Legal 1,499 1,230 Exhibitions 515 430 Total 6,392 5,231 The key assumptions used for each group of cash generating units are disclosed below: KEY ASSUMPTIONS 2016 2015 Nominal Nominal long-term long-term Pre-tax market Pre-tax market discount rate growth rate discount rate growth rate Scientific, Technical & Medical 10% 3% 10% 3% Risk & Business Analytics 12% 3% 12% 3% Legal 12% 2% 12% 2% Exhibitions 13% 3% 13% 3% The pre-tax discount rates used are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted to reflect a risk premium specific to each business.
Nominal long-term market growth rates, which are applied after the forecast period of up to five years, do not exceed the long-term average growth prospects for the sectors and territories in which the businesses operate.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed based on changes in key assumptions considered to be reasonably possible by management: an increase in the discount rate of 0.5%: a decrease in the compound annual growth rate for cash flow in the five-year forecast period of 2.0%: and a decrease in the nominal long-term market growth rates of 0.5%.
The sensitivity analysis shows that no impairment charges would result from these scenarios.
