190 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Shareholder information Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2016 Information for RELX PLC ordinary The RELX Group Annual Reports and consolidated Financial shareholders Statements for RELX PLC and RELX NV for the year ended 31 December 2016, and the Corporate Governance Statement Shareholder services ofRELX NV are available on the Groups website, and from the The RELX PLC ordinary share register is administered by Equiniti registered offices of the respective parent companies shown Limited.
Equiniti provides a free online portal for shareholders at onpage 192.
Additional financial information, including the interim www.
Shareview allows shareholders to monitor and full-year results announcements, trading updates and the value of their shareholdings, view their dividend payments and presentations is also available on the Groups website, submit dividend mandate instructions.
submit their proxy voting instructions ahead of company meetings, The consolidated financial statements set out in the Annual as well as update their personal contact details.
Shareview Reports and Financial Statements are expressed in sterling, with Dealing provides a share purchase and sale facility.
Equinitis summary financial information expressed in euros and US contact details are shown on page 192. dollars.
The financial statements of RELX PLC and RELX NV are expressed in sterling and euros respectively.
Electronic communications While hard copy shareholder communications continue to be Share price information available to those shareholders requesting them, in accordance RELX PLCs ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company's articles of Exchange.
association, RELX PLC uses the Groups website as the main method of communicating with shareholders.
By registering their PLC details online at Shareview, shareholders can be notified by email Trading symbol REL when shareholder communications are published on the Groups ISIN GB00B2B0DG97 website.
Shareholders can also use the Shareview website to appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at shareholder meetings.
RELX NVs ordinary shares are traded on the Euronext Shareholders who hold their RELX PLC shares through CREST Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
may appoint proxies for shareholder meetings through the CREST NV electronic proxy appointment service by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
Trading symbol REN ISIN NL000614495 Dividend mandates Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid directly The RELX PLC and RELX NV ordinary shares are traded on the into a UK bank or building society account.
This method of payment New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts and ensures the account is credited on the dividend payment date.
A dividend mandate form can be obtained online at PLC ADRs NV ADRs www.
co. uk, or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 192.
Ratio to ordinary shares 1:1 1:1 Trading symbol RELX RENX Equiniti has established a service for overseas shareholders in over 90 countries, which enables shareholders to have their CUSIP code 759530108 75955B102 dividends automatically converted from sterling and paid directly into their nominated bank account.
Further details of this service, The RELX PLC and RELX NV ordinary share prices and the ADR and the fees applicable, are available at www.
co. uk or prices may be obtained from the Groups website, other online by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 192. sources and the financial pages of some newspapers.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION VISIT THE INVESTOR Dividend Reinvestment Plan CENTRE SECTION OF THE GROUPS WEBSITE Shareholders can choose to reinvest their RELX PLC dividends by WWW.
COM INVESTORCENTRE purchasing further shares through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP provided by Equiniti.
Further information concerning the DRIP facility, together with the terms and conditions and an application form can be obtained online at www.
co. uk dividends or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 192.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Shareholder information 191 Share dealing service How to avoid share fraud and boiler room scams A telephone and internet dealing service is available through The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has issued some guidance Equiniti, which provides a simple way for UK resident shareholders on how to recognise and avoid investment fraud: to buy or sell RELX PLC shares.
For telephone dealing call Legitimate firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact 03456037037 between 8.30am and 5.30pm UK time, you unexpectedly with an offer to buy or sell shares.
Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to www.
You will need your shareholder If you receive an unsolicited phone call, do not get into a account number shown on your dividend confirmation.
conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
ShareGift Check the Financial Services Register available at The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation www.
uk register to see if the person and firm scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
If you wish to call makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme can be the person or firm back, only use the contact details listed obtained from the ShareGift website at www.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have any Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation contact details on the Register, or if you are told that they are On 28 July 1986, each RELX PLC ordinary share of 1 nominal value out of date.
was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p each.
On 2 May Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 1997, each 25p ordinary share was sub-divided into two ordinary www.
On 7 January 2008, the ordinary shares of 12.5p each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new ordinary If you do buy or sell shares through an unauthorised firm, you 51 shares of 14 116p nominal value for every 67 ordinary shares of will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or the 12.5p each held.
Consider obtaining independent financial and professional Capital gains tax advice before you hand over any money.
If it sounds too good to The mid-market price of RELX PLCs 1 ordinary shares on be true it probably is.
Adjusting for the sub-divisions and share consolidation referred to above results in an equivalent mid-market How to report a scam 51 price of 40.72p for each existing ordinary share of 14 116p If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using the nominal value.
share fraud reporting form at www.
uk consumers scams, where you can find out more Warning to shareholders about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. unsolicited investment advice If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you should From time to time shareholders may receive unsolicited calls contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. from fraudsters.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams, sometimes known as boiler room scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000.
