124 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies Basis of preparation RELX PLC and RELX NV are separate, publicly-held entities.
RELX PLCs ordinary shares are listed in London and, through a depositary receipt, in New York, and RELX NVs ordinary shares are listed in Amsterdam and, through a depositary receipt, in New York.
RELX PLC and RELX NV jointly own RELX Group plc, which holds all the Groups operating businesses and financing activities.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are together known as the Group.
The Governing Agreement determines the equalisation ratio between RELX PLC and RELX NV shares.
One RELX PLC ordinary share confers an equivalent economic interest to one RELX NV ordinary share.
As a result of these arrangements, all shareholders can be regarded as having interests in a single economic entity.
Consequently, the Directors have concluded that the Group forms a single reporting entity for the presentation of consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the Group consolidated financial information represents the interests of both sets of shareholders and is presented by both RELX PLC and RELX NV as their respective consolidated financial statements.
The Directors of RELX PLC and RELX NV, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, subsidiaries of the Group are accounted for under the acquisition method and investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method.
All intra-group transactions and balances areeliminated.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, or interest in an associate or joint venture, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are attributed to the net assets, including identifiable intangible assets acquired.
Adjustments are made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the consolidated financial statements up to or from the date that control passes from or to the Group.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of the Group are identified separately from shareholders equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original acquisition and the non-controlling share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition.
Accounting policies The Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The accounting policies under IFRS are included in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies below are applied throughout the financial statements and are unchanged from those applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the combined financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 with the exception of changes to the calculation of earnings per share in 2015, which is set out in note 11.
Foreign exchange translation The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Exchange differences arising are recorded in the income statement other than where hedge accounting applies, as set out on pages 150 to 154.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Income and expense items and cash flows of foreign operations are translated at the average exchange rate for the period.
Significant individual items of income and expense and cash flows in foreign operations are translated at the rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative translation differences are recognised within the income statement in the period.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily forward contracts, to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks.
Details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of derivative financial instruments are set out on page 150.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 125 1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The most significant accounting policies in determining the financial condition and results of the Group, and those requiring the most subjective or complex judgement, relate to and are included in the following notes: valuation of goodwill and intangible assets notes 15 and 16 capitalisation of development spend note 16 taxation note 10 accounting for defined benefit pension schemes note 6.
Other significant accounting policies The accounting policy in respect of revenue recognition is also significant in determining the financial condition and results of the Group, although the application of this policy is more straightforward.
This policy is included in note 2.
Standards and amendments effective for the year The interpretations and amendments to IFRS effective for 2016 have not had a significant impact on the Groups accounting policies orreporting.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective New accounting standards and amendments and their expected impact on the future accounting policies and reporting of the Group areset out below.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for the 2018 financial year.
The standard replaces the existing classification and measurement requirements in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Adoption of the standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the measurement, presentation or disclosure of financial assetsand liabilities in the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for the 2018 financial year.
The new standard provides a single point of reference for revenue recognition, including guidance in relation to identification of the contract and licensing arrangements.
Based on managements assessment of the standard and current contracts in place, the adoption of IFRS 15 is not expected to have a material impact on the full year revenue or revenue growth rates.
IFRS 16 Leases effective for the 2019 financial year with earlier adoption permitted.
The standard replaces the existing leasing standard, IAS 17 Leases.
The new standard eliminates the distinction between operating and finance leases and requires lessees to recognise all leases with a lease term of greater than 12 months in the statement of financial position.
Based on the preliminary assessment performed, assets and liabilities will increase but there will not be a material impact on net assets or profit before tax on adoption of the standard.
Management will assess the full impact this standard will have on the Group during 2017.
Additionally, a number of amendments and interpretations have been issued which are not expected to have any significant impact on the Groups accounting policies and reporting.
