156 Additional information Glossary AER Actual exchange rate AGM Annual General Meeting APM Alternative performance measure Benelux Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg Board The Board of Directors of Rentokil Initial plc CEE Central and Eastern Europe CER Constant exchange rate see page 134 CGU Cash-generating unit Company Rentokil Initial plc CVC Customer Voice Counts Director A Director of Rentokil Initial plc EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation ELT Executive Leadership Team EPS Earnings per share FRC Financial Reporting Council FRS Financial Reporting Standards GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Group Rentokil Initial plc and its subsidiaries H&S Health and safety Haniel Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH HR Human Resources IAS International Accounting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IRR Internal rate of return ISAs International Standards on Auditing JV Joint venture KPI Key performance indicator LTA Lost time accident M&A Mergers and acquisitions MENAT Middle East, North Africa and Turkey NED Non-Executive Director NPS Net promoter score Parent Company Rentokil Initial plc PSP Rentokil Initial plc Performance Share Plan RIPS Rentokil Initial 2015 Pension Scheme SHE Safety, health and environment SID Senior Independent Director TSR Total shareholder return USP Unique selling point WDL Working days lost WHO World Health Organization Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 About us Rentokil Initial is a global leader in the provision of route-based services which protect people and enhance lives.
Our services include Pest Control, Hygiene and Workwear, as well as a range of other smaller specialist services including plants, medical services, property care and specialist hygiene.
We protect people from the dangers of pest-borne disease, the risks of poor hygiene or from injury in the workplace.
We enhance lives with services that protect the health and wellbeing of people, and the reputation of our customers brands.
Throughout the world demand for higher standards of public health, stricter food safety legislation and compliance with workplace safety regulations are driving demand forour service expertise.
Ours is an international services business operating in over 66 countries and employing some 32,150 people at the end of 2016.
Rentokil is the worlds leading commercial pest control company and our engine for growth.
Initial Hygiene is the global leader in hygiene services.
2 in Europe and the only player with scale across the four big Continental markets.
We analyse the progress and performance of the Company in three ways by region and business, part of our core business model, andby quadrant to drive execution of our strategy, including capital allocation.
Cautionary statement This report contains statements that are, or may be, forward-looking regarding the Groups financial position and results, business strategy, plans and objectives.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances and there are accordingly a number of factors which might cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and no representation or warranty, whether expressed or implied, is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with the Companys legal or regulatory obligations including under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, theCompany does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Information contained in this 2016 Annual Report relating to the Company or its share price, or the yield on its shares, should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance.
Nothing in this 2016 Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
This Report is printed on Printed at Principal Colour Ltd, Design LumiSilk paper and has been ISO14001 and FSC certified.
co. uk independently certified on behalf Print of the Forest Stewardship Council Principal Colour Ltd FSC.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
