Notes to the 2016 financial statements movements in gross liabilities arising from financing activities in addition 1 Principal accounting policies to the net debt reconciliation currently provided.
Corporate information The Group does not expect these pronouncements to have a significant Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
impact on the Groups financial statements.
Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, gold, industrial minerals borates, titanium dioxide and salt, iron ore, thermal and Mandatory beyond 2017 metallurgical coal and uranium.
Activities span the world and are IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with strongly represented in Australia and North America, with significant Customers and IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance businesses in Asia, Europe, Africa and South America.
Consideration are mandatory in 2018 and IFRS 16 Leases is mandatory in 2019.
Rio Tinto plc is incorporated in the UK and listed on the London and New York Stock Exchanges and Rio Tinto Limited is incorporated in Australia The Groups process of implementation of new pronouncements is in and listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Rio Tinto plcs registered four stages: office is at 6 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4AD, UK.
Rio Tinto Diagnostic the high-level identification of accounting issues in the Limiteds registered office is at 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, new pronouncement that will impact the Group.
Confirmation of understanding the detailed review of contracts or These financial statements consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and other relevant data and training for finance, commercial, procurement Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective and other teams.
subsidiaries together the Group and include the Groups share of joint Solution development identifying and progressing system and data arrangements and associates as explained in note 1 b below.
Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 Implementation.
were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on 1 March 2017.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of these pronouncements.
This work is ongoing and additional impacts may be identified later in the Notes 33 to 36 provide more information on the Groups subsidiaries, implementation process.
joint arrangements and associates and note 40 provides information on the Groups transactions with other related parties.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments endorsed by the EU The standard includes a single approach for the classification and Basis of preparation of the financial statements measurement of financial assets, based on cash flow characteristics and The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing the business model used for the management of the financial the Groups 2016 financial statements are set out below.
It introduces the expected credit loss model for impairment The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in of financial assets which replaces the incurred loss model used in IAS 39. accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies Lastly, the standard amends the rules on hedge accounting to align the reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards and in accounting treatment with the risk management practices of the accordance with applicable UK law, applicable Australian law as business.
amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Work to date has primarily focused on the Groups Treasury operations, Order dated 14 December 2015, Article 4 of the European Union IAS which hold the majority of the Groups financial instruments, with a high regulation and also with: level review of the rest of the Group.
In 2017, a more detailed review will International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the be completed including analysis at a business unit level.
Potential International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations differences identified to date relate to the alternative under IFRS 9 to issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS amortise the cost of hedging over the life of the hedging instrument this IC both as adopted by the European Union EU and which are is currently taken directly to the income statement under IAS 39, and mandatory for EU reporting as at 31 December 2016: and  International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB of increased application of hedge accounting.
The Group does not and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS IC which are currently expect the impact of these changes to be material.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers endorsed by the EU The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue related .
 to the transfer of promised goods or services when control of the goods amendments, standards or interpretations that have been issued but are or services passes to customers.
The amount of revenue recognised not yet mandatory.
should reflect the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial Work to date has focused primarily on the Iron Ore and Aluminium statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 except for the product groups, as these together account for over 70 per cent of the implementation of a number of minor amendments issued by the IASB Groups sales revenue, with a limited review of contracts at other product and endorsed by the EU which have been applied for the first time in groups.
In 2017, further review of contracts will be undertaken at all 2016.
These new pronouncements do not have a significant impact on businesses.
To date, no material measurement differences have been the Groups financial statements and therefore prior-period financial identified between IAS 18, the current revenue recognition standard, and statements have not been restated for these pronouncements.
Mandatory for 2017 not yet endorsed by the EU The Group sells a significant proportion of its products on CFR or CIF Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Incoterms.
This means that the Group is responsible for providing Unrealised Losses.
These amendments on the recognition of deferred tax shipping services after the date at which control of the goods passes to assets for unrealised losses clarify how to account for deferred tax assets the customer at the loading port.
Under IAS 18, the Group recognises related to debt instruments measured at fair value.
such shipping and other freight revenue and accrues the associated costs in full on loading.
The impact of treating freight, where applicable, IAS 7 Statement of cash flows, Narrow-scope amendments.
The as a separate performance obligation and therefore recognising revenue amendments introduce an additional disclosure that will enable users of over time would not have materially impacted revenue, costs or earnings financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from as at 31 December 2016. financing activities.
The Group will be required to provide information on 116 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION IFRS 15 as well as IFRS 9 requires certain additional disclosures, in These assumptions, judgments and estimates are based on particular in relation to the impact of provisional pricing and, where managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, applicable, .
having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ materially from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Key The Group expects to adopt the modified transitional approach to areas of judgment and estimation uncertainty are highlighted below and implementation where any transitional adjustment is recognised in further information is contained in the accounting policies and or the retained earnings at the date of implementation of the standard without notes to the financial statements.
The new standard will only be applied to contracts that remain in force at the transition date.
Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration not yet endorsed by the EU Dual listed companies reporting see Dual listed companies structure The Interpretation, which was issued on 8 December 2016, addresses on page 115 : how to determine the date of a transaction for the purpose of Determination of Cash Generating Units CGUs, review of asset determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of an asset, carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the expense or income or part of it when a related non-monetary asset or recoverability of goodwill note 1 e and i, note 6, note 12 and non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance note 13: consideration in a foreign currency is derecognised.
Estimation of asset lives note 1 e and i : The Group is currently evaluating the impact of this pronouncement.
Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates note 1 j : IFRS 16 Leases not yet endorsed by the EU Provision for onerous contracts note 1 i : Under the new standard, a lessee is in essence required to: Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 1 k : a recognise all right of use assets and lease liabilities, with the  h : exception of short term under 12 months and low value leases, Recognition of deferred tax on mining rights recognised in on the balance sheet.
The liability is initially measured at the acquisitions note 1 m : present value of future lease payments for the lease term.
This includes variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate Uncertain tax positions note 1 m, note 9 and note 31: but excludes other variable lease payments.
The right of use Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 c, e asset reflects the lease liability, initial direct costs, any lease and f : payments made before the commencement date of the lease, Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and development less any lease incentives and, where applicable, provision for costs prior to the decision to mine construct note 1 f : dismantling and restoration.
Identification of functional currencies note 1 d : b recognise depreciation of right of use assets and interest on Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs note 1 n and lease liabilities in the income statement over the lease term.
note 45: c separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion Basis of consolidation note 1 b and note 42: presented within financing activities and interest portion which Contingenciesnote31.
the Group presents in operating activities in the cash flow Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of statement.
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and This standard will have an impact on the Groups earnings and liabilities within the next financial year are: shareholders funds at transition and in future years.
It must be Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals implemented retrospectively, either with the restatement of and the recoverability of goodwill note1 e and i, note 6, note 12 comparatives or with the cumulative impact of application recognised as and note 13: at 1 January 2019 under the modified retrospective approach.
Estimation of asset lives note 1 e and i : IFRS 16 contains a number of practical expedients, one of which permits Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates the classification of existing contracts as leases under current accounting note 1 j : standards to be carried over to IFRS 16.
Provision for onerous contracts note 1 i : Under the modified retrospective approach, on a lease-by-lease basis, Estimation of close-down, restoration and environmental costs and the right of use of an asset may be deemed to be equivalent to the  k andnote26: liability at transition or calculated retrospectively as at inception of the Uncertain tax positions note 1 m, note 9 and note 31: lease.
Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 c, e and Under IFRS 16 the present value of the Groups operating lease f : commitments as defined under the new standard, excluding low value Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and development leases and short term leases, will be shown as right of use assets and as costs prior to the decision to mine construct note 1 f : lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
Information on the undiscounted Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs note 1 n and amount of the Groups operating lease commitments under IAS 17, the note 45: current leasing standard, is disclosed in note 31.
considering the available options for transition.
These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical To date, work has focused on the identification of the provisions of the accounting policies and estimates on pages 125 to 127. standard which will most impact the Group.
In 2017, work on these issues and their resolution will continue and work on the detailed review a Accounting convention of contracts and financial reporting impacts will commence as well as The financial information included in the financial statements for the year assessment of likely changes to systems.
ended 31 December 2016, and for the related comparative periods, has Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the estimation uncertainty revaluation of certain derivative contracts and financial assets, the impact of fair value hedge accounting on the hedged item and the The preparation of the financial statements requires management to accounting for post-employment assets and obligations.
The Groups make assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.
applying accounting policies and in making critical accounting estimates.
com 117 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars and all The Group uses the term equity accounted units EAUs to refer to values are rounded to the nearest million US$m unless otherwise associates and JVs collectively.
Under the equity accounting method the stated.
investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any goodwill on acquisition.
In subsequent periods the carrying amount of the Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to measure or investment is adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the EAUs retained present them on the same basis as current period figures.
post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
Long term loans to EAUs that in substance form part of the Groups net b Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 investment quasi equity loans are financial assets but are included in All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on the line Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the consolidation.
When the Groups share of losses in an EAU equals or ,  Where necessary, adjustments are made to the locally reported assets, other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further liabilities, and results of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to continue to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
to make payments on behalf of the EAU.
Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either of the Acquisitions note 37 Companies.
Control exists where either of the Companies has: power Under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, over the entities, that is, existing rights that give it the current ability to the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets direct the relevant activities of the entities those that significantly affect acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed the the Companies returns : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its identifiable net assets on the basis of their fair value at the date of involvement with the entities: and the ability to use its power to affect acquisition, which is the date on which control is obtained.
 The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree, the fair value of any asset or Unincorporated arrangements: In some cases, the Group participates in liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement and any unincorporated arrangements and has rights to its share of the assets equity interests issued by the Group.
Costs related to the acquisition of a and obligations for its share of the liabilities of the arrangement rather subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
than a right to a net return, but does not share joint control.
In such The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any cases, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities: revenue non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair from the sale of its share of the output and its share of any revenue value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of generated from the sale of the output by the unincorporated arrangement: and its share of expenses.
All such amounts are measured the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Any shortfall in accordance with the terms of the arrangement, which is usually in is immediately recognised in the income statement.
proportion to the Groups interest in the arrangement.
These amounts Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within are recorded in the Groups financial statements on the appropriate lines.
12 months of the acquisition date.
Joint arrangements: A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which two Non-controlling interests in the acquiree, that are present ownership or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys agreed sharing of control such that decisions about the relevant activities net assets in the event of liquidation, are recognised by the Group in of the arrangement those that significantly affect the Companies one of two ways with the choice being available on an  require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
They can be measured at either the non-controlling The Group has two types of joint arrangements: interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets or at fair value.
In some cases, non-controlling interests may be treated as Joint operations JO : A JO is a joint arrangement in which the parties equity options and valued on that basis.
Goodwill see note e and that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the amounts attributable to non-controlling interests will differ depending on liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
This includes situations where the the basis used.
parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output, Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
In relation to its acquiree,  interest in a JO, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its share of any with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
The cash cost revenue generated from the sale of the output by the JO: and its share of  expenses.
All such amounts are measured in accordance with the terms Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
of the arrangement, which is usually in proportion to the Groups interest Where the Group increases its ownership interest in a subsidiary, the in the JO.
These amounts are recorded in the Groups financial difference between the purchase price and the carrying value of the statements on the appropriate lines.
share of net assets acquired is recorded in equity.
The cash cost of such purchases is included within Financing activities in the cash flow Joint ventures JV : A JV is a joint arrangement in which the parties that statement.
share joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
JVs are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint Associates: An associate is an entity, that is neither a subsidiary nor a control or significant influence commences.
joint arrangement, over which the Group has significant influence.
Disposals note 37 Significant influence is presumed to exist where there is neither control Individual non-current assets or disposal groups that is, groups of nor joint control and the Group has over 20 per cent of the voting rights, assets and liabilities to be disposed of by sale or otherwise in a single .
Significant transaction are classified as held for sale if the following criteria are influence can arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent of the metattheperiodend: voting rights if it has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
Investments in associates the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
transaction rather than through continuing use: and 118 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present The Groups products are sold to customers under contracts which vary condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such in tenure and pricing mechanisms, including some volumes sold in the sales: and spot market.
Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
the sale is highly probable.
Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The comparative balance sheet proportion of iron ore volumes being sold on the spot market.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at the fair value determined at the acquisition date.
For these assets Certain of the Groups products are provisionally priced at the date acquired for resale no profits or losses are recognised between the revenue is recognised, however, with the exception of copper, prices are acquisition date and the disposal date, unless there is a subsequent generally finalised within the quarter of the month of shipment.
Substantially all iron ore sales are reflected at final prices in On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated the results for the period.
Final prices for copper concentrate are and, if applicable, equity accounting ceases.
normally determined between 30 to 180 days after delivery to the If control is lost, any interest in the entity retained by the Group is customer.
Revenue for provisionally priced copper sales is recognised at remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is the period end based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration recognised in the income statement.
The retained interest may be receivable based on relevant forward market prices.
The change in fair subsequently accounted for as a joint venture, joint operation, associate .
or financial asset depending on the facts.
Certain amounts previously Information on provisionally priced sales contracts is included in note 30. recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the entity disposed of, or for which control, joint control or significant influence has d Currency translation ceased, may be recycled to the income statement.
The cash proceeds of The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for joint disposals are included within Investing activities in the cash flow arrangements and associates, is the currency of the primary economic statement.
environment in which that entity operates.
For many entities, this is the Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss currency of the country in which they are located.
Transactions of control are accounted for in equity.
The cash proceeds of such denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency disposals are included within Financing activities in the cash flow at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at period-end exchange rates.
c Sales revenue The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties.
All shipping and handling presentation currency most reliably reflects the global business costs incurred by the Group are recognised as operating costs.
Amounts performance of the Group as a whole.
On consolidation, income billed to customers in respect of shipping and handling are classified as statement items for each entity are translated from the functional sales revenue where the Group is responsible for freight.
If the Group is currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange, except for acting solely as an agent, amounts billed to customers are offset against material one-off transactions, which are translated at the rate prevailing therelevantcosts.
Balance sheet items are translated into services are rendered to and accepted by the customer.
US dollars at period-end exchange rates.
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of , wheretheyarein entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are substance a profit-based tax, within taxation.
recognised directly in the currency translation reserve.
These translation Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive income, with included in sales revenue.
Sundry revenue, incidental to the main the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds revenue-generating activities of the operations, is treated as a credit to share capital which are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
, insubstance, partoftheGroupsnet Third-party commodity swap arrangements for delivery and receipt of investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
taken to the currency translation reserve.
Sales of copper concentrate are stated at their invoiced amount which is Except as noted above, or in relation to derivative contracts designated net of treatment and refining charges.
as cash flow hedges, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the following criteria are met: e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and evaluation expenditure notes 12 and 13 the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: Goodwill is not amortised: it is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually impairment.
Investments in EAUs, including any goodwill, are tested for associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has been has been retained: identified.
 i. the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost.
Finite-life flow to the Group: and intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight-line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Intangible the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be  measured reliably.
are not yet ready for use are not amortised: they are reviewed annually In most instances, sales revenue is recognised when the product is for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically indicate a potential impairment in accordance with accounting policy the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the note 1 i. customers premises.
com 119 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued , Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new assets, in based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash by management, are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this judgment commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms or expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
Interest on borrowings evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant related to construction or development projects is capitalised, at the rate incremental cost can be expected for indefinite future periods in view of payable on project-specific debt if applicable or at the Group or the Groups investment intentions.
The life cycles of the products and subsidiarys cost of borrowing if not, until the point when substantially all processes that depend on the asset are also considered.
the activities that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended usearecomplete.
 f Exploration and evaluation note 13 borrowing when the debt was negotiated based on the financing Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly requirements of that subsidiary.
attributable to: Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less researching and analysing existing exploration data: accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: of property, plant and equipment includes, where applicable, the examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or estimated close-down and restoration costs associated with the asset.
compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
h Deferred stripping note 14 Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with In open pit mining operations, overburden and other waste materials economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration activity undertaken by must be removed to access ore from which minerals can be extracted the Group is not capitalised.
The process of removing overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a mine or pit, Evaluation expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or before production commences, stripping costs related to a component of other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
an orebody are capitalised as part of the cost of construction of the mine Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high or pit and are subsequently amortised over the life of the mine or pit degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is on a units of production basis.
commercially viable, that is the project will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it is considered probable that In order for production phase stripping costs to qualify for capitalisation future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
as a stripping activity asset, three criteria must be met: The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure for it must be probable that there will be an economic benefit in a future undeveloped mining projects projects for which the decision to mine has accounting period because the stripping activity has improved access not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the to the orebody: Group are reviewed at each reporting date for indicators of impairment it must be possible to identify the component of the orebody for in accordance with IFRS 6 and when indicators are identified, are tested which access has been improved: and in accordance with IAS 36.
Evaluation expenditure for non-mining projects is reviewed and tested under IAS 36. it must be possible to reliably measure the costs that relate to the stripping activity.
In the case of undeveloped mining projects which have arisen through acquisition, the allocation of the purchase price consideration may result A component is a specific section of the orebody that is made more in undeveloped properties being recognised at an earlier stage of project accessible by the stripping activity.
It will typically be a subset of the evaluation compared with projects arising from the Groups exploration larger orebody that is distinguished by a separate useful economic life and evaluation programme.
The impairment review is based on a status for example, a pushback.
report summarising the Groups intentions to recover value through :theextractionof development, sale or other partnering arrangements.
Subsequent ore in the current period and improved access to ore which will be expenditure on acquired undeveloped projects is only capitalised if it extracted in future periods.
When the cost of stripping which has a future meets the high degree of confidence threshold discussed above.
benefit is not distinguishable from the cost of producing current In some cases, undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to inventories, the stripping cost is allocated to each of these activities orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
Where this is based on a relevant production measure using a life-of-component strip the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into ratio.
The ratio divides the tonnage of waste mined for the component for production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the the period either by the quantity of ore mined for the component or by output when existing smelters or refineries are closed.
the quantity of minerals contained in the ore mined for the component.
In some operations, the quantity of ore is a more appropriate basis for g Property, plant and equipment note 14 allocating costs, particularly where there are significant by-products.
Once an undeveloped mining project has been determined as Stripping costs for the component are deferred to the extent that the commercially viable and approval to mine has been given, expenditure current period ratio exceeds the life of component ratio.
The stripping other than that on land, buildings, plant, equipment and capital work in activity asset is depreciated on a units of production basis based on progress is capitalised under Mining properties and leases together expected production of either ore or contained minerals over the life of with any amount transferred from Exploration and evaluation.
Ore the component unless another method is more appropriate.
reserves may be declared for an undeveloped mining project before its commercial viability has been fully determined.
Evaluation costs may The life-of-component ratios are based on the ore reserves of the mine continue to be capitalised during the period between declaration of ore and for some mines, other mineral resources and the annual mine plan: reserves and approval to mine as further work is undertaken in order to , changestothat refine the development case to maximise the projects returns.
design will generally result in changes to the ratios.
Changes in other Costs of evaluation of a smelter or refinery prior to approval to develop technical or economic parameters that impact the ore reserves and for are capitalised under Capital works in progress, provided that there is a some mines, other mineral resources may also have an impact on the high degree of confidence that the project will be deemed to be life-of-component ratios even if they do not affect the mine design.
Changes to the ratios are accounted for prospectively.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION It may be the case that subsequent phases of stripping will access Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major additional ore and that these subsequent phases are only possible after categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of .
Whereapplicable, theGroupconsiders production and or straight-line basis as follows: .
Generally,  Units of production basis stripping activity asset for the purposes of calculating a life-ofFor mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, component ratio, and for the purposes of amortisation, is the ore to be consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to extracted from the originally identified component.
Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on a Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate units of production basis.
operations for the purpose of mine planning, initial stripping costs are In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
calculated based on production in the period as a percentage of total If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine expected production in current and future periods based on ore reserves planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
Other mineral resources the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial may be included in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances stripping i. e. overburden and other waste removal of the second and and where there is a high degree of confidence that they can be subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping.
This would be the case when the other mineral The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered resources do not yet have the status of ore reserves merely because the separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific necessary detailed evaluation work has not yet been performed and the circumstances.
responsible technical personnel agree that inclusion of a proportion of measured and indicated resources is appropriate based on historical The following factors would point towards the initial stripping costs for reserve conversion rates.
the individual pits being accounted for separately: Other mineral resources would usually only be included in unit of If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted production calculations where there are very large areas of contiguous consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
mineralisation, for which the economic viability is not sensitive to likely If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather variations in grade, as may be the case for certain iron ore, bauxite and than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
The required level of confidence is unlikely If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning to exist for minerals that are typically found in low-grade ore as and the sequencing of overburden removal and ore mining, rather compared with the above, such as copper or gold.
In these cases, than as an integrated unit.
specific areas of mineralisation have to be evaluated in considerable If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and detail before their economic status can be predicted with confidence.
subsequent pits are relatively large.
Where measured and indicated resources are used in the calculation of If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather depreciation for infrastructure, primarily rail and port, which will benefit than from a single orebody.
current and future mines, then the measured and indicated resources may relate to mines which are currently in production or to mines where If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly there is a high degree of confidence that they will be brought into influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits production in the future.
The quantum of mineral resources is combined, including the co-treatment or blending of the output from the determined taking into account future capital costs as required by the pits, then this would point to treatment as an integrated operation for the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
The depreciation calculation, purposes of accounting for initial stripping costs.
however, does not take into account future development costs for mines The relative importance of each of the above factors is considered in which are not yet in production.
Measured and indicated resources are each case.
currently incorporated into depreciation calculations in the Groups Australian iron ore business.
Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and leases within Property, plant and equipment or within Investments in equity Straight-line basis accounted units, as appropriate.
Amortisation of deferred stripping Assets within operations for which production is not expected to costs is included in Depreciation of property, plant and equipment fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical within Net operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
Impairment charges reversals of non-current assets i Depreciation and impairment notes 13 and 14 Impairment charges and reversals are assessed at the level of cashDepreciation of non-current assets generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over Assets, are identified as the smallest identifiable asset or group of the remaining life of the mine or smelter or refinery if that is shorter and assets that generate cash inflows, which are largely independent of the .
cash inflows from other assets.
Separate cash-generating units are , even The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often if the majority of those products are further processed internally.
dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where this is Impairment of financial assets is evaluated in accordance with IAS 39. the case, the lives of mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other long-lived processing equipment are generally In some cases, individual business units consist of several operations based on the expected life of the orebody.
The life of the orebody, in turn, with independent cash-generating streams which constitute separate .
of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life of a related Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units if that is the service potential of long-lived assets.
Factors affecting the remaining lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal service potential of smelters include, for example, smelter technology management purposes, that are expected to benefit from the related and electricity purchase contracts when power is not sourced from the business combination.
All goodwill, intangible assets that have an companys, or in some cases a local governments, renewably sourced indefinite life and intangible assets that are not ready for use are tested electricity generating capacity.
annually for impairment as at 30 September, regardless of whether there The useful lives and residual values for material assets and categories of has been an impairment trigger or more frequently if events or changes assets are reviewed annually and changes are reflected prospectively.
in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
com 121 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are Anticipated enhancements to assets may be included in FVLCD reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying amount calculations and therefore, generally result in a higher value.
The Group conducts an internal review of the Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on asset values annually as at 30 September which is used as a source of the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect the information to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of current life of mine and or long-term production plans, which are based previously recognised impairment losses.
External factors, such as on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the changes in forecasted commodity prices, costs and other market factors level of return from investment, output and sequence of extraction.
The as well as internal factors such as cancellation of a project or reduced mine plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, project scope, are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment including waste-to-ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and or reversal of previously recognised impairment losses.
If any such metallurgical properties of the ore impacting process recoveries and indication exists then an impairment review is undertaken: the capacities of processing equipment that can be used.
The life-of-mine recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in plan and or long term production plans are, therefore, the basis for use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the forecasting production output and production costs in each future year.
relevant cash-generating unit in its current condition and fair value less Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for JORC purposes are costs of disposal FVLCD.
generally based on Rio Tintos commodity price forecasts, which assume When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is measured short-term market prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the by reference to FVLCD, this amount is further classified in accordance long-term price, generally over a period of three to five years.
For most with the fair value hierarchy for observable market data that is consistent commodities, these forecast commodity prices are derived from a with the unit of account for the cash-generating unit being tested.
The combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of Group considers that the best evidence of FVLCD is the value obtained the incentive price of these commodities.
These assessments often differ from an active market or binding sale agreement and, in this case, the .
TheGroupdoes recoverable amount is classified in the fair value hierarchy as level 1. not believe that published medium and long-term forward prices When FVLCD is based on quoted prices for equity instruments but necessarily provide a good indication of future levels because they tend adjusted to reflect factors such as a lack of liquidity in the market, the to be strongly influenced by spot prices.
The price forecasts used for ore recoverable amount is classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
No reserve estimation are generally consistent with those used for cash-generating units are currently assessed for impairment by impairment testing unless management deems that in certain economic reference to a recoverable amount based on FVLCD classified as level 1 environments, a market participant would not assign Rio Tintos view on or level 2. prices, in which case management estimates the assumptions that a market participant would be expected to use.
Where unobservable inputs are material to the measurement of the Forecast future cash flows of a cash-generating unit take into account recoverable amount, FVLCD is based on the best information available to the sales prices under existing sales contracts.
reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit in an orderly transaction between market participants at the  measurement date.
This is often estimated using discounted cash flow estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time techniques and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
The Groups weighted Where the recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCD based on average cost of capital is generally used as a starting point for discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk detailed life-of-mine and or long-term production plans.
The latter may profile of the countries in which the individual cash-generating units include brownfield expansions which have not yet been approved at the operate.
For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal appropriate authorisation level in the Group.
hurdle rates, which are generally higher than the Groups weighted average cost of capital, are used.
For developments funded with project The cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on managements finance, the debt component of the weighted average cost of capital may best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the be calculated by reference to the specific interest rate of the project future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration finance and anticipated leverage of the project.
For the purposes of determining FVLCD from a market participants perspective, the cash flows incorporate For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the managements price and cost assumptions in the short and medium impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
In the longer term, operating margins are assumed to remain estimating FVLCD, internal forecasts of exchange rates take into account constant where appropriate, as it is considered unlikely that a market spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and are kept participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer term.
The cash constant in real terms after five years.
The great majority of the Groups flow forecasts may include net cash flows expected to be realised from sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that the extraction, processing and sale of material that does not currently the currencies of countries in which the Group produces commodities qualify for inclusion in ore reserves.
Such non-reserve material is only strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash included when there is a high degree of confidence in its economic flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced.
This expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling and considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in sampling of areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing ore commodity prices to compensate to some extent for movements in the reserves.
Typically, the additional evaluation required to achieve reserves value of the US dollar, particularly against the Australian dollar and status for such material has not yet been done because this would Canadian dollar, and vice versa.
However, such compensating changes involve incurring evaluation costs earlier than is required for the efficient are not synchronised and do not fully offset each other.
In estimating planning and operation of the mine.
value in use, the present value of future cash flows in foreign currencies is translated at the spot exchange rate on the testing date.
As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long-term Non-current assets excluding goodwill that have suffered impairment production plan for the cash-generating unit.
This differs from value in are reviewed using the same basis for valuation of such assets as use which requires future cash flows to be estimated for the asset in its explained above whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate current condition and therefore does not include future cash flows that the impairment loss may no longer exist, or may have decreased.
If associated with improving or enhancing an assets performance.
appropriate an impairment reversal will be recognised.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION amount of the cash-generating unit after reversal must be the lower of and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within Property, a the recoverable amount, as calculated above, and b the carrying plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the lives of amount that would have been determined net of amortisation or .
 depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised for the cashclosed operations are charged credited to Net operating costs in the generating unit in prior periods.
An onerous contract is defined under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the Liabilities and Contingent Assets as a contract under which the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each balance the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
provision is required unless the related assets, which may be the wider The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing cash-generating unit of which the business unit forms part, are fully the provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting impaired or the contract becomes stranded as a result of a business period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown within Finance items decision.
j Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates Environmental costs result from environmental damage that was not a The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance compensation and penalties.
Provision is made for the estimated present with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral value of such costs at the balance sheet date.
These costs are charged to Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2012 the JORC code, which Net operating costs, except for the unwinding of the discount which is is produced by the Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee.
Ore reserves and, for certain mines, other mineral resources, determined Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs impairment charges and for forecasting the timing of the payment of become known, but can continue for many years depending on the close-down and restoration costs and the recovery of deferred tax nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
The depreciation and impairment policy above notes instances in l Inventories note 16 which mineral resources are taken into account for accounting purposes.
In addition, value may be attributed to mineral resources in purchase Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, price allocations undertaken for the purposes of business combination primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated accounting.
by reference to the cost levels experienced in the relevant month together with those in opening inventory.
The cost of raw materials and k Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 26 consumable stores is the purchase price.
The cost of partly-processed  , including: include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, the removal of labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly residual materials and the remediation of disturbed areas for mines and attributable to the extraction and processing of ore or the production certain refineries and smelters.
These provisions are based on all of alumina and aluminium: regulatory requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders.
Closure provisions are not made for those operations that the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, have no known restrictions on their lives as the closure dates cannot be plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore or reliably estimated.
This applies primarily to certain North American the production of alumina and aluminium: and smelters which have indefinite-lived water rights or power agreements production overheads.
for renewably sourced power with local governments.
Work in progress includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining or material.
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is production, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure available for further processing.
If there is significant uncertainty as to if is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter.
and when the stockpiled ore will be processed, the ore is expensed as , theGroups mined.
If the ore will not be processed within 12 months after the businesses estimate their costs using current restoration standards and balance sheet date, it is included within non-current assets and net techniques.
realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis.
Quantities of stockpiled ore are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
Close-down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting Certain estimates, including expected metal recoveries, are calculated period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, using available industry, engineering and scientific data, and are based on the net present value of the estimated future costs of periodically reassessed taking into account technical analysis and restoration to be incurred during the life of the operation and post historical performance.
Where appropriate, the provision is estimated using probability weighting of the different remediation and closure scenarios.
The m Taxation note 9 and note 17 obligation may occur during development or during the production phase  of a facility.
the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
It includes adjustments for tax Provisions for close-down and restoration costs do not include any expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
additional obligations which are expected to arise from future Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, Rio Tinto disturbance.
, and establishes provisions based on the Groups judgment of the most likely are reviewed at each reporting period during the life of the operation to amount of the liability, or recovery.
The estimates are also subject to formal review, with appropriate external support, at regular intervals.
Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with IAS 12.
The Group provides for deferred tax in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
The initial close-down and restoration provision is capitalised within These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in Property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent movements in the closegeneral, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Provision for deferred down and restoration provisions for ongoing operations, including those  resulting from new disturbance related to expansions or other activities and its income tax base which may be nil.
Even when there is no qualifying for capitalisation, updated cost estimates, changes to the income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax estimated lives of operations, changes to the timing of closure activities 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 123 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued purposes is not usually taken into account in determining the deferred Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial tax provision for the assets, unless they are classified as held for sale, recognition.
because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss primarily through use of the assets and not from disposal.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
n Post-employment benefits note 45 Derivatives, including embedded derivatives separated from the host The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans which provide contracts, are included within financial assets financial liabilities at fair lump sums, pensions, medical benefits and life insurance to retirees.
In value through profit or loss unless they are designated as hedging accordance with IAS 19, for post-employment defined benefit plans, the instruments.
difference between the fair value of any plan assets and the present b Loans and receivables  Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed balance sheet.
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Trade receivables are included within this category: however, trade receivables Where appropriate, the recognition of assets may be restricted to the subject to provisional pricing are valued as explained in note 1 c Sales present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of revenue.
refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
In determining the extent to which a refund will be available the Group has c Held-to-maturity considered whether any third party, such as a trustee or pension Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with committee, has the power to enhance benefits or to wind up a pension fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has plan without the Groups consent.
the intention and ability to hold to maturity and which do not qualify as loans and receivables.
Assets in this category are classified as Other The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans investments and are classified as current assets or non-current assets are the discount rate, the inflation rate and the mortality rate.
The based on their maturity.
discount rate is used to determine the net present value of the d Available-for-sale obligations, the interest cost on the obligations and the interest income Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that on plan assets.
The discount rate used is the yield on high-quality are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the corporate bonds with maturities and terms that match those of the postother categories.
Assets in this category are included in non-current employment obligations as closely as possible.
Where there is no assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the assets within 12 developed corporate bond market in a currency, the rate on government months of the balance sheet date or the asset matures within 12 bonds is used.
The inflation rate is used to project increases in future months.
benefit payments for those plans that have benefits linked to inflation.
Recognition and measurement The mortality rates are used to project the period over which benefits will All derivatives, available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets be paid, which is then discounted to arrive at the net present value of the at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, obligations.
with transaction costs expensed in the income statement, and are The current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held-tocurtailment or settlements are recognised in the income statement.
The maturity financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus interest cost less interest income on assets held in the plans is also transactions costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using charged to the income statement.
All amounts charged to the income the effective interest method.
statement in respect of these plans are included within Net operating The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units, as purposes are disclosed in note 30.
Movements on the hedging reserve appropriate.
are disclosed in note 29. ii Financial liabilities The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of o Cash and cash equivalents note 21 transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
For the purpose of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise: cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks, and shortThe Group participates in supply chain finance arrangements whereby term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known vendors may elect to receive early payment of their invoice from a bank amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in by factoring their receivable from Rio Tinto.
These arrangements do not value.
Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities in the balance modify the terms of the original liability and therefore, financial liabilities sheet.
subject to supply chain finance continue to be classified as trade payables.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents q Share-based payments note 44 .
The fair value of the Groups share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained p Financial instruments note 30 earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto i Financial assets Limited plans.
Classification The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated :atfair using either a lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity: and simulation model.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Groups policy The terms of each plan are considered at the balance sheet date to with regard to financial risk management is set out in note 30.
Generally, determine whether the plan should be accounted for as equity or cashthe Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in settled.
When the Group enters into derivative contracts, these , , offer transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and .
In liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
some jurisdictions, employees are granted cash-settled awards where 124 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION equity-settled awards are prohibited by local laws and regulations.
The outline judgments in relation to the testing of cash-generating units value of these awards is immaterial.
containing goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets respectively.
iii Estimation of asset lives and determination of ore reserve and The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by: the mineral resource estimates issuance of shares by the relevant parent company, the purchase of Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on shares on market, or the use of shares held in treasury which were an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to previously acquired as part of a share buy-back.
If the cost of shares the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for acquired to satisfy the plans differs from the expense charged, the the Group.
The factors considered in making this judgment include the difference is taken to retained earnings or other reserves, as appropriate.
existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that r Share capital notes 27 and 28 renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly be expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Groups attributable to the issuance of new shares are shown in equity as a investment intentions.
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on Where any Group company purchases the Groups equity share capital information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly withtheJORCcode seenote1 j.  attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from and AAS are based on the ore reserves, and in some cases mineral equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Where such shares are resources, determined under the JORC code.
subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directlyattributable incremental costs and the related income tax effects, is The estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources requires judgment included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
to interpret available geological data and then to select an appropriate mining method and establish an extraction schedule.
It also requires s Segment reporting notes 2 and 3 assumptions about future commodity prices and demand, exchange Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the rates, production costs, transport costs, recovery rates and discount internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker ratesand, insomeinstances, .
The Group considers that Rio Tintos chief executive is the many uncertainties in the estimation process and assumptions that are CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new performance of the operating segments.
Critical accounting policies and estimates New geological data, as well as changes in assumptions and unforeseen i Dual listed companies reporting operational issues, may change ore reserve and mineral resource As described in the Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis estimates and may ultimately result in their restatement.
Changes in ore of financial statements on page 115, for the purposes of preparing the reserves and, in some cases, mineral resources, could have an impact on: IFRS compliant consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group, depreciation and amortisation rates: the carrying values of intangible both the DLC companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, are viewed assets and property, plant and equipment: deferred stripping as a single company, and the interests of shareholders of both calculations: provisions for close-down and restoration costs: and the companies are presented as the equity interests of shareholders in the recovery of deferred tax assets.
iv Provision for onerous contracts The 2016 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to Provision for an onerous contract is made only when the related assets, prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as which may be part of the wider cash-generating unit of which the amended by an order issued by the Australian Securities and business unit forms part, are fully impaired or the contract becomes Investments Commission on 14 December 2015.
The 2016 financial stranded as a result of a business decision.
Judgment is required as to statements disclose the effect of the adjustments to the Groups when it is appropriate to look to the wider cash-generating unit.
consolidated profit loss, consolidated total comprehensive income In some cases, product to be supplied under a sales contract can become loss and consolidated shareholders funds as prepared under IFRS as onerous when the cost of production exceeds the revenues or it is defined on page 116 that would be required under the version of purchased externally and sold at a loss.
The decision on sourcing will be International Financial Reporting Standards that is applicable in dependent on the Groups future marketing plans and changes in those Australia, referred to as Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
plans may impact the amount of any provision.
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial v Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 26 statements, as it most reliably reflects the Groups global business Provision is made for close-down, restoration and environmental costs performance.
when the obligation occurs, based on the net present value of estimated ii Determination of CGUs, review of asset carrying values, impairment future costs with, where appropriate, probability weighting of the charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill notes 6, 12 different remediation and closure scenarios.
The ultimate cost of closeand 13 down and restoration is uncertain, and management uses its judgment Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant and experience to determine the potential scope of rehabilitation work impairment charges or reversals of impairment.
Identification of the required and to provide for the costs associated with that work.
appropriate composition of cash-generating units requires judgment and, Adjustments are made to provisions when the range of possible together with estimates in respect of the timing of project expansions outcomes becomes sufficiently narrow to permit reliable estimation.
and the cost to complete asset construction, is critical to determining the Cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including: changes recoverable amounts for cash-generating units.
to the relevant legal or local national government ownership Where the recoverable amounts of the Groups cash-generating units are requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders: review assessed using analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting of remediation and relinquishment options: the emergence of new valuations are also sensitive to changes in estimates of long-term restoration techniques and the effects of inflation.
Experience gained at commodity prices, production timing and recovery rates, exchange rates, other mine or production sites is also a significant consideration, operating costs, reserve estimates, closure costs and discount rates and, although elements of the restoration and rehabilitation of each site are in some instances, the renewal of mining licences.
Some of these factors relatively unique to the site and, in some cases, there may be relatively are unique to each individual cash-generating unit.
limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical precedent Note 6 outlines the significant judgments, sensitivities and assumptions against which to benchmark cost estimates.
External experts support the made in measuring the impairments recorded and notes 12 and 13 cost estimation process where appropriate.
com 125 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation and viii Uncertain tax positions generally must comply with the Groups Capital Project Framework once The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is subject the operation is ten years from expected closure.
The expected timing of to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters expenditure included in cost estimates can also change, for example in during the normal course of business, including transfer pricing, indirect response to changes to expectations relating to ore reserves and mineral taxes and transaction related issues.
Where the amount of tax payable or resources, production rates, operating licences or economic conditions.
recoverable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on the Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an Groups judgment of the most likely amount of the liability, or recovery.
extended period of time depending on the specific site requirements.
Further information is given in note 9.
Some expenditure can continue into perpetuity.
In such cases, the ix Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 provision for these ongoing costs may be restricted to a period for which The Group has tax losses, and other deductible temporary differences, the costs can be reliably estimated.
mainly in Australian, Canadian, French, US and Mongolian taxable As noted in note k above, changes in closure and restoration provisions entities, that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
for ongoing operations are capitalised and therefore have no impact on Deferred tax assets have been recognised to the extent that their equity at the time the change is made.
Subsequently, such changes will recovery is probable, having regard to the availability of sufficient taxable impact depreciation and the unwind of discount.
temporary differences relating to the same taxation authority and the same taxable entity, the estimates of projected future taxable income of The main risk of changes to equity within the next year therefore relate these taxable entities and after taking account of specific risk factors that to changes to closure estimates for closed operations and any changes are expected to affect the recovery of these assets including risk of to environmental estimates including any arising from new incidents.
Cash flows must be discounted if this has a material effect.
The selection x Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and development of appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the risk-free costs prior to the decision to mine construct note 13 discount rate used for such close-down, restoration and environmental Under the Groups accounting policy, exploration expenditure on obligations requires judgment.
exploration activity undertaken by the Group is not capitalised.
As a result of all of the above factors, there could be significant Evaluation expenditure is capitalised when there is a high degree of adjustments to the provision for close-down, restoration and confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially environmental costs which would affect future financial results.
viable and it is therefore considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
vi Deferral of stripping costs note 14 Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production A projects commercial viability is determined based on whether it will phase of a surface mine or pit.
The identification of components within a provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks.
Once mine and of life of component strip ratios requires judgment and is commercial viability has been established, the Group will decide, at the dependent on an individual mines design and the estimates inherent appropriate authorisation level that is, the Rio Tinto Investment within that.
Changes to that design may introduce new components and Committee, and the board where appropriate whether the project or change the life of component strip ratios.
Changes in other technical should proceed.
In determining whether to approve a mining project, the or economic parameters that impact ore reserves may also have an Investment Committee reviews the ore reserves estimate together with impact on the life of component strip ratios, even if they do not affect the analyses of the net present value of the project and sensitivity analyses mines design.
Changes to the life of component strip ratios are for the key assumptions.
There are occasions when the Group concludes that the asset The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered recognition criteria are met at an earlier stage than the granting of separate or integrated operations determines whether initial stripping of approval to proceed.
In these cases, evaluation expenditure is capitalised a pit is deemed to be pre-production or production phase stripping and, if there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine the therefore, the amortisation base for those costs.
 on each mines specific circumstances and requires judgment: another confidence is greater than more likely than not that is, greater than mining company could make a different judgment even where the fact 50 per cent certainty and less than virtually certain that is, less than .
Determining whether there is a high degree of vii Recognition of deferred tax liabilities on mining rights recognised in confidence that the Group will ultimately determine that an evaluation acquisitions project is commercially viable requires a significant degree of judgment Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on and assessment of all relevant factors such as the nature and objective acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining of the project: the projects current stage: project timeline: current rightsthat, ingeneral, .
estimates of the projects net present value, including sensitivity Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying analyses for the key assumptions: and the main risks of the project.
value of the asset and its income tax base which may be nil.
Even Development expenditure incurred prior to the decision to proceed is where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital subject to the same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of gains tax purposes is not usually taken into account in determining the confidence that the Group will ultimately determine that a project is deferred tax liability for the assets, unless they are classified as held for commercially viable.
sale, because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral primarily through use of the assets and not from disposal.
For Resources, the criteria for the capitalisation of evaluation costs are acquisitions after 1 January 2004, such a deferred tax liability on applied consistently from period to period.
acquisition results in a consequential increase in the amounts attributed to goodwill.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, such deferred tax Subsequent recovery of the carrying value for evaluation costs depends was recognised in equity on transition to IFRS.
on successful development, sale or other partnering arrangements of the undeveloped project.
If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are charged to the income statement.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION xi Identification of functional currencies The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major The functional currency for each subsidiary, unincorporated pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its current arrangement, joint operation and equity accounted unit, is the currency mortality assumptions.
It also uses its judgment with respect to of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Determination allowances for future improvements in mortality having regard to of functional currency involves significant judgment and other companies standard improvement scales in each relevant country and after taking may make different judgments based on similar facts.
For many of external actuarial advice.
Rio Tintos businesses, their functional currency is the currency of the The discount rate used to value post-employment obligations is based country in which they operate.
The Group reconsiders the functional  currency of its businesses if there is a change in the underlying which have durations consistent with the nature of the obligations.
The transactions,  discount rate will vary from one period to another in line with movements economic environment.
in corporate bond yields, but at any given measurement date there is The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of relatively little estimation uncertainty.
This rate is also used to calculate non-current assets included in the balance sheet and, as a consequence, the interest cost on obligations and interest income on plan assets.
the amortisation of those assets included in the income statement.
It Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the previous also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the income balance sheet date and the sensitivity of the carrying value to changes in statement and in equity.
the assumptions are set out in note 45. xii Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs note 45 xiii Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 The value of the Groups obligations for post-employment benefits is Judgment is sometimes required to determine whether after considering dependent on the amount of benefits to be paid out and is discounted to all relevant factors, the Group has control, joint control or significant the balance sheet date.
This amount will vary depending on the influence over an entity.
Significant influence includes situations of  collective control see note 36a.
of final pay plans, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection, the number of individuals and how xiv Contingencies note 31 long individuals live in retirement.
Most of the Groups defined benefit Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility pension plans are closed to new entrants and the majority of the of any loss arising is considered remote based on the Groups views and obligations relate to former employees.
As a consequence, the carrying legal advice.
value of the Groups post-employment obligations is less sensitive to assumptions about future salary increases than it is to assumptions regarding future inflation.
The assumption regarding future inflation is based on market yields on inflation-linked instruments where possible, combined with consensus views on future inflation, and is derived using the same process at each reporting date.
Changes to the assumption, therefore, reflect changes to the market and consensus views of future inflation.
com 127 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments Rio Tintos management structure is based on the principal product to the Energy & Minerals product group: and, Diamonds businesses have groups in the tables below together with the global functions that moved from the previous Diamonds & Minerals product group to the support the business, which include Growth & Innovation.
The chief Copper & Diamonds product group.
executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their Tinto.
The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the performance of each primary product.
The Energy & Minerals product group includes product group based on a number of measures, including EBITDA, capital businesses with products such as uranium, borates, salt and titanium expenditure and operating cash flows, with underlying earnings and free dioxide feedstock together with coal operations and the Simandou iron cash flow being the key financial performance indicators.
Finance costs ore project, which is the responsibility of the Energy & Minerals product and net debt are managed on a Group basis.
The Copper & Diamonds product group includes certain gold operations in addition to copper and diamonds.
The operating segment data has been adjusted in accordance with the organisational restructure announced on 21 June 2016.
The main The financial information by business unit provided on pages 199 to 203 impacts are as follows: Iron Ore Company of Canada has moved from the of these financial statements provides additional voluntary disclosure Iron Ore product group to the Energy & Minerals product group: Coal which the Group considers useful to the users of the businesses have moved from the previous Copper & Coal product group financial statements.
2016 2015 2014 Gross sales revenue US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 14,605 13,952 21,585 Aluminium 9,458 10,117 12,123 Copper & Diamonds 4,524 5,592 7,183 Energy & Minerals 6,734 7,140 9,253 Other Operations 13 241 Reportable segments total 35,321 36,814 50,385 Inter-segment transactions 3 29 344 Product group total 35,318 36,785 50,041 Items excluded from underlying earnings 18 1 Gross sales revenue 35,336 36,784 50,041 Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for inter-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 1,555 1,955 2,377 Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 33,781 34,829 47,664 Gross sales revenue includes the Groups proportionate share of sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries of US$1,585 million 2015: US$1,987 million: 2014: US$2,533 million which are not included in consolidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales of US$30 million 2015: US$32 million: 2014: US$156 million to equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales revenue.
2016 2015 2014 Capital expenditure US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 868 1,608 4,038 Aluminium 916 1,682 2,021 Copper & Diamonds 1,441 1,576 2,097 Energy & Minerals 141 552 757 Other Operations 11 36 56 Reportable segments total 3,355 5,382 8,857 Other items 46 65 407 Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units 651 859 1,032 Capital expenditure per financial information by business units 2,658 4,588 7,418 Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 354 97 744 Capital expenditure per cash flow statement 3,012 4,685 8,162 Capital expenditure for reportable segments comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of joint operations and equity accounted units.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 2016 2015 2014 Depreciation and amortisation US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 1,645 1,744 1,789 Aluminium 1,250 1,172 1,180 Copper & Diamonds 1,601 1,261 1,219 Energy & Minerals 739 830 1,028 Other Operations 34 32 34 Reportable segments total 5,269 5,039 5,250 Other items 51 68 82 Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units 526 462 472 Depreciation and amortisation per note 4 4,794 4,645 4,860 Product group depreciation and amortisation for reportable segments totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries depreciation and amortisation and Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation, excluding equity accounted units, as shown in note 4.
These figures exclude impairment charges and reversals, which are excluded from underlying earnings.
2016 2015 2014 Tax charge US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 2,005 1,747 3,595 Aluminium 171 303 303 Copper & Diamonds 320 77 196 Energy & Minerals 331 122 140 Other Operations 73 73 135 Reportable segments total 2,114 2,022 4,099 Other items 191 192 193 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 27 25 34 Net finance costs 484 245 396 1,412 1,560 3,476 Tax charge credit excluded from underlying earnings 155 567 423 Tax charge per income statement 1,567 993 3,053 Further information on the tax charge credit excluded from underlying earnings is provided below in the section Underlying earnings.
2016 2015 2014 a Underlying earnings US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 4,611 3,940 7,963 Aluminium 947 1,118 1,248 Copper & Diamonds 18 370 1,118 Energy & Minerals 610 175 232 Other Operations 86 88 240 Reportable segments total 6,064 5,515 10,321 Other items 241 375 593 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 147 211 262 Net finance costs 576 389 161 Underlying earnings 5,100 4,540 9,305 a Items excluded from underlying earnings 483 5,406 2,778 Net earnings loss attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement 4,617 866 6,527 Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater excluded from net earnings loss in arriving at underlying earnings in understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations each period irrespective of materiality: and to enhance comparability of reporting periods.
Net gains losses on disposal of interests in businesses.
The measure of underlying earnings, in conjunction with net cash Impairment charges and reversals.
generated from operating activities and capital expenditure net of Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations.
proceeds on disposals, together with free cash flow, is used by the chief Exchange and derivative gains and losses.
This exclusion includes executive of Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups.
exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup Underlying earnings and net earnings loss both represent amounts net balances, gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not .
Thefollowingitemsare qualifying for hedge accounting and gains losses on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
com 129 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments continued In addition, there is a final judgmental category which includes, where US$626 million.
This amount is attributable as follows: US$272 million applicable, other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate if profit to the Copper & Diamonds product group and US$37 million profit ofasimilartype,  to other product groups 2015: US$307 million profit to the Copper & provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
Diamonds product group and US$83 million profit to other product groups: 2014: US$551 million profit attributable to the Copper & Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and equity Diamonds product group and US$75 million profit to other product accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of groups.
These amounts are included in underlying earnings of the discount on provisions.
relevant product groups and include the underlying earnings of the Rio Tintos share of the underlying profits of equity accounted units Groups tolling entities which process alumina.
Tolling entities recharge amounted to US$309 million in 2016 2015: US$390 million: 2014: the majority of their costs and generally have minimal earnings.
a Reconciliation of net earnings losses to underlying earnings Noncontrolling Net Net Net k Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 2014 Exclusions from underlying earnings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Impairment charges net of reversals note 6 249 66 183 1,802 138 b Net gains losses on disposal of interests in businesses 515 133 382 48 349 Exchange and derivative gains losses : Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup c balances 603 88 1 516 3,282 1,858 Losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not d qualifying for hedge accounting 22 6 4 12 88 22 Gains on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge e accounting 41 9 32 88 30 f Onerous port and rail contracts 469 140 329 g Restructuring costs and global headcount reductions 265 71 17 177 258 82 Increased closure provision for non-operating and legacy h operations 402 120 282 233 i Tax provision 380 380 Recognition of deferred tax assets relating to planned divestments 234 Write off of deferred tax asset following the MRRT repeal 362 Gain on disposal of the Groups St Jamess Square properties 356 j Other exclusions 102 52 50 113 353 Total excluded from underlying earnings 350 155 22 483 5,406 2,778 Net earnings loss 6,343 1,567 159 4,617 866 6,527 Underlying earnings 6,693 1,412 181 5,100 4,540 9,305 b Net gains on disposal of interests in businesses in 2016 related mainly to the sale of Rio Tintos 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla Joint Venture on 1 March 2016 and the sale of the Lochaber assets in Scotland on 23 November 2016.
This was partially offset by a loss on disposal of the 100 per cent interest in Carbone Savoie on 31 March 2016.
In 2015, the balance related mainly to the reduction in shareholding of SouthGobi Resources Ltd, the sale of the Groups interest in Murowa Diamonds and Sengwa Colliery on 17 June 2015 and the Aluminium product group divestments of ECL on 9 July 2015 and Alesa on 24 November 2015. c Net exchange gains in 2016 comprise post-tax foreign exchange gains of US$123 million principally on external US dollar denominated net debt in non-US dollar functional currency companies on borrowings of approximately US$17.6 billion, and US$393 million gains on intragroup balances mainly as the Canadian dollar strengthened against the US dollar.
The Group took further steps during 2016 to reduce the income statement exposure on retranslation of intragroup balances.
Net exchange losses in 2015 comprise post-tax foreign exchange losses of US$1,197 million on external US dollar denominated net debt in non-US dollar functional currency companies on borrowings of approximately US$23.1 billion, and US$2,085 million losses on intragroup balances, as the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and the Euro all weakened against the US dollar.
d Valuation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives, which are ineligible for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in commercial contracts, and the currency revaluation of embedded US dollar derivatives contained in contracts held by entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
e Valuation changes on commodity derivatives, including those embedded in commercial contracts, that are ineligible for hedge accounting, but for which there will be an offsetting change in future Group earnings.
f A review of the infrastructure capacity requirements in Queensland, Australia, has confirmed that it is no longer likely that Rio Tinto will utilise the Abbot Point Coal Terminal and associated rail infrastructure capacity contracted under take or pay arrangements.
On 31 October 2016, agreement was reached with Adani, the owner of the port, to relinquish that capacity.
Accordingly, an onerous contract provision has been recognised based on the net present value of expected future cash flows for the port and rail capacity discounted at a post-tax real rate of 2 per cent, resulting in a post-tax onerous contract charge of US$329 million.
During the second half of the year, as a result of the agreement to relinquish port capacity, there was a decrease of US$240 million before tax in the estimated onerous contract provision.
g The Group has specific criteria in place to determine whether restructuring costs should be excluded from underlying earnings.
Only restructuring costs which are material to a business unit are excluded.
h The increase in closure provision non-operating sites relates to the Gove alumina refinery in Northern Territory, Australia where operations have been curtailed since May 2014.
The provision has been updated based on the current cost estimates from the studies which are expected to be finalised mid-2017.
Future revisions to the closure cost estimate during the study periods including the next stage of feasibility study are expected to be excluded from underlying earnings as the site operating assets have been fully impaired.
i Tax provision includes amounts provided for specific tax matters for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
In particular, the Group is currently in discussions with the Australian Taxation Office ATO in relation to the transfer pricing of certain transactions between Rio Tinto entities based in Australia and the Groups commercial centre in Singapore for the period since 2009.
These matters were raised by Rio Tinto with the ATO through advance ruling requests or are under discussions pursuant to our co-operative compliance agreement.
j Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate, if of similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
In 2016, other exclusions included costs related to multiple transformation projects and recuperation of capital losses against capital gains on divestment.
In 2015, other exclusions included a provision relating to the incomplete divestment of Carbone Savoie within the Rio Tinto Aluminium product group, divestment costs and an increase in provision relating to the Gove refinery.
In 2014, other exclusions included US$116 million after non-controlling interests and tax IFRS 2 Share-based Payment charge.
This reflected the discount to an estimated fair value at which shares were transferred to the Government of Guinea under the Simandou project Investment Framework ratified on 26 May 2014. k Exclusions from underlying earnings relating to equity accounted units are stated after tax and are included in the column Pre-tax.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 3 Operating segments additional information b b b b Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 a Consolidated sales revenue by destination % % % US$m US$m US$m China 42.6 41.8 38.3 14,405 14,566 18,257 Asia excluding China and Japan 14.8 13.7 13.2 5,011 4,762 6,313 United States of America 14.4 15.5 14.8 4,862 5,400 7,032 Japan 10.9 11.2 15.6 3,681 3,907 7,449 Europe excluding UK 7.8 8.5 9.0 2,621 2,970 4,308 Canada 3.3 3.4 2.9 1,099 1,167 1,397 Australia 2.1 2.5 2.1 715 866 978 UK 1.0 1.0 1.0 352 339 475 Other countries 3.1 2.4 3.1 1,035 852 1,455 Consolidated sales revenue 100.0 100.0 100.0 33,781 34,829 47,664 a Consolidated sales revenue by geographical destination is based on the ultimate country of destination of the product, if known.
If the eventual destination of the product sold through traders is not known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the UK and Australia.
b The 2015 and 2014 comparatives above have been amended to correct the allocation of revenues by region.
The impact is to decrease the amount allocated to Canada by US$321 million and US$318 million for 2015 and 2014 respectively and to increase other regions in aggregate by the same amount.
Consolidated sales revenue by product Consolidated sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: a a 2016 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m Iron ore 15,855 15,239 23,178 Aluminium 9,342 9,904 11,667 Copper 1,609 1,577 2,590 Coal 2,567 2,703 3,590 Industrial minerals 1,954 2,155 3,238 Gold 608 1,063 976 Diamonds 613 698 901 Other 1,233 1,490 1,524 Consolidated sales revenue 33,781 34,829 47,664 a 2015 and 2014 comparative figures have been adjusted to conform with the 2016 presentation of consolidated sales revenue, where previously gross sales revenue was presented.
Non-current assets other than excluded items The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below.
This is allocated based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
a 2016 2015 a Non-current assets other than excluded items US$m US$m Australia 30,602 32,615 Canada 14,362 14,396 Mongolia 7,743 7,712 United States of America 4,958 5,372 Africa 3,882 3,682 South America 3,785 3,639 Indonesia 1,482 1,385 Europe excluding France and the UK 429 451 UK 66 274 France 251 267 Other countries 891 895 68,451 70,688 Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: Deferred tax assets 3,728 3,309 Other financial assets including loans to equity accounted units 822 788 b Quasi equity loans to equity accounted units 163 183 Tax recoverable 38 78 Accounts receivable 975 964 Total non-current assets per balance sheet 74,177 76,010 a Allocation of non-current assets by country is based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
It includes investments in equity accounted units totalling US$4,856 million 2015: US$4,758 million which represents the Groups share of net assets excluding quasi equity loans shown separately within Loans to equity accounted units above.
b Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi equity loans of US$163 million 2015: US$183 million included in Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the balance sheet and non-current non-quasi equity loans of US$39 million 2015: US$nil shown within Other financial assets.
com 131 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 4 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately a Adjusted 2016 2015 2014 Note US$m US$m US$m a Raw materials, consumables, repairs and maintenance 8,456 8,823 11,044 Amortisation of intangible assets 13 227 207 237 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 4,567 4,438 4,623 Employment costs 5 4,881 5,446 6,659 Shipping and other freight costs 1,454 2,165 3,370 Decrease in finished goods and work in progress 391 701 1,284 Royalties 1,889 1,863 2,516 a b Amounts charged by equity accounted units 1,184 1,246 1,554 Net foreign exchange gains losses 38 263 34 Other external costs 3,472 4,181 3,074 Provisions including exchange differences on provisions 26 1,404 731 1,138 Research and development 60 104 112 Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation 521 661 738 Other operating income 703 1,062 929 c Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 26,799 27,919 33,910 a The 2015 comparative has been amended to correctly present the purchases from non-tolling equity accounted units as Amounts charged by equity accounted units.
The impact is to decrease the amount allocated to Raw materials, consumables, repairs and maintenance by US$787 million and to increase Amounts charged by equity accounted units by the same amount.
b Amounts charged by equity accounted units relate to toll processing and also include purchases from equity accounted units of bauxite and aluminium which are then processed by the product group or sold to third parties.
Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Groups share of the equity accounted unit but in 2016, US$383 million 2015: US$378 million: 2014: US$463 million related to purchases of the other investors share of production.
c Net operating costs includes operating lease expense of US$573 million 2015: US$644 million.
Costs for leases of dry bulk vessels which include costs for crewing services are included within Shipping and other freight costs and other lease costs are included within Other external costs.
5 Employment costs 2016 2015 2014 Note US$m US$m US$m Total employment costs Wages and salaries 4,235 4,670 5,878 Social security costs 429 430 467 Net post-retirement charge 45 522 439 590 Share option charge 44 116 128 152 5,302 5,667 7,087 Less: charged within provisions 421 221 428 Employment costs 4 4,881 5,446 6,659 132 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 6 Impairment charges and reversals Noncontrolling Net Pre-tax Pre-tax Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 2014 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Copper & Diamonds Argyle 241 64 177 Copper & Diamonds Molybdenum Autoclave Process 17 559 Energy & Minerals Simandou 2,039 Energy & Minerals Energy Resources of Australia 260 Energy & Minerals Roughrider 229 Aluminium Other 179 46 Aluminium Kitimat 1,092 Aluminium Pacific Aluminium smelters 1,224 Other 8 2 6 67 Total impairment charge net of reversals 249 66 183 2,791 473 Allocated as: Goodwill 12 116 Intangible assets 13 1 1,833 Property, plant and equipment 14 248 652 1,034 Investment in equity accounted units 589 Other assets and liabilities 190 28 Total impairment charge net of reversals 249 2,791 473 Comprising: Impairment charges net of reversals of consolidated balances 249 2,791 1,062 Impairment reversals of investments in equity accounted units pre-tax 841 Total impairment charge net of reversals in the financial information by business unit page 200 249 2,791 221 Taxation including related to EAUs 66 57 83 Non-controlling interests 1,046 Total impairment in the income statement 183 1,802 138 Copper & Diamonds Molybdenum Autoclave Process, US In 2015, previously estimated net disposal proceeds for the Molybdenum Argyle Diamond Mine, Australia Autoclave Process project were reduced resulting in a pre-tax An impairment trigger assessment at the Argyle cash-generating unit impairment of US$17 million recorded against property, plant and resulted in the identification of impairment indicators as a result of lower equipment.
In 2014, following a review of the investment case and production volumes compared with forecast and lower prices achieved subsequent decision to terminate the project, a pre-tax impairment for bulk diamonds.
The recoverable amount for Argyle has been charge of US$559 million was recorded against property, plant and determined to be US$191 million assessed by reference to a value in use equipment.
VIU model in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i.
The reduction in the recoverable amount resulted in a pre-tax impairment Energy & Minerals charge of US$240 million to property, plant and equipment and Simandou, Guinea US$1 million to intangible assets.
In arriving at VIU, post-tax cash flows In 2015, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$1,655 million to exploration expressed in real terms have been estimated and discounted using a and evaluation intangible assets and a pre-tax impairment charge of post-tax discount rate of 7.0 per cent, giving consideration to the specific US$194 million to property, plant and equipment were recognised to amount and timing of future tax cash flows.
fully write-down the long-term assets of the Simandou project.
In Oyu Tolgoi, Mongolia addition a pre-tax charge of US$7 million was recognised in relation to The restart of the Oyu Tolgoi Underground Mine Development was inventories and a pre-tax charge of US$183 million was also recognised approved in May 2016 by all shareholders of the project.
Subsequently, as a financial liability for contractual arrangements.
all necessary permits were granted, the project finance was drawn down Energy Resources of Australia ERA, Australia and the main contractor for engineering, procurement and construction In 2015, a pre-tax write down to property, plant and equipment and management was appointed.
Underground work is underway and intangible assets of US$260 million to fully write off these long-term progressing as planned.
Deferred tax assets of US$123 million were also As part of the annual impairment review at 30 September 2016, the fully written off.
project was reviewed for indicators that would require reassessment of Roughrider, Canada its carrying value.
The review concluded that there were no indicators of In 2015, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$116 million to fully write off impairment or impairment reversal.
Management continues to optimise goodwill and a pre-tax impairment charge of US$113 million to production planning and sequencing of development and to implement exploration and evaluation intangible assets were recognised.
The cost reductions that are intended to improve the overall value of the recoverable amount for Roughrider has been determined by reference to project and the headroom from further impairment.
The scale and a fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD model in line with the complexity of the underground development means that reversal of accounting policy set out in note 1 i. .
com 133 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 6 Impairment charges and reversals continued Aluminium US$1,092 million to the property, plant and equipment of the cashgenerating unit.
The recoverable amount was determined by reference to Other a FVLCD model, in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i.
In 2015, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$147 million was recorded in relation to the Carbone Savoie cash-generating unit and US$32 million Pacific Aluminium, Australia and New Zealand was recorded in relation to other aluminium businesses which were Impairment reversal was recorded in 2014 in relation to the Tomago, Bell subsequently disposed of in the second half of 2015.
Bay and Boyne smelters, and the Gladstone Power Station, within the Pacific Aluminium cash-generating unit as evidence emerged that In 2014, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$46 million was recorded in previously recognised impairment losses from 2011 and 2012 had relation to other aluminium businesses.
Kitimat, Canada In 2014, revisions to forecast capital required to complete the modernisation project resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of 7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 2016 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m a Sales revenue: Rio Tinto share 1,727 2,149 2,852 Operating costs 1,237 1,609 1,804 Profit before finance items and taxation 490 540 1,048 Finance items 33 37 49 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 20 35 30 Profit before taxation 477 538 1,029 Taxation 156 177 404 Profit for the year Rio Tinto share 321 361 625 a Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes sales by equity accounted units to Group subsidiaries.
Further information relating to the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates is given in notes 35 and 36.
8 Finance income and finance costs 2016 2015 2014 Note US$m US$m US$m Finance income from equity accounted units Rio Tinto share 6 810 Other finance income including bank deposits and other financial assets 83 44 54 Total finance income 89 52 64 a Interest payable and similar charges 898 1,004 1,119 b Loss on early redemption of bonds 324 Amounts capitalised 14 111 254 470 Total finance costs 1,111 750 649 a Interest payable and similar charges relate to interest on bank loans and other borrowings.
This includes a fair value loss on interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of US$89 million 2015: US$11 million loss: 2014: US$199 million gain and a fair value gain on bonds and notes attributable to interest rate risk of US$89 million 2015: US$17 million loss: 2014: US$200 million loss.
b Loss on early redemption of bonds includes a premium charge of US$441 million: unamortised debt issuance costs and fees of US$42 million partially offset by the write off of the fair value hedge adjustment of US$159 million refer to note 30.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 9 Taxation 2016 2015 2014 Note US$m US$m US$m Taxation charge Current 2,115 1,132 3,402 Deferred 17 548 139 349 1,567 993 3,053 2016 2015 2014 Prima facie tax reconciliation US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before taxation 6,343 726 9,552 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 321 361 625 a Deduct: impairment reversal after tax of investments in equity accounted units 589 Parent companies and subsidiaries profit loss before tax 6,022 1,087 8,338 Prima facie tax payable receivable at UK rate of 20 per cent 2015: 20 per cent: 2014: 21 per cent 1,204 217 1,751 Higher rate of taxation on Australian underlying earnings 604 506 1,038 b Impact of items excluded in arriving at underlying earnings : Impairment charges net of reversals 16 615 112 Gains and losses on disposal of businesses 30 11 85 Foreign exchange on excluded finance items 33 481 231 Onerous port and rail contracts 46 Closure provision for legacy operations 40 c Tax provision 380 Recognition of deferred tax assets relating to planned divestments 250 d Impact of tax law changes on recognition of deferred tax assets 401 Other exclusions 48 17 35 Impact of changes in tax rates and laws 9 3 11 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia on underlying earnings 283 68 5 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 15 15 121 Research, development and other investment allowances 15 21 34 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 154 40 106 Unrecognised current year operating losses 25 45 73 Other items 17 12 58 e Total taxation charge 1,567 993 3,053 a For the year ended 31 December 2014, the impairment reversal in investments in equity accounted units is net of a tax charge of US$252 million.
b The impact for each item includes the effect of tax rates applicable outside the UK.
c The tax provision includes amounts provided for tax matters for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
Specifically, the Group has recognised a charge of US$380m in the year to 31 December 2016 for matters currently under discussion with the Australian Taxation Office ATO in relation to the pricing of certain transactions between Rio Tinto entities based in Australia and the Groups commercial centre in Singapore for the period since 2009.
The pricing adopted by the Group in determining the amounts paid to the Singapore commercial centre is based on supporting analysis and applies established principles.
All transactions with the Singapore commercial centre are undertaken on an arms length basis and priced in accordance with OECD guidelines and local tax requirements and where applicable, the Group has used previous settlements reached with the ATO for prior periods as the basis to determine the commission rates.
While the Group is satisfied that these transactions align with tax requirements, differences of interpretation with tax authorities can occur.
This includes whether an arms length transfer price should be based on revised commission rates or some other basis, for example based on the direct costs of the relevant function.
The ATO is reviewing the transactions and its position in relation to arms length transfer pricing.
In the light of ongoing discussions with the ATO about the transfer prices charged between Singapore and Australia, management has reassessed the tax provision in accordance with its accounting policy as described in note 1 m. The Group has not received amended tax assessments from the ATO in respect of these matters, but it is possible that assessments may be issued in the nearfuture.
 amount of any payment to the ATO may vary from the amount currently provided.
The Group does however consider that any difference between the maximum amount of the possible economic outflow in the next financial year and the amount of the tax provision is not material.
d For the year ended 31 December 2014, the remaining Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT starting base deferred tax asset was derecognised on repeal of the tax in Australia.
e This tax reconciliation relates to the Groups parent companies, subsidiaries and joint operations.
The Groups share of profit of equity accounted units is net of tax charges of US$156 million 31 December 2015: US$177 million: 31 December 2014: US$404 million.
com 135 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 9 Taxation continued 2016 2015 2014 Total Total Total US$m US$m US$m Tax on exchange adjustments 3 Tax on fair value movements: Cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 3 2  4 Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities 1 Losses gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 1 Tax credit charge on actuarial losses gains on post-retirement benefit plans 29 175 215 Other 8 a Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income loss for the year 33 178 206 a This comprises deferred tax credit of US$33 million 2015: charge of US$174 million: 2014: credit of US$205 million and current tax charge of US$nil 2015: charge of US$4 million: 2014: credit of US$1 million, plus share of tax on other comprehensive income of equity accounted units shown separately see note 17.
10 Earnings loss per ordinary share 2016 2015 Weighted Weighted average 2016 average 2015 2016 number of Per share 2015 number of Per share Earnings shares amount Loss shares amount US$m millions cents US$m millions cents Basic earnings loss per share attributable to ordinary a shareholders of Rio Tinto 4,617 1,797.3 256.9 866 1,824.7 47.5 Diluted earnings loss per share attributable to ordinary b shareholders of Rio Tinto 4,617 1,808.6 255.3 866 1,824.7 47.5 2014 Weighted average 2014 2014 number of Per share Earnings shares amount US$m millions cents Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders a of Rio Tinto 6,527 1,848.4 353.1  b shareholders of Rio Tinto 6,527 1,858.7 351.2 a The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,373.7 million 2015: 1,398.1 million: 2014: 1,413.0 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding of 423.6 million 2015: 426.6 million: 2014: 435.4 million over the relevant period.
No Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares were held by Rio Tinto plc in any of the periods presented.
b For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 11.3 million shares in 2016 and 10.3 million shares in 2014 is added to the weighted average number of shares described in a above.
This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method.
In accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share, for the purposes of calculating diluted loss per share, the effect of potentially dilutive securities has not been taken into account for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Groups only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which terms and conditions are described in note 44.
11 Dividends 2016 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 1,443 1,642 1,533 Rio Tinto plc interim dividend paid 604 1,476 1,299 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final dividend paid 473 520 473 Rio Tinto Limited interim dividend paid 205 438 405 Dividends paid during the year 2,725 4,076 3,710 Dividends per share: paid during the year 152.5c 226.5c 204.5c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 125.0c 107.5c 119.0c Dividends per Dividends Dividends share per share per share 2016 2015 2014 Rio Tinto plc previous year final pence 74.21p 77.98p 65.82p Rio Tinto plc interim pence 33.80p 68.92p 56.90p Rio Tinto Limited previous year final fully franked at 30% Australian cents 151.89c 152.98c 120.14c Rio Tinto Limited interim fully franked at 30% Australian cents 59.13c 144.91c 103.09c 136 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION Number of Number Number shares of shares of shares 2016 2015 2014 millions millions millions Rio Tinto plc previous year final 1,373.9 1,412.7 1,413.2 Rio Tinto plc interim 1,374.4 1,395.2 1,413.8 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final 423.5 435.0 435.6 Rio Tinto Limited interim 424.0 423.7 435.7  dividends.
Employee share trusts waived dividends on Rio Tinto Limited amounts: 2015 final 107.5 cents, 2016 interim 45.0 cents 2015 shares of 681,818 for the 2015 final dividend and on 152,834 shares for dividends paid: 2014 final 119.0 cents, 2015 interim 107.5 cents: the 2016 interim dividend 2015: 727,676 for the 2014 final dividend and 2014 dividends paid: 2013 final 108.5 cents, 2014 interim on 474,665 for the 2015 interim dividend: 2014: 183,981 shares for the 96.0 cents.
2013 final dividend and 24,046 for the 2014 interim dividend.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of excludes those held as treasury shares and those held by employee 125.0 cents per share on 8 February 2017.
This is expected to result in share trusts which waived the right to dividends.
Employee share trusts payments of US$2,249 million Rio Tinto plc: US$1,719 million, Rio Tinto waived dividends on 428,529 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 13,881 Limited US$530 million.
The dividends will be paid on 6 April 2017 to American Depository Receipts ADRs for the 2015 final dividend and on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders on the register at the 217,661 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 31,604 ADRs for the 2016 close of business on 24 February 2017. interim dividend 2015: 342,902 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 24,582  ADRs for the 2014 final dividend and on 237,266 Rio Tinto plc ordinary franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of shares and 27,050 ADRs for the 2015 interim dividend: 2014: 207,766 income tax during 2017.
 and on 90,304 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 1,912 ADRs for the 2014 The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax interim dividend.
In 2016, 2015 and 2014, no Rio Tinto Limited shares groups retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as were held by Rio Tinto plc.
dividends and franked out of available credits that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2016 The number of shares on which Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the 2016 final excludes those held by shareholders who have waived the rights to dividend declared is US$11,577 million.
12 Goodwill 2016 2015 US$m US$m Netbookvalue At 1 January 892 1,228 Adjustment on currency translation 59 220 a Impairment charges 116 At 31 December 951 892 cost 17,144 17,120 accumulated impairment 16,193 16,228 At 1 January cost 17,120 20,122 accumulated impairment 16,228 18,894 At 31 December, goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2016 2015 US$m US$m Netbookvalue Richards Bay Minerals 502 439 Pilbara 360 363 Dampier Salt 89 90 951 892 a The 2015 impairment charge of US$116 million represents the full impairment of goodwill arising from the Hathor Exploration Limited acquisition, which includes the Roughrider project.
Refer to note 6 for further details.
com 137 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 12 Goodwill continued Impairment tests for goodwill Other assumptions include the long-term pig iron and zircon prices and operating costs.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been Richards Bay Minerals estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable Richards Bay Minerals annual impairment review resulted in no amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying value for each impairment charge for 2016 2015: no impairment charge.
The of these sensitivities applied in isolation.
recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to FVLCD, in line with the policy set out in note 1 i and classified as level 3 under the fair Pilbara value hierarchy.
FVLCD was determined by estimating cash flows until The recoverability of goodwill arising at Robe River is monitored at the the end of the life-of-mine plan including anticipated expansions.
In Pilbara cash-generating unit level and has been assessed by reference to arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 9.0 per cent 2015: 9.3 per FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in out in note 1 i and is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 7.0 per cent 2015: 7.3 per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Richards Bay real terms.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be significantly Minerals is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in FVLCD are in excess of carrying value, and there are not considered to be any set out below: reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the US$ million remaining goodwill to be impaired.
5% decrease in the titanium slag price 198 1% increase in the discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 326 10% strengthening of the South African rand 658 13 Intangible assets Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non-patented intangible intangible a b evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Netbookvalue At 1 January 2016 706 94 2,138 398 3,336 Adjustment on currency translation 14 3 47 58 Expenditure during the year 8 23 31 c Amortisation for the year 13 87 127 227 d Impairment charges 1 1 e Disposals, transfers and other movements 17 5 94 82 At 31 December 2016 711 78 2,103 387 3,279 cost 2,588 199 3,897 1,329 8,013 accumulated amortisation and impairment 1,877 121 1,794 942 4,734 Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non patented intangible intangible a b evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Netbookvalue At 1 January 2015 2,596 156 2,454 674 5,880 Adjustment on currency translation 134 15 393 58 600 Expenditure during the year 152 64 216 c Amortisation for the year 15 90 102 207 d Impairment charges 1,773 28 30 2 1,833 e Disposals, transfers and other movements 135 4 197 178 120 At 31 December 2015 706 94 2,138 398 3,336 cost 2,585 208 3,829 1,252 7,874 accumulated amortisation and impairment 1,879 114 1,691 854 4,538 a Exploration and evaluation assets useful lives are not determined until transferred to property, plant and equipment.
This balance includes the Roughrider project in Canada which had an exploration and evaluation asset at 31 December 2016 of US$353 million 31 December 2015: US$343 million.
The impairment charge in the year ended 31 December 2015 of US$1,773 million primarily relates to exploration and evaluation assets within the Simandou and Roughrider projects in the Energy & Minerals product group see note 6. b The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan, including power supply contracts and water rights.
The water rights are expected to contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
These water rights constitute the majority of the amounts in Contract based intangible assets.
The remaining carrying value of the water rights US$1,702 million as at 31 December 2016 relates wholly to the Quebec smelters cash-generating unit.
The Quebec smelters cash-generating unit was tested for impairment by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amount of the Quebec smelters is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been estimated over the expected useful economic lives of the underlying smelting assets and discounted using a real post-tax discount rate of 7.0 per cent 2015: 7.3 per cent.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be significantly in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining water rights to be impaired.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION c Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight-line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Where amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis, the following useful lives have been determined: Trademarks, patented and non-patented technology Trademarks: 14 to 20 years Patented and non-patented technology: ten to 20 years Contract based intangible assets Power contracts water rights: two to 45 years Other purchase and customer contracts: five to 15 years Other intangible assets Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: two to five years Other intangible assets: two to 20 years d Impairment charges in 2016 relate to the full write off of the intangible assets of the Argyle cash-generating unit see note 6.
Impairment charges in 2015, excluding charges against exploration and evaluation, primarily related to the full write off of the intangible assets of the Carbone Savoie cash-generating unit.
e Disposals, transfers and other movements for exploration and evaluation in 2016 includes the disposal of the Mount Pleasant thermal coal , Australia.
Thesaleto MACH Energy Australia Pty Ltd completed on 5 August 2016.
Disposals, transfers and other movements for exploration and evaluation in 2015 included US$164 million transferred to Mining property in relation to the Amrun project in Australia.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2016 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m Net expenditure in the year net of proceeds of US$208 million 2015: US$nil: 2014: US$11 million on disposal of undeveloped projects 284 705 872 Non-cash movements and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 177 15 53 Amount capitalised during the year 8 152 142 Netchargefortheyear 453 568 783 Reconciliation to income statement Exploration and evaluation costs 497 576 747 Profit loss relating to interests in undeveloped projects 44 8 36 Netchargefortheyear 453 568 783 At 31 December 2016, a total of US$726 million had been capitalised related to projects which had not yet been approved to proceed.
This comprised evaluation costs of US$711 million included above and US$15 million of early works expenditure within property, plant and equipment 31 December 2015: a total of US$766 million had been capitalised comprising: evaluation costs of US$706 million included above and US$60 million of early works expenditure within property, plant and equipment.
14 Property, plant and equipment Mining Land Plant Capital properties and and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2016 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Netbookvalue At 1 January 2016 11,146 7,571 37,900 4,440 61,057 Adjustment on currency translation 137 62 138 16 353 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs 26 123 123 c Interest capitalised 8 111 111 Additions 237 47 537 2,307 3,128 a d Depreciation for the year 760 429 3,378 4,567 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 130 112 6 248 Disposals 3 169 86 258 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 40 88 217 14 359 f Transfers and other movements 384 322 924 1,869 239 At 31 December 2016 10,848 7,316 35,706 4,985 58,855 cost 22,989 11,444 68,030 5,374 107,837 accumulated depreciation and impairment 12,141 4,128 32,324 389 48,982 g Non-current assets held under finance leases 38 38 h Non-current assets pledged as security 3,310 423 5,332 2,104 11,169 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 139 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Mining Capital properties Land and Plant and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Netbookvalue At 1 January 2015 11,913 7,085 39,810 9,885 68,693 Adjustment on currency translation 1,049 890 4,268 754 6,961 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 26 147 147 c Interest capitalised note8 254 254 Additions 400 374 715 2,767 4,256 a d Depreciation for the year 725 419 3,294 4,438 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 69 51 308 224 652 Disposals 4 15 77 96 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 7 17 24 f Transfers and other movements 533 1,494 5,339 7,488 122 At 31 December 2015 11,146 7,571 37,900 4,440 61,057 cost 22,474 11,405 67,690 5,000 106,569 accumulated depreciation and impairment 11,328 3,834 29,790 560 45,512 g Non-current assets held under finance leases 37 6 43 h Non-current assets pledged as security 911 294 6,293 2,402 9,900 a At 31 December 2016, the net book value of capitalised production phase stripping costs totalled US$1,967 million, with US$1,511 million within Property, plant and equipment and a further US$456 million within Investments in equity accounted units 2015 total of US$1,923 million with US$1,464 million in Property, plant and equipment and a further US$459 million within Investments in equity accounted units.
During the year capitalisation of US$319 million was partly offset by depreciation of US$298 million.
Depreciation of deferred stripping costs of US$203 million 2015: US$173 million: 2014: US$84 million is included within Depreciation for the year.
b At 31 December 2016, the net book value amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$7,276 million 2015: US$7,435 million and long leasehold US$40 million 2015: US$136 million.
c Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Group or relevant subsidiarys cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
The Groups average borrowing rate used for capitalisation of interest is 4.2 per cent 2015: 3.7 per cent.
d Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight-line basis as follows: Land and buildings Land: not depreciated Buildings: five to 50 years Plant and equipment Other plant and equipment: three to 50 years Power assets: 25 to 50 years Capital work in progress: not depreciated e During 2016 impairment charges primarily related to the Copper & Diamonds businesses see note 6.
During 2015 impairment charges primarily related to the Energy & Minerals and Aluminium businesses.
f Transfers and other movements includes reclassifications and adjustments between categories, including the transfer to assets of disposal groups held for sale.
g The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23. h Excludes assets held under finance leases.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$4,783 million 2015: US$701 million of loans, which are included in note 22.
15 Investments in equity accounted units 2016 2015 Summary balance sheet Rio Tinto share US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Non-current assets 6,686 6,780 Current assets 832 429 7,518 7,209 Rio Tintos share of liabilities Current liabilities 612 941 Non-current liabilities 1,887 1,327 2,499 2,268 Rio Tintos share of net assets 5,019 4,941 Further details of investments in equity accounted units are set out in notes 35 and 36.
At 31 December 2016 and 2015 the Group had no investments in equity accounted units with shares listed on recognised stock exchanges.
At 31 December 2016, net debt of equity accounted units, excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto, was US$1,338 million 2015: US$1,224 million.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 16 Inventories 2016 2015 US$m US$m Raw materials and purchased components 470 528 Consumable stores 840 1,030 Work in progress 970 1,142 Finished goods and goods for resale 800 721 3,080 3,421 Comprising: Expected to be used within one year 2,937 3,168 Expected to be used after more than one year 143 253 3,080 3,421 Inventory write-downs, net of reversals, amounting to US$51 million 2015: US$192 million: 2014: US$94 million were recognised during the year.
At 31 December 2016, US$564 million 2015: US$587 million of inventories were pledged as security for liabilities.
17 Deferred taxation 2016 2015 US$m US$m At 1 January 23 34 Adjustment on currency translation 58 149 Credited to the income statement 548 139 a Credited charged to statement of comprehensive income 33 174 Disposals 8 1 b Other movements 53 58 At 31 December 607 23 Comprising: c d deferred tax liabilities 3,121 3,286 c e f deferred tax assets 3,728 3,309 Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same tax jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the balance sheet as permitted by IAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
Total Total 2016 2015 US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Capital allowances 4,937 5,311 d Unremitted earnings 659 664 Capitalised interest 403 432 Unrealised exchange gains 40 68 Other temporary differences 301 451 6,340 6,926 Deferred tax assets arising from: e Tax losses 2,246 2,170 Provisions 2,040 1,745 Capital allowances 883 794 Post-retirement benefits 888 829 Unrealised exchange losses 342 522 Other temporary differences 548 889 6,947 6,949 Charged credited to the income statement Unrealised exchange losses 156 108 Tax losses 122 335 Provisions 279 40 Capital allowances 441 251 Tax on unremitted earnings 6 16 Post-retirement benefits 6 47 Other temporary differences 150 18 548 139 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 141 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 17 Deferred taxation continued a The amounts credited directly to the Statement of comprehensive income include provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes and on post-retirement healthcare plans.
b Other movements include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates and amounts credited directly to the statement of changes in equity relating to the restructure of Coal & Allied Industries Limited.
c The deferred tax liability of US$3,121 million 2015: US$3,286 million includes US$3,109 million 2015: US$3,275 million due in more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of US$3,728 million 2015: US$3,309 million includes US$3,721 million 2015: US$3,091 million receivable in more than one year.
All amounts are shown as non-current on the face of the balance sheet as required by IAS 12. d Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures totalling US$2,523 million 2015: US$2,763 million where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$125 million 2015: US$136 million would be payable.
e There is a limited time period, the shortest of which is four years, for the recovery of US$1,309 million 2015: US$1,482 million of tax losses and other tax assets which have been recognised as deferred tax assets in the financial statements.
f Recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets are shown in the table below and totalled US$7,170 million at 31 December 2016 2015: US$6,966 million.
Of this total, US$3,728 million has been recognised as deferred tax assets 2015: US$3,309 million, leaving US$3,442 million 2015: US$3,657 million unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
The recognised amounts do not include deferred tax assets that have been netted off against deferred tax liabilities.
The amount recognised takes account of legislation which restricts the recovery of losses.
b US$964 million 2015: US$784 million of the unrecognised assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, the recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in future years.
There is a time limit, the shortest of which is one year, for the recovery of US$105 million of the unrecognised assets 2015: US$433 million.
18 Trade and other receivables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Trade receivables 2,283 2,283 5 1,365 1,370 Other receivables 347 880 1,227 370 752 1,122 b Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities 267 267 288 288 Pension surpluses note 45 625 625 592 592 Amounts due from equity accounted units 3131 2727 Other prepayments 103 266 369 101 242 343 1,342 3,460 4,802 1,356 2,386 3,742 a At 31 December 2016, trade and other receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of US$66 million 2015: US$77 million.
Amounts of US$89 million 2015: US$37 million were impaired:.
b Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina.
These prepayments will be charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing.
The fair value of current trade and other receivables and the majority of amounts classified as non-current assets approximates their carrying value.
As of 31 December 2016, trade receivables of US$230 million 2015: US$123 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2016 2015 US$m US$m less than 30 days overdue 196 71 between 30 and 60 days overdue 4 7 between 60 and 90 days overdue 7 23 more than 90 days overdue 23 22 230 123 These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 19 Assets and liabilities held for sale Following the termination of the previous sales agreement for Blair At 31 December 2015, assets and liabilities held for sale primarily related Athol, a binding agreement was signed in September 2016 to divest Rio to the Groups 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla coal Joint venture and Tintos 71.2 per cent interest to Terracom subject to certain conditions its interest in Blair Athol.
At 31 December 2016, assets held for sale also included certain cancelled projects at Rio Tinto Kennecott.
20 Other financial assets including non-quasi equity loans to equity accounted units Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 508 24 532 529 77 606 Equity shares and quoted funds 73 83 156 76 81 157 a Other investments, including loans 202 252 454 183 23 206 Loans to equity accounted units 39 39 4242 822 359 1,181 788 223 1,011 a Current other investments, including loans includes US$250 million 2015: US$nil of highly liquid financial assets held in managed investment funds classified as held for trading.
Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 30.
21 Cash and cash equivalents 2016 2015 Note US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 956 843 Money market funds and other cash equivalents 7,245 8,523 Balance per Group balance sheet 8,201 9,366 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 22 12 12 Balance per Group cash flow statement 8,189 9,354 Cash and cash equivalents of US$358 million 2015: US$426 million are held by partially owned subsidiaries and is not available for use in the held in countries where there are restrictions on remittances.
Of this wider Group due to the legal and contractual restrictions currently in balance US$252 million 2015: US$311 million could be used to repay place.
Of this balance US$766 million 2015: US$53 million could be subsidiaries third-party borrowings.
used to repay subsidiaries third-party borrowings.
There are also restrictions on a further US$1,051 million 2015: US$802 million of cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which is 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 143 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities Non-current Current Total Non-current Current 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 Total 2015 Borrowings at 31 December Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 1.375% 2016 998 998 Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds LIBOR plus 0.84% 2016 500 500 Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 2.0% 2017 500 500 Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 1.625% 2017 1,247 1,247 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% 2018 1,894 1,894 Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 2.250% 2018 1,242 1,242 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 9.0% 2019 1,235 1,235 1,481 1,481 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.5% 2020 464 464 997 997 a b Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.0% due 2020 817 817 848 848 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 4.125% 2021 573 573 989 989 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.750% 2021 621 621 1,142 1,142 a Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 3.5% 2022 459 459 1,004 1,004 a Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 2.875% 2022 509 509 994 994 a b Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.875% due 2024 577 577 584 584 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.75% 2025 1,195 1,195 1,202 1,202 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2028 980 980 1,000 1,000 Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2028 105 105 106 106 a b Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bonds 4.0% due 2029 609 609 738 738 Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2031 425 425 427 427 Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 5.75% due 2035 287 287 286 286 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.2% 2040 1,103 1,103 1,147 1,147 a Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 4.75% 2042 466 466 490 490 a Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 4.125% 2042 690 690 727 727 c Oyu Tolgoi LLC Secured Loan due 2027 2,259 2,259 c Oyu Tolgoi LLC Secured Loan due 2028 247 247 c Oyu Tolgoi LLC Secured Loan due 2029 866 866 c Oyu Tolgoi LLC Secured Loan due 2030 754 754 Loans from equity accounting units 49 49 3737 Other secured loans 530 127 657 597 104 701 Other unsecured loans 377 508 885 382 595 977 Finance leases 23 24 21 45 45 7 52 Bank overdrafts 21 12 12 1212 d Total borrowings including overdrafts 16,913 717 17,630 20,810 2,253 23,063 a These borrowings are subject to the hedging arrangements summarised below.
Fair value hedge accounting has been applied except for the Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bonds 4.0% due 2029 which has cash flow hedge accounting applied.
b Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion 2015: US$10 billion European Debt Issuance Programme against which the cumulative amount utilised was US$1.9 billion equivalent at 31 December 2016 2015: US$2.1 billion.
The carrying value of these bonds after hedge accounting adjustments amounted to US$2.0 billion 2015: US$ 2.2 billion in aggregate.
c These borrowings relate to Oyu Tolgoi LLC project finance facility.
The project finance facility provides for interest-only payments for the first five years followed by minimum repayments according to a stepped amortisation schedule for the remaining life of the facility.
The due dates stated represent the final repayment date.
Further details are provided in note 30. d The Groups borrowings of US$17.6 billion 2015: US$23.1 billion include US$2.8 billion 2015: US$2.9 billion which relate to subsidiary entity borrowings that are without recourse to the Group and US$4.8 billion 2015: US$0.7 billion which is subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2016.
Non-current Current Total Non-current Current 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 Total 2015 Other financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 517 6 523 283 41 324 Other financial liabilities 40 199 239 47 190 237 Total other financial liabilities 557 205 762 330 231 561 Total borrowings including overdrafts as above 16,913 717 17,630 20,810 2,253 23,063 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 17,470 922 18,392 21,140 2,484 23,624 Swap arrangements Hedge accounting has been applied to the full notional of items marked a in the above table except for: US$75 million 2015: US$75 million of At 31 December 2016, US$7.7 billion 2015: US$7.0 billion US dollar the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2028 and US$nil notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to floating million 2015: US$750 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited US dollar rates and US$1.3 billion 2015: US$1.4 billion US dollar Bonds 6.5% due 2018.
These portions are held at amortised cost.
notional equivalent of euro borrowings were fully swapped to floating US dollar rates.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION The Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bond 4.0% due 2029 at US$0.6 billion and US$516 million 2015: US$275 million liability, respectively.
These 2015: US$0.7 billion US dollar notional equivalent of sterling was fully are included within Other financial assets and Other financial swapped to US dollar notional and fixed US dollar rates.
Cash flow liabilities in the balance sheet.
hedging was applied to the annual interest coupons and principal of this Details of the major interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps bond.
The hedge was fully effective in 2016 and 2015 financial years.
The fair value of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps at 31 December 2016 was US$108 million 2015: US$189 million asset 23 Capitalised finance leases 2016 2015 Note US$m US$m Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 45 53 Effect of discounting 1 14 45 52 Payments under capitalised finance leases Due within 1 year 21 7 Between 1 and 3 years 8 28 Between 3 and 5 years 6 5 More than 5 years 10 12 14 45 52 24 Consolidated net debt 2016 2015 Note US$m US$m Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt Opening balance 13,783 12,495 Adjustment on currency translation 103 1,586 a Exchange gains losses charged credit to the income statement 193 1,630 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 3,915 1,109 Other movements 191 135 Closing balance 9,587 13,783 Total borrowings in balance sheet 22 17,630 23,063 Derivatives related to net debt included in Other financial assets liabilities 30 408 86 Adjusted total borrowings 18,038 23,149 Cash and cash equivalents 21 8,201 9,366 b Other investments 20 250 Consolidated net debt 9,587 13,783 2016 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded from underlying earnings Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt 160 1,578 1,056 Exchange gains losses on intragroup balances 449 1,961 940 Exchange gains on loans from equity accounted units 1 Exchange gains on settlement of dividends 2 1 Credited charged to income statement 611 3,538 1,995 a Exchange gains and losses taken to the income statement include amounts excluded from underlying earnings.
b Other investments include US$250 million of highly liquid financial assets held in managed investment funds classified as held for trading.
Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 30.
com 145 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 25 Trade and other payables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 2,787 2,787 9 2,567 2,576 Deferred income 234 197 431 176 175 351 Accruals 1 973 974 3 1,225 1,228 Other payables 309 1,072 1,381 263 1,075 1,338 Employee entitlements 720 720 747 747 Royalties and mining taxes 3 516 519 2345 347 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 151 92 243 131 100 231 Government grants deferred 91 4 95 98 3 101 789 6,361 7,150 682 6,237 6,919 Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.
26 Provisions including post-retirement benefits Pensions Close down and post Other and retirement employee restoration Total Total a b c healthcare entitlements environmental Other 2016 2015 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 3,122 458 8,426 1,060 13,066 14,602 Adjustment on currency translation 3 3 29 27 56 1,344 Adjustments to mining properties 14 changes in estimate 123 123 147 Charged credited to profit: increases to existing and new provisions 260 255 537 578 1,630 898 unused amounts reversed 95 111 33 239 258  10 3 13 91 amortisation of discount 1 296 41 338 378 Utilised in year 370 178 257 192 997 824 Actuarial losses gains recognised in equity 152 152 442 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 38 25 63 19 Transfers to assets held for sale 4 4 57 Transfers and other movements 12 15 50 77 106 At 31 December 3,167 450 8,722 1,455 13,794 13,066 Balance sheet analysis: Current 104 305 439 467 1,315 1,190 Non-current 3,063 145 8,283 988 12,479 11,876 Total 3,167 450 8,722 1,455 13,794 13,066 a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post-retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 45. b The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$317 million 2015: US$322 million, based on the relevant entitlements in certain Group operations and includes US$59 million 2015: US$52 million of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
c The Groups policy on close-down and restoration costs is described in note 1 k and in paragraph v under Critical accounting policies and estimates on pages 123 and 125.
Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter.
Remaining lives of operations and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average for all sites, weighted by present closure obligation, of around 16 years 2015: 17 years.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on current restoration standards and techniques.
Provisions of US$8,722 million 2015: US$8,426 million for close-down and restoration costs and environmental clean-up obligations are based on risk adjusted cash flows.
These estimates have been discounted to their present value at a real risk free rate of 2 per cent per annum, based on an estimate of the long-term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Non-current provisions for close down and restoration environmental expenditure include amounts relating to environmental clean-up of US$366 million 2015: US$286 million expected to take place between one and five years from the balance sheet date, and US$727 million 2015: US$867 million expected to take place later than five years after the balance sheet date.
Close-down and restoration environmental liabilities at 31 December 2016 have not been adjusted for amounts of US$110 million 2015: US$97 million relating to insurance recoveries and other financial assets held for the purposes of meeting these obligations.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 27 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 2016 2015 2014 Number Number Number 2016 2015 2014 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each At 1 January 1,384.487 1,425.378 1,425.377 224 230 230 a c Ordinary shares issued 0.033 0.022 0.001 b Shares purchased and cancelled 40.913 6 At 31 December 1,384.520 1,384.487 1,425.378 224 224 230 Shares held by public At 1 January 1,374.046 1,414.147 1,412.695 a Shares reissued from treasury 0.743 0.790 1.451 b Shares purchased and cancelled 40.913 a c Ordinary shares issued 0.033 0.022 0.001 At 31 December 1,374.822 1,374.046 1,414.147 Shares held in treasury 9.698 10.441 11.231 Shares held by public 1,374.822 1,374.046 1,414.147 Total share capital 1,384.520 1,384.487 1,425.378 Other share classes d Special Voting Share of 10p each 1only 1only 1only d  1only 1only 1only d Equalisation Share of 10p each 1only 1only 1only a 33,210 ordinary shares were issued in 2016 under the Global Employee Share Plan GESP.
743,380 ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the vesting of awards and the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share-based payment plans, with exercise prices and market values between 16.53 and 32.235 per share 2015: 21,709 ordinary shares were issued under the GESP, and 789,887 ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices and market values between 15.086 and 32.375 per share: 2014: 971 ordinary shares were issued under the GESP, and 1,450,659 ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices and market values between 10.979 and 36.275 per share.
b The authority for the Company to buy back its ordinary shares was renewed at the 2016 annual general meeting.
No shares were bought back in 2016.
40,912,881 shares were bought back and cancelled in 2015 under the on-market buy-back programme.
No shares were bought back in 2014. c The aggregate consideration for new shares issued under the GESP was US$0.9 million 2015: US$0.9 million: 2014: US$0.05 million.
The difference between the nominal value and the issue price of the shares issued was credited to the share premium account.
The aggregate consideration received for treasury shares reissued was US$4 million 2015: US$13 million: 2014: US$22 million.
No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share-based payment plans in 2016, 2015 and 2014. d The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC Merger.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
During 2016, US$40.1 million of shares and ADRs 2015: US$34.1 million: 2014: US$49.5 million were purchased by employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
At 31 December 2016, 892,938 shares and 33,417 ADRs were held in the employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc.
Information relating to share options and other share-based incentive schemes is given in note 44.
28 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 2016 2015 2014 Number Number Number 2016 2015 2014 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 424.19 435.76 435.76 3,950 4,535 4,911 Adjustment on currency translation 35 503 376 a Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 11.57 82 At 31 December 424.19 424.19 435.76 3,915 3,950 4,535 b Special Voting Share 1only 1only 1only b DLCDividendShare 1only 1only 1only Total share capital 424.19 424.19 435.76 a In April 2015, 11,566,308 Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares were purchased at A$48.44 per share and cancelled under an off-market share buy-back programme carried out pursuant to the shareholder approval granted at Rio Tinto Limiteds 2015 annual general meeting for off-market and on-market buy-backs of up to 43.5 million Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares.
b The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC Merger.
Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2016 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the on-market purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Groups behalf.
com 147 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 29 Other reserves and retained earnings 2016 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m a Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 34 28 28 Own shares purchased and cancelled 6 At 31 December 34 34 28 Hedging reserves At 1 January 12 3 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value losses 88 41 48 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 116 32 55 Tax on the above 4 3 2 At 31 December 32 12 Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 139 130 117 Gains losses on available for sale securities 13 16 19 Losses on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 76 At 31 December 126 139 130 b Other reserves At 1 January 11,735 11,704 11,766 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 108 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 43 25 129 Employee share options: value of services 58 58 69 Deferred tax on share options 3 2 2 At 31 December 11,861 11,735 11,704 c Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 2,491 492 1,191 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 204 1,940 1,690 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 11 57 43 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 99 2 53 Tax on the above 3 At 31 December 2,585 2,491 492 Total other reserves per balance sheet 9,216 9,139 11,122 2016 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m d Retained earnings At 1 January 19,736 26,110 23,605 Parent and subsidiaries profit loss for the year 4,298 1,218 5,243 Equity accounted units profit after tax for the year 319 352 1,284 e Actuarial losses gains 94 616 720 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 30 173 204 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 4,553 423 6,011 Share buy-back scheme 1,946 Dividends paid 2,725 4,076 3,710 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 40 20 36 Own shares purchased treasury shares reissued for share options and other movements 37 27 28 Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the income statement 64 78 196 At 31 December 21,631 19,736 26,110 a The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 733 of the UK Companies Act 2006 previously section 170 of the UK Companies Act 1985 when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the companys profits.
Balances reflect the amount by which the Companys issued share capital is diminished in accordance with this section.
b Other reserves includes US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009.
No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the UK Companies Act 1985.
Other reserves also include the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised.
The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is recorded in retained earnings.
c Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in note 1 d. The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
d Retained earnings and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Groups share of joint operations.
e There were no actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units in 2016, 2015 or 2014.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 30 Financial instruments and risk management Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial A Financial assets and liabilities by categories instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and joint B Derivative financial instruments operations, and excludes those of equity accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: CFairvalues A a Financial assets and liabilities by categories Held to maturity Available assets other Loans and for sale Held at financial Total receivables securities fair value liabilities At 31 December 2016 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 8,201 8,201 a Trade and other receivables 3,432 3,289 143 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 156 156 b Other investments, including loans 20 454 14 431 9 c Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges 20 1 1 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: c not designated as hedges 20 423 423 c Derivatives related to net debt 20,22,24 108 108 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 202 202 Total financial assets 12,977 11,706 156 1,106 9 Financial liabilities d Trade and other payables 5,386 5 5,381 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 717 717 Medium and long term borrowings 22 16,913 16,913 c Derivatives related to net debt 22,24 516 516 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated c as hedges 22 7 7 Other financial liabilities 22 239 239 Total financial liabilities 23,778 528 23,250 Held to maturity Available assets other Loans and for sale Held at financial Total receivables securities fair value liabilities At 31 December 2015 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 9,366 9,366 a Trade and other receivables 2,468 2,456 12 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 157 157 Other investments, including loans 20 206 32 170 4 c Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges 20 5 5 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: c not designated as hedges 20 412 412 c Derivatives related to net debt 20,22,24 189 189 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 225 225 Total financial assets 13,028 12,079 157 788 4 Financial liabilities d Trade and other payables 5,373 24 5,349 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 2,253 2,253 Medium and long term borrowings 22 20,810 20,810 c Derivatives related to net debt 22,24 275 275 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated c as hedges 22 49 49 Other financial liabilities 22 237 237 Total financial liabilities 28,997 348 28,649 a This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to joint operations and other prepayments and other non-financial instrument items within other receivables and will therefore differ from note 18. b Other investments, including loans includes US$250 million of highly liquid financial assets held in managed investment funds classified as held for trading.
c These financial assets and liabilities in aggregate agree to total derivative financial instruments disclosed in notes 20 and 22. d Trade and other payables excludes deferred income, Government grants, royalties, mining taxes and employee entitlements and will therefore differ from note 25.
com 149 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued A b Financial risk management i Foreign exchange risk Management policy Funding and exposure management The Groups shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced The Group is exposed to a number of financial risks which are considered  within the overall Group Risk management framework described on Groups sales and the countries in which it operates.
, interest however, is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those management risk which are discussed in detail below.
countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are located The Groups policies on financial risk management are clearly defined and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and consistently applied.
The policies look to ensure that the Group has and services are determined.
The Australian and Canadian dollars are the an appropriate capital structure which enables it to manage the risks most important currencies apart from the US dollar influencing costs.
faced by the organisation through the commodities cycle.
The general In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant approach to financial risks is to ensure that the business is robust impact on Rio Tintos financial results.
A strengthening of the US dollar enough to enable exposures to float with the market.
However the Group against the currencies in which the Groups costs are partly determined may choose to fix some financial exposures when it is deemed has a positive effect on Rio Tintos Underlying earnings.
However, a appropriate to do so.
strengthening of the US dollar does reduce the value of non US dollar denominated net assets and therefore total equity.
The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and operates in a Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, the number of markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both This diversity also provides some naturally offsetting long-term internally and externally.
It is also the most appropriate currency for positions, for example Australian and Canadian currencies tend to financing the Groups operations.
Borrowings and cash are strengthen when commodity prices are high and vice versa.
predominantly denominated in US dollars, either directly or through the Treasury operations use of derivatives.
Treasury is a centralised support and service function that acts as the Certain financial assets and liabilities, including intragroup balances, are custodian of the Groups cash and balance sheet and its key financial held in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant risks.
It performs its activities in a strong control environment, within subsidiary.
This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and board approved limits.
It is responsible for losses as the financial assets and liabilities are translated into the managing liquidity through funding and investments as well as financial functional currency of the subsidiary that holds those assets and risks such as foreign exchange, interest, financial counterparty credit, liabilities.
 commodity, insurance and pension risk.
It is also responsible for income statement except to the extent that they can be taken to equity managing banking relationships across the Group.
under the Groups accounting policy which is explained in note 1 d. Exchange gains and losses on US dollar net debt held in subsidiaries with Treasury policy a non-US dollar functional currency and on all intragroup balances are Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for excluded from underlying earnings.
Other exchange gains and losses are trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material included in underlying earnings.
exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments See section B for the details of cross currency interest rate swaps in joint arrangements and associates.
However, derivatives are used as relating to borrowings.
and when required in order to manage the Groups exposure in accordance with its underlying financial risk management principles.
After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Cash management and investment activities are managed and Groups net debt is denominated in US dollars.
The table below co-ordinated centrally by Treasury using only approved counterparties summarises, by currency, the Groups net debt, after taking into account and within allocated credit limits which are reviewed and approved by the relevant cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange board at least annually.
contracts: Cash and Derivatives Net funds Net funds cash Other Total borrowings related to debt debt equivalents investments in note 22 net debt 2016 2015 Net funds debt by currency US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 7,631 250 16,791 408 9,294 13,517 Australian dollar 253 566 313 277 Euro 40 102 62 88 South African rand 104 1 103 29 Canadian dollar 15 170 155 121 Other 158 134 191 Total 8,201 250 17,630 408 9,587 13,783 Hedging strategy specific commercial circumstances, typically hedging of capital Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe expenditures and other significant financial items such as acquisitions, that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long-term disposals, tax and dividends, and are subject to strict limits laid down by benefits to shareholders.
The Group reviews its exposure on a regular the board.
Refer to section B for the details of cross currency interest basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial rate, currency forward and option contracts used to manage the currency stability.
Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2016.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION Sensitivities underlying earnings, assuming that each exchange rate moves in The table below gives the estimated retranslation effect on financial isolation.
The sensitivities are based on financial assets and financial assets and financial liabilities of a ten per cent strengthening in the liabilities held at 31 December 2016, where balances are not closing exchange rate of the US dollar against significant currencies.
The denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint sensitivity associated with a ten per cent weakening of a particular operation, and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity currency would be broadly equal and opposite to the figures presented.
These balances will not remain constant throughout The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings and 2017, and therefore the following information should be used with care.
At 31 December 2016 Gains losses associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount Closing Effect on impacting exchange net underlying rate earnings earnings Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m Australian dollar 72 369 37 Canadian dollar 74 159 15 Euro 105 172 At 31 December 2015 Gains losses associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount Closing Effect on impacting exchange net underlying rate earnings earnings Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m Australian dollar 73 182 58 Canadian dollar 72 771 2 Euro 109 60 25 Ten per cent is the annual exchange rate movement that management approximately 4.0 per cent 2015: approximately 3.5 per cent and the deems to be reasonably probable on an annual basis over the long run weighted average maturity was approximately ten years 2015: eight for one of the Groups significant currencies and as such provides an years.
The weighted average maturity and weighted average interest appropriate representation.
rate are based on current interest rates and the carrying value of total adjusted borrowings at the year end.
ii Interest rate risk See note 22 for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2016.
Management policy Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument Sensitivities or cash flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate due to Based on the Groups net debt refer to note 24 and other floating rate changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate management financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2016, the effect on policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates.
This net earnings of a 100 basis point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest approach is based on a historical correlation between interest rates and rates, with all other variables held constant, would be a charge of commodity prices.
However, in certain circumstances the Group may US$44 million 2015: US$8 million.
The Group has an exposure to elect to maintain a higher proportion of fixed rate funding.
interest rate volatility within shareholders equity arising from fair value .
Thesederivatives Hedging strategy have an underlying exposure to sterling and US dollar rates.
With all As noted above, the Group hedges its interest rate risk by entering into factors remaining constant and based on the composition of derivatives interest rate derivatives to achieve its policies.
The Group reviews the impacting the cash flow reserve at 31 December 2016, the sensitivity of positions on a regular basis and may act to monetise in-the-money a 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the currencies in instruments either to take advantage of favourable market conditions, isolation would impact equity, before tax, by US$84 million charge 2015: manage counterparty credit risk or as part of its debt management US$100 million charge for sterling and US$95 million credit 2015: programme.
During 2016 in conjunction with its liability management US$103 million credit for US dollar.
A 100 basis point decrease would programme, the Group closed out interest rate swaps with a notional have broadly the same impact in the opposite direction.
These balances principal amount of US$3 billion, giving rise to a net cash inflow of will not remain constant throughout 2017, and therefore this information US$113 million, including accrued interest of US$25 million.
The interest should be used with care.
rate swaps were in fair value hedge relationships prior to close out.
See section B for details of currency and interest rate swaps relating to iii Commodity price risk borrowings.
Management policy The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market At the end of 2016, US$14.7 billion 2015: US$10.8 billion of the prices.
 Groups adjusted total borrowings was at floating rates after taking into board and to rigid internal controls.
account interest and currency interest rate swaps, resulting in a floating to fixed debt ratio of 81 per cent floating to 19 per cent fixed Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contracts 2015: 47 per cent floating to 53 per cent fixed.
On a net debt basis, the which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in floating to fixed debt ratio was 65 per cent floating to 35 per cent fixed the spot market.
The prices are determined by reference to prevailing 2015: 11 per cent floating to 89 per cent fixed.
These ratios were market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange principally impacted by the repayment of fixed rate bonds during the LME and the Commodities Exchange COMEX in New York.
Prices year and the draw down of predominantly floating rate debt in relation to fluctuate widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand Oyu Tolgoi project financing See Note 30A v. The weighted average but, in the long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
interest rate on total adjusted borrowings as at 31 December 2016 was Gold is also priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 151 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued changes in quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one sell non-financial items can be net settled but were entered into and source of supply: investment and disinvestment can be important continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the elements of supply and demand.
Contract prices for many other natural non-financial item in accordance with the business units expected resource products including coal are generally agreed quarterly or for purchase, sale or usage requirements.
longer periods with customers, although volume commitments vary by iv Credit risk product.
Treasury management policy Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are provisionally Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations priced, that is the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on primarily from customer receivables and from its financing activities, provisionally priced sales based on estimates of fair value of the including investments in government securities, deposits with banks and consideration receivable which is based on forward market prices.
At financial institutions, other short-term investments, interest rate and each reporting date provisionally priced metal sales are marked to currency derivative contracts and other financial instruments.
 Credit risks related to receivables contract.
For this purpose the expected selling price can be measured Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the  Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer concentrate for which the price is directly related to the price of copper credit risk management.
Credit limits are established for all customers for which an active and freely traded commodity market exists, such as based on internal or external rating criteria.
Where customers are rated the LME, and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to by an independent credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set .
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded the credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive as an adjustment to sales revenue.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any credit concerns highlighted to senior management.
During 2016, the Group had 235 million pounds of unsettled copper High-risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters sales 2015: 252 million pounds that were provisionally priced at of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
US 250 cents per pound 2015: US 217 cents per pound.
The final price of these sales will be determined during the first half of 2017.
A ten per At 31 December 2016, the Group had approximately 92 customers cent change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced 2015: 74 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million each sales, all other factors held constant, would increase or reduce net and these balances accounted for approximately 74 per cent earnings by US$36 million 2015: US$36 million.
2015: 75 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 24 customers 2015: 13 customers with balances greater than US$20 million Hedging strategy accounting for just over 42 per cent 2015: 37 per cent of total amounts Rio Tintos exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its receivable.
Details of trade and other receivables past due but not broad commodity base and the Group does not generally believe impaired are provided in note 18. commodity price hedging would provide a long-term benefit to shareholders.
The Group may hedge certain commitments with some of The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying its customers or suppliers.
Details of commodity derivatives held at value of each class of financial assets refer to table of financial assets 31 December 2016 are set out in section B. and liabilities reported on page 149.. Sensitivities Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits The Groups commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market Credit risk from investments in government securities primarily US prices and include those aluminium forward and option contracts Government, corporate and asset backed or money market funds and embedded in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by Group 2016.
A ten per cent increase in aluminium market prices would reduce Treasury in accordance with a board approved policy.
Investments of net earnings by US$144 million 2015: US$70 million, and a ten per surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties who have cent decrease in prices would increase net earnings by US$139 million been assigned specific credit limits beforehand based on specific 2015: US$58 million.
A ten per cent change in prices would have nil assessment criteria.
The counterparty credit framework and limits are impact on equity, before tax 2015: nil.
reviewed by the board at least annually.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of credit risk and therefore mitigate the potential for The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity financial loss through counterparty failure.
analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
Such contracts to buy or The maximum credit risk exposure of the Groups financial assets at the balance sheet date is as follows: 2016 2015 Note US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 21 8,201 9,366 Trade and other receivables 3,432 2,468 Investments 20 454 206 Derivative assets 20 532 606 Total 12,619 12,646 v Liquidity and capital risk management financial risk management framework are desirable to preserve financial flexibility and generate shareholder value through the cycle.
In practice, Management policy this involves regular reviews by the board and senior management.
The Groups overriding objective when managing capital is to safeguard These reviews take into account the Groups strategic priorities, the business as a going concern whilst maximising returns for economic and business conditions and opportunities that are identified to shareholders.
In a cyclical and capital intensive industry such as the invest across all points of the commodities cycle and focus on the mining industry, maintaining a strong balance sheet and a sound dividend policy and other forms of shareholder return whilst also striving 152 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION to maintain a strong balance sheet.
In February 2016, the Group boards intention to supplement the ordinary dividends with additional announced a change in its dividend policy, moving from a progressive returns to shareholders.
The resulting capital structure provides the dividend policy to a dividend determined by, taking into account the Group with a high degree of financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
results for the financial year, the outlook for the Groups major To maintain a strong balance sheet, the Group considers various financial commodities, the boards view of the long-term growth prospects of the metrics including a net gearing ratio of 20 to 30 per cent, the overall business and the Groups objective of maintaining a strong balance level of borrowings and their maturity profile, liquidity levels, total sheet.
The board expects total cash returns to shareholders over the capital, cash flow, EBITDA and interest cover ratios either on a statutory longer term to be in a range of 40 60 per cent of underlying earnings in  aggregate throughout the cycle.
Acknowledging the cyclical nature of agencies.
the industry in periods of strong earnings and cash generation it is the 2016 2015 Total capital Note US$m US$m Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto see Group balance sheet 39,290 37,349 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests see Group balance sheet 6,440 6,779 Net debt 24 9,587 13,783 Total capital 55,317 57,911 Net debt is a measure used by management and the board to manage the loss on early redemption of bonds was seven times 2015: seven the Groups capital structure and liquidity risks.
Net debt is disclosed in times.
Net debt decreased from US$13.8 billion at 31 December 2015 The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross to US$9.6 billion at 31 December 2016 as operating cash inflows and guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto divestment proceeds were partly offset by capital expenditure and cash Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
The table below returns to shareholders.
At 31 December 2016 net debt to total capital summarises the credit ratings attributed to the Group by Standard and was 17 per cent 2015: 24 per cent and interest cover which includes Poors and Moodys investor services as at 31 December.
2016 2015 a Long term rating ABaa1 AA3 Short term rating A-1 P-2 A-2 P-2 Outlook Stable Negative a Stable Stable a On 27 February 2017, the Group was upgraded to A3 with a stable outlook.
The Group has access to various forms of financing including its US Shelf completion : US$1,591 million commercial banks B Loan due 2027 Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme, Commercial Paper LIBOR plus 3.4% pre-completion, LIBOR plus 4.4% post completion : and credit facilities.
The Group did not issue any listed debt in 2016 US$283 million Export Credit Agencies Loan due 2028 fixed at 2.3% : under these programmes.
US$900 million Export Credit Agencies Loan due 2029 LIBOR plus 3.65% pre-completion, LIBOR plus 4.65% post completion : and During 2016, the Group redeemed US$7,500 million, in aggregate, US$850 million International Financial Institutions A Loan due 2030 principal value of the bonds issued by Rio Tinto Finance USA plc and LIBOR plus 3.78% pre-completion, LIBOR plus 4.78% post completion.
Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited as part of a liability management The project finance lenders have agreed a debt cap of US$6,000 million.
Asaresult, US$500millionofthe2%2017bond, In addition to the funding drawn down to date US$4,323 million there is US$1,250 million of the 1.625% 2017 bond, US$1,750 million of the an additional US$84 million available under the facilities to draw down, 6.5% 2018 bond, US$1,250 million of the 2.25% 2018 bond, subject to certain conditions and the potential for an additional US$246 million of the 9% 2019 bond, US$535 million of the 3.5% 2020 US$1,593 million of Supplemental Debt in future.
bond, US$420 million of the 4.125% 2021 bond, US$523 million of the 3.75% 2021 bond, US$540 million of the 3.5% 2022 bond and In November 2015, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited US$486 million of the 2.875% 2022 bond were redeemed early resulting amended and extended its, in aggregate, US$7.5 billion multi-currency in an aggregate cash outflow of US$7,941 million before fees.
revolving credit facilities, originally signed in 2013, with a syndicate of banks.
The facilities had two one-year extension options, the first of In June 2015, under its US Shelf Programme, the Group issued a Rio which was utilised in November 2016.
A US$1,875 million facility Tinto Finance USA Limited US$1,200 million 3.75% bond due 2025. currently matures in November 2019 and a US$5,625 million facility The proceeds were used to repurchase the Rio Tinto Finance USA including a US$ denominated same day access swing-line facility Limited US$700 million 2.5% bond due 2016 and the Rio Tinto Finance matures in November 2021.
The remaining extension option could be USA Limited US$500 million 2.25% bond due 2016. utilised in 2017, subject to the agreement by the banks, extending the During 2016, Oyu Tolgoi LLC drew down US$4,323 million under the maturities to November 2020 and November 2022 respectively.
The project finance facility signed in December 2015.
The project finance funds made available under the facility agreements may be used for the facility provides for interest-only payments for the first five years general corporate purposes of the Group.
followed by minimum repayments according to a stepped amortisation Advances under the revolving facilities bear an interest rate per annum schedule for the remaining life of the facility.
The due dates stated below based on LIBOR or EURIBOR, CDOR or BBSW in relation to any euro, represent the final repayment date.
Canadian dollar or Australian dollar loans respectively plus a margin which is dependent on the Groups long-term credit rating as The facility is provided and funded by international financial institutions determined by Moodys and Standard & Poors and the level of and export credit agencies representing the governments of the United drawdown.
The facility agreements contain no financial covenants.
At States, Canada and Australia, along with 15 commercial banks.
31 December 2016 the facilities were undrawn.
Drawdown comprised, in aggregate, US$699 million MIGA Insured Loan due2027 LIBORplus2.65%pre-completion, LIBORplus3.65%post 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 153 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued A c Financial liability analysis sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances  will not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2016 Within 1yearoron Between Between Between Between After demand 1and2years 2and3years 3and4years 4and5years 5years Total Outflows inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 4,925 461 5,386 Borrowings before swaps 704 191 1,330 1,347 1,317 12,806 17,695 a Expected future interest payments 783 779 722 667 620 5,056 8,627 Other financial liabilities 199 41 240 b Derivative financial liabilities Derivatives related to net debt net settled 29 29 27 25 23 25 158 Derivatives related to net debt a gross settled : gross inflows 55 55 55 842 40 1,377 2,424 gross outflows 73 73 73 1,045 51 1,785 3,100  2 2 Derivatives not related to net debt gross settled: grossinflows 29 29 grossoutflows 29 29 Total 6,602 1,461 2,043 2,192 1,925 18,245 32,468 At 31 December 2015 Within 1yearoron Between Between Between Between After demand 1and2years 2and3years 3and4years 4and5years 5years Total Outflows inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 4,967 406 5,373 Borrowings before swaps 2,266 1,889 3,462 1,538 1,945 12,318 23,418 a Expected future interest payments 884 867 837 628 561 4,789 8,566 Other financial liabilities 190 5 195 b Derivative financial liabilities Derivatives related to net debt net settled 30 30 30 30 29 28 177 Derivatives related to net debt a gross settled : grossinflows 62626262 872 1,617 2,737 gross outflows 65 65 65 65 1,039 1,824 3,123 Derivatives not related to net debt net settled 29 6 2 37 Derivatives not related to net debt gross settled: grossinflows 22 22 grossoutflows 22 22 Total 8,309 3,146 4,272 2,139 2,644 17,288 37,798 a Interest payments have been projected using .
 interest rates, future interest payments are subject to change in line with market rates.
b The maturity grouping is based on the earliest payment date.
The maximum carrying value of borrowings repayable, after the impact of swaps, maturing in any financial year is US$1.7 billion 2015: US$3.3 billion.
Offsetting and enforceable master netting agreements net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in There were no material amounts offset in the balance sheet and no the consolidated balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right material balances associated with enforceable master netting to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a agreements were identified.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION B a Derivative financial instruments The Groups derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2016, are summarised below: Total fair value 2016 2015 Asset Liability Asset Liability Derivatives designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m a Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 5 b Interest rate swaps 108 134 189 16 c Cross currency interest rate swaps 382 259 Currency forward contracts, options and swaps 1 Total derivatives designated as hedges 109 516 194 275 Derivatives not designated as hedges Currency forward contracts, options and swaps 1 13 d Aluminium forward contracts 6 2 5 22 a Aluminium forward contracts options embedded in electricity purchase contracts 411 3 373 3 Other embedded derivatives 5 21 Other commodity contracts 2 24 Total derivatives not designated as hedges 423 7 412 49 Total derivative instruments 532 523 606 324 Analysed by maturity: Less than 1 year 24 6 78 41 Between 1 and 5 years 110 194 121 144 More than 5 years 398 323 407 139 Total 532 523 606 324 Total net derivative instruments 9 282 2016 2015 Reconciliation to balance sheet Note US$m US$m non-current assets 20 508 529 current assets 20 24 77 current liabilities 22 6 41 non-current liabilities 22 517 283 Total net derivatives instruments, detailed above 9 282 a Aluminium embedded derivatives forward contracts and options are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
These contracts reduce the Groups margin exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
b The interest rate swaps are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
For further details, see note 22. c The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to convert non US dollar denominated borrowings to either fixed or floating US dollar borrowings.
For further details see note 22. d The aluminium forward contracts are entered into to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash.
In 2016 the aluminium forward contracts which were taken out to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash were not designated as hedges as they are largely offset.
In 2015, the US$ 6 million ineffective portion arising from cash flow hedges was recognised in the income statement.
C a Fair values The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Groups cash equivalents and loans to equity accounted units approximate their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Short term borrowings 22 717 706 2,253 2,255 Medium and long term borrowings 22 16,913 18,437 20,810 20,302 Borrowings with a carrying value of US$11.9 billion 2015: 2015: nil and are categorised as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The US$21.3 billion relate to listed bonds with a fair value of US$12.9 billion remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by discounting 2015: US$20.8 billion and are categorised as level 1 in the fair value estimated cash flows with an applicable market quoted yield and are hierarchy.
Borrowings with a carrying value of US$4.1 billion 2015: nil categorised as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
com 155 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued C b Valuation hierarchy The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2016: Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Equity shares and quoted funds 20 156 94 3 59 d Other investments, including loans 20 454 363 68 23 e Trade receivables 2,283 143 2,140 2,893 457 143 71 2,222 Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 1 1 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as f hedges Section B 416 8 408 g Derivatives related to net debt Section B 408 408 2,902 457 256 479 2,222 The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2015: Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Equity shares and quoted funds 20 157 87 7 10 53 d Other investments, including loans 20 206 99 71 36 e Trade receivables 1,370 12 1,358 1,733 186 19 81 1,447 Derivatives f Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 5 5 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as f hedges Section B 363 7 370 g Derivatives related to net debt Section B 86 86 2,015 186 74 456 1,447 a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
b Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which include quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active, or inputs, either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
c Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
d Other investments, including loans, mainly comprise of: cash deposits in rehabilitation funds, government bonds, managed investment funds and royalty amounts receivable.
The royalty receivables are valued based on an estimate of forward sales subject to the royalty agreement.
e Trade receivables includes provisionally priced receivables relating to sales contracts where selling price is determined after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
At the end of December 2016, US$143 million 2015 US$12 million of provisionally priced receivables were recognised.
f Level 3 derivatives consist of derivatives embedded in electricity purchase contracts linked to the LME with terms expiring between 2017 and 2030 2015: 2016 and 2030.
The embedded derivatives are measured using discounted cash flows and option model valuation techniques.
Long-term embedded derivatives with a fair value of US$408 million at 31 December 2016 2015: US$370 million are valued using significant unobservable inputs as the term of the derivative extends beyond the forward curve for aluminium.
Aluminium prices are flatlined beyond the market forward curve and increased by projected inflation up to the date of expiry of the contract.
At 31 December 2015 US$5 million were categorised as level 3 as the market premium assumptions used represent unobservable inputs.
g Interest rate and currency interest rate swaps are valued using applicable market quoted swap yield curves adjusted for relevant basis and credit default spreads.
Currency interest rate swap valuations also use market quoted foreign exchange rates.
A discounted cash flow approach is applied to the cash flows derived from the inputs to determine fair value.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2, or between Level 2 and Level 3 in the year ended 31 December 2016 or the year ended 31 December 2015.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION C c Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities.
31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Level 3 financial assets Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities and financial liabilities US$m US$m Opening balance 456 282 Currency translation adjustments 2 43 Total realised gains losses included in: Consolidated sales revenue 1 Net operating costs 28 6 Total unrealised gains included in: Net operating costs 11 196 Total unrealised gains transferred into other comprehensive income 15 Additions 43 Impairment 2 Closing balance 479 456 Total gains losses for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities held at year end 11 15 Sensitivity analysis in respect of Level 3 derivatives increase in long-term metal pricing assumptions would result in a  US$38 million 31 December 2015: US$38 million decrease in carrying unobservable inputs are calculated using appropriate discounted value.
A ten per cent decrease in long-term metal pricing assumptions cashflow and option model valuation techniques.
The most significant of would result in a US$64 million 31 December 2015: US$39 million these assumptions relate to long-term pricing wherein internal pricing increase in carrying value.
assumptions are used after the ten year LME curve.
A ten per cent 31 Contingencies and commitments 2016 2015 US$m US$m Capital commitments excluding the Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments Within 1 year 1,588 710 Between 1 and 3 years 433 98 Between 3 and 5 years 194 2 After 5 years 15 24 Total 2,230 834 Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments Within 1 year 113 300 Between 1 and 3 years 57 Total 113 357 Capital commitments include open purchase orders for managed Aluminium Company L. L. C. an aluminium smelter in which the Group is operations and expenditure on major projects authorised to date by the a joint venturer.
The Group immediately sells the purchased products to Rio Tinto Investment Committee for non-managed operations.
legally enforceable basis capital commitments would be some US$1.6bn TheGroup, , hasmadevarious less as many of the contracts relating to the Groups projects have commitments to provide shareholder funding as required for Sohar various cancellation clauses.
Aluminium Company L. L. C. subject to approved thresholds.
Unrecognised commitments to contribute funding or resources to At 31 December 2016, Minera Escondida Limitada held an undrawn joint ventures shareholder line of credit for US$225 million Rio Tinto share.
This has a The Group has a commitment to purchase and market a portion in threeyearduration.
excess of the Groups ownership interest of the output of Sohar 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 157 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 31 Contingencies and commitments continued Operating leases The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2016 2015 US$m US$m Within 1 year 353 400 Between 1 and 3 years 495 590 Between 3 and 5 years 385 443 After 5 years 612 745 1,845 2,178 Operating leases include leases of dry bulk vessels and offices as well as other property, plant and equipment.
The terms of lease payments vary with a significant proportion being fixed rate and including renewal options.
Leases for dry bulk vessels include costs for crewing services.
Purchase obligations The aggregate amount of future payment commitments under purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: a Adjusted 2016 2015 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2,631 2,677 Between 1 and 2 years 1,624 2,269 Between 2 and 3 years 1,327 1,856 Between 3 and 4 years 1,125 1,519 Between 4 and 5 years 1,040 1,346 a After 5 years 11,334 13,595 19,081 23,262 a The 2015 comparative has been amended to correctly present purchase obligations which are due later than five years.
The impact is to increase total 2015 purchase obligations by US$650 million, all of which is due after five years.
Purchase obligations as disclosed above are agreements to purchase Purchases from joint arrangements or associates are included to the goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all extent that the quantity purchased is in excess of Rio Tintos ownership significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased interest in the entity.
However, purchase obligations exclude contracted or consumed: fixed, minimum or variable price provisions: and the purchases of bauxite, alumina and aluminium from joint arrangements approximate timing of the transactions.
and associates and contracted purchases of alumina from third parties as the purchases are made for commercial reasons and the Group is, Purchase obligations for goods primarily relate to purchases of raw overall, a net seller of these commodities.
materials and consumables and purchase obligations for services primarily relate to charges for use of infrastructure, commitments to In addition, as explained above, the Group has a commitment to purchase power and freight contracts.
These goods and services are purchase and market a portion in excess of the Groups ownership expected to be used in the business.
To the extent that this changes a interest of the output of Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. provision for onerous obligations may be made as described in note 1 i.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Contingent liabilities subsidiaries and joint operations a b Indemnities and other performance guarantees 473 226 a Indemnities and other performance guarantees represent the potential outflow of funds from the Group for the satisfaction of obligations including those under contractual arrangements for example undertakings related to supplier agreements not provided for in the balance sheet, where the likelihood of the guarantees or indemnities being called is assessed as possible rather than probable or remote.
b There were no material contingent liabilities arising in relation to the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Contingent liabilities On 9 November 2016, Rio Tinto announced that, following an The likely outcome on the Group of these regulatory investigations, and investigation led by external counsel, it had notified or was in the course any associated litigation, is subject to a number of significant of notifying the relevant authorities in the United States, United Kingdom uncertainties at the present time.
They could ultimately expose the and Australia of information concerning contractual payments totalling Group to material financial cost.
The Board has established a dedicated US$10.5 million made to a consultant who had provided advisory Committee chaired by the chairman of the board to keep these matters services on the Simandou project in Guinea.
Rio Tinto is cooperating fully under review as they progress.
with each of the relevant authorities.
On 12 December 2016, a class Guarantees by parent companies action was also filed in the United States District Court for the Southern Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have, jointly and severally, fully and District of New York against Rio Tinto plc and certain of its current and unconditionally guaranteed the following securities issued by the former directors in connection with the Simandou payments.
following 100 per cent owned finance subsidiaries: US$8.3 billion On 1 December 2016, Rio Tinto confirmed that it was cooperating with 31 December 2015: US$17.3 billion Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited relevant authorities including the U. S. Securities and Exchange and Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds with maturity dates up to 2042: Commission in connection with an investigation into the impairment and US$1.9 billion 31 December 2015: US$2.1 billion on the European included in the Companys 2012 accounts in respect of Rio Tinto Debt Issuance Programme.
In addition, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Coal Mozambique.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION Tinto Finance Limited have entered into facility arrangements for an The Rio Tinto guarantee applies to the extent that Turquoise Hill aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion 31 December 2015: US$7.5 billion.
Resources Ltd cannot satisfy Oyu Tolgoi LLCs project finance debt The facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
servicing obligations under its own guarantee to the lenders, called the sponsor debt service undertaking DSU.
Both the CSU and DSU contain Rio Tinto plc has provided a guarantee, known as the completion support a carve-out for certain political risk events.
undertaking CSU, in favour of the Oyu Tolgoi LLC project finance lenders.
At 31 December 2016 US$4,323 million of project finance debt Contingent assets was outstanding under this facility 31 December 2015: US$ nil.
Oyu The Group has, from time to time, various insurance claims outstanding Tolgoi LLC is jointly owned by Erdenes Oyu Tolgoi LLC 34 per cent, with reinsurers.
At 31 December 2016 and 2015 this included a claim which is controlled by the Government of Mongolia, and Turquoise Hill relating to the Manefay slide at Rio Tinto Kennecott in April 2013.
Interim Resources Ltd 66 per cent, of which Rio Tinto owns 51 per cent.
The progress payments were received on this claim in 2013 and 2015: the project finance has been raised for development of the underground final payment was received in January 2017. mine and the CSU will terminate on the completion of the underground mine according to a set of completion tests set out in the project finance facility.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the average number of employees in Singapore was 262 2015: 212 and the average number of employees in India was 280 2015: 232.
Employee numbers, which represent the average for the year, include 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies.
Employee numbers for joint operations and equity accounted units are proportional to the Groups interest under contractual agreements.
Average employee numbers include a part-year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time-equivalent basis.
Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
People employed by contractors are not included.
com 159 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 33 Principal subsidiaries At 31 December 2016 Proportion Group Company and country of incorporation Class of shares of class interest Non-controlling operation Principal activities held held % % interest % Australia Argyle Diamonds Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 a Coal & Allied Industries Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.36 68.36 31.64 Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mining Ordinary 68.39 68.39 31.61 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 c North Mining Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 b Queensland Coal Pty Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: primary aluminium smelting Ordinary 100 100 Class A 40 c Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd Iron ore mining 60 40 ] Class B 73.61 Brazil d Alcan Alumina Ltda.
Alumina production and bauxite mining Quota 100 100 Canada Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation Uranium projects Common 100 100 e Iron Ore Company of Canada Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common 58.72 58.72 41.28 Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: high Common 100 100 purity iron and steel Class B preference 100 100 CAD 0.01 preferred 100 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: aluminium smelting Common 100 100 f Diavik Diamond Mines 2012 Inc. Diamond mining and processing Common 100 100 Guinea g Simfer Jersey Limited Iron ore project Ordinary 53 53 47 Madagascar h QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining Common 80 80 15 ] Investment certificates 100 100 Voting certificates 80 80 20 Mongolia Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd including Copper and gold mining Common 50.79 50.79 49.21 i Oyu Tolgoi LLC Namibia B N$1 71.22 j Rssing Uranium Limited Uranium mining 68.62 31.38 C N10c 70.59 South Africa Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Titanium dioxide high purity iron BOrdinary 100 k Limited production B preference 100 26 74 ] Parent Preference 100 Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Ilmenite, rutile and zircon k Limited mining B Ordinary 100 26 74 B preference 100 ] Parent Preference 100 United States of America Kennecott Holdings Corporation Copper and gold mining, smelting Common US$0.01 100 100 including Kennecott Utah Copper, and refining, land development and Kennecott Land and Kennecott exploration activities Exploration U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of Common US$0.10 100 100 borates This list includes only those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
Refer to note 47 for a list of related undertakings.
The Groups principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION a In February 2016, after a restructuring of the Coal and Allied group, Rio Tinto obtained a 100 per cent shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Mitsubishi became a joint venture participant in the Hunter Valley Operations Joint Venture.
b Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that holds the Groups interests in Hail Creek 82 per cent, Blair Athol 71.2 per cent and Kestrel 80 per cent.
These are unincorporated arrangements that are not entities: the Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements.
Queensland Coal forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
In September 2016 the Blair Athol Coal Joint Venture signed a conditional sale and purchase agreement to transfer its interests in the Blair Athol mine to TerraCom Limited.
The transaction has not completed and is subject to certain conditions precedent being met, including approval from the Queensland Government.
c Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd which is 60 per cent owned by the Group holds a 30 per cent interest in Robe River Iron Associates Robe River.
North Mining Limited which is wholly owned by the Group holds a 35 per cent interest in Robe River.
Through these companies the Group recognises a 65 per cent share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of Robe River, with a 12 per cent non-controlling interest.
The Group therefore has a 53 per cent beneficial interest in Robe River.
d Alcan Alumina Ltda holds the Groups 10 per cent interest in Consrcio fide Alumnio Do Maranho, a joint operation in which the Group participates but is not a joint operator.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to this arrangement.
e Iron Ore Company of Canada is incorporated in the United States of America, but operates in Canada.
f Diavik Diamond Mines 2012 Inc. is the legal entity that owns the Groups 60 per cent interest in the Diavik Joint Venture, an unincorporated arrangement that is not an entity.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to this arrangement.
g Simfer Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in Jersey in which the Group has a 53 per cent interest, has an 80.75 per cent interest in Simfer S. A. the company that operates the Simandou mining project in Guinea.
The Group therefore has a 42.80 per cent indirect interest in Simfer S. A.
These entities are consolidated as subsidiaries and together referred to as the Simandou iron ore project.
h The Groups shareholding in QIT Madagascar Minerals SA carries an 80 per cent economic interest and 80 per cent of the total voting rights: a further 5 per cent economic interest is held through non-voting investment certificates to give an economic interest of 85 per cent.
The non-controlling interests have a 15 per cent economic interest and 20 per cent of the total voting rights.
i The Group has a 50.79 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill, which holds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC OT which is subsidiary of Turquoise Hill.
The Group therefore has a 33.5 per cent indirect interest in OT.
Turquoise Hill is incorporated in Canada but operates principally in Mongolia.
j The Groups shareholding in Rssing Uranium Limited Rssing holds 35.57 per cent of the total voting rights: the non-controlling interests hold 64.43 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rssing is consolidated by virtue of the Groups board control.
The Government of Namibia has the ability to veto matters that are considered not to be in the interest of Namibia: this is considered to be a protective right.
Rio Tinto therefore has control of Rssing and consolidates it as a subsidiary.
k Additional classes of shares issued by Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited representing non-controlling interests are not shown.
The Groups total legal and beneficial interest in Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited is 74 per cent.
Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the subsidiaries financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments, and before intercompany eliminations.
Iron Ore Iron Ore Energy Energy Company of Company of Resources of Resources of Turquoise Turquoise a a c b b Canada Canada Australia Australia Simandou Simandou Hill Hill 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,324 1,353 193 245 1,203 1,636 Profit loss after tax 108 12 7 412 323 1,955 140 215 attributable to non-controlling interests 44 4 2 132 160 974 37 76 attributable to Rio Tinto 64 8 5 280 163 981 103 139 Other comprehensive income loss 56 341 21 2 7 Total comprehensive income loss 164 353 7 433 323 1,955 142 222 Non-current assets 2,315 2,325 58 89 7,969 7,712 Current assets 627 412 383 363 18 18 5,702 1,728 Current liabilities 348 261 96 94 243 78 316 322 Non-current liabilities 755 724 336 355 19 19 4,257 167 Net assets liabilities 1,839 1,752 9 3 244 79 9,098 8,951 attributable to non-controlling interests 759 724 2 1 125 44 4,073 4,075 attributable to Rio Tinto 1,080 1,028 7 2 119 35 5,025 4,876 Cash flow from operations 302 206 18 56 157 59 387 658 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 31 a These figures represent the consolidated position of both Simfer Jersey Limited and Simfer S. A. which together form the Simandou Iron Ore project.
In 2016, a post-tax charge of US$194 million Rio Tinto share US$103 million has been recognised in Simfer Jersey Limited as a financial liability following the decision by International Finance Corporation IFC to exercise a put option in respect of its 4.25% investment in Simfer SA.
b Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd holds controlling interests in Oyu Tolgoi.
The main driver of the increase in non-current liabilities and current assets, compared with 2015, was the draw-down of Oyu Tolgoi Project financing and the subsequent placing of net proceeds with 9539549 Canada Inc. a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto.
Net proceeds placed with 9539549 Canada Inc. are returned to Turquoise Hill as required for the purposes of Oyu Tolgoi underground mine development and financing.
c These amounts include impairment adjustments recognised by Rio Tinto.
Refer to note 6 on page 133 for further information.
com 161 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 33 Principal subsidiaries continued Other Other Robe River Robe River companies companies Mining Co Mining Co and and a a Pty Ltd Pty Ltd eliminations eliminations Robe River Robe River 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 982 976 1,139 1,133 2,121 2,109 Profit loss after tax 482 615 517 203 999 818 attributable to non-controlling interests 193 176 193 176 attributable to Rio Tinto 289 439 517 203 806 642 Other comprehensive loss 23 107 20 578 43 685 Total comprehensive income loss 459 508 497 375 956 133 Non-current assets 2,797 2,935 3,976 4,154 6,773 7,089 Current assets 1,122 602 401 10 721 592 Current liabilities 92 105 148 247 240 352 Non-current liabilities 666 60 1,546 2,120 2,212 2,180 Net assets 3,161 3,372 1,881 1,777 5,042 5,149 attributable to nocontrolling interests 1,263 1,347 1,263 1,347 attributable to Rio Tinto 1,898 2,025 1,881 1,777 3,779 3,802 Cashflow from operations 145 798 1,496 733 1,641 1,531 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 268 271 268 271 a Other companies and eliminations includes North Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group which accounts for its interest in Robe River and goodwill of US$360 million 2015: US$363 million that arose on acquisition of the Groups interest in Robe River.
34 Principal joint operations Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities Group interest % Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 a Kestrel Coal mining 80 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 b c Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 80 New Zealand b c New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 79.4 Canada Aluminerie Alouette Inc. Aluminium production 40 Indonesia d Grasberg expansion Copperandgoldmining 40 United States of America c e Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc Aluminium smelting 50.3 This list includes only those joint operations that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups joint operations are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has an 80 per cent interest share in the Kestrel Joint Venture, decisions about activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the Joint Venture Agreement, giving rise to joint control.
b Although the Group has a 79.4 per cent interest in New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and an 80 per cent interest in Queensland Alumina Limited, decisions about activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the arrangements, giving rise to joint control.
c Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. are joint arrangements that are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties sharing joint control: this indicates that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets.
The liabilities of the arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the parties: this dependence indicates that the parties in effect have obligations for the liabilities.
It is these facts and circumstances that give rise to the classification of these entities as joint operations.
d Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of production above specified levels until the end of 2021 and 40 per cent of all production thereafter under the Participation Agreement.
This date is subject to extension under certain conditions.
e Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie fide Bcancour, Inc. aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 35 Principal joint ventures At 31 December 2016 Class of Proportion Group Number of shares of class interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held held held % % Chile a Minera Escondida Limitada Copper mining and refining 30 30 Oman b Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. Aluminium smelting power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 This list includes only those joint ventures that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal joint ventures are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has a 30 per cent interest in Minera Escondida Limitada, participant and management agreements provide for an Owners Council whereby significant commercial and operational decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated in effect require the joint approval of both Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton holders of a 57.5 per cent interest.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has joint control.
The year-end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June.
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are, however, based on accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
b Although the Group holds a 20 per cent interest in Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. decisions about relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of all parties to the arrangement.
Summary information for joint ventures that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the joint ventures financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Minera Minera Sohar Sohar Escondida Escondida Aluminium Aluminium a a a a Limitada Limitada Company LLC Company LLC 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 4,883 6,184 610 665 Depreciation and amortisation 1,213 977 130 135 Other operating costs 2,199 3,777 425 445 Operating profit 1,471 1,430 55 85 Finance expense 47 20 25 20 Income tax 517 533 5 Profit after tax 907 877 30 70 Total comprehensive income 907 877 30 70 Non-current assets 14,947 13,761 3,275 3,400 Current assets 2,257 2,177 255 255 Current liabilities 1,403 2,303 45 240 Non-current liabilities 4,112 2,223 1,505 1,480 Net assets 11,689 11,412 1,980 1,935 Assets and liabilities above include: Cash and cash equivalents 443 197 20 10 Current financial liabilities 467 1,223 20 170 Non-current financial liabilities 2,643 1,200 1,350 1,320 Dividends received from joint venture Rio Tinto share 401 401 Reconciliation of the above amounts to the carrying value of the Groups interest Group interest 30% 30% 20% 20% Net assets 11,689 11,412 1,980 1,935 Groups ownership interest 3,507 3,424 396 387 Other adjustments 3 11 2 Carrying value of Groups interest 3,504 3,413 394 387 a In addition to its Investment in equity accounted units, the Group recognises deferred tax liabilities of US$579 million 2015: US$582 million relating to tax on unremitted earnings of equity accounted units.
com 163 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 36 Principal associates At 31 December 2016 Class of Proportion Group Number of shares of class interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held held held % % Australia a BoyneSmeltersLimited Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 Brasil 25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 b Minerao Rio do Norte S. A. Bauxite mining 12 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 United States of America Halco Mining Inc c 4,500 Common 45 45 This list includes only those associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a The parties that collectively control Boyne Smelters Limited do so through decisions that are determined on an aggregate voting interest that can be achieved by several combinations of the parties.
Although each combination requires Rio Tintos approval, this is not joint control as defined under IFRS 11.
Rio Tinto is therefore determined to have significant influence over this company.
b Although the Group holds only 12 per cent of Minerao Rio do Norte S. A. it has representation on its board of directors and a consequent ability to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has significant influence.
c Halco Mining Inc has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
Summary information for associates that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the associates financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Boyne Boyne Smelters Smelters a a Limited Limited 2016 2015 US$m US$m Revenue Profit after tax 12 40 b Other comprehensive loss 4 91 Total comprehensive income loss 8 51 Non-current assets 1,465 1,525 Current assets 66 64 Current liabilities 121 106 Non-current liabilities 987 1,069 Net assets 423 414 a Boyne Smelters Limited is a tolling operation which under Group accounting policies requires the net presentation of income and expenses for product processed on behalf of the participating shareholders.
Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to Boyne for toll processing of alumina.
These are charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
b Other comprehensive loss is net of amounts recognised by subsidiaries in relation to quasi equity loans.
Group interest 59.4% 59.4% Net assets 423 414 Groups ownership interest 251 246 Loans to equity accounted units 163 183 Carrying value of Groups interest 414 429 Summary information for joint ventures and associates that are not individually material to the Group Joint Joint ventures ventures Associates Associates 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m Carrying value of Groups interest 10 707 702 Profit after tax 36 60 Other comprehensive income loss 15 13 43 Total comprehensive income 15 49 17 164 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses Acquisitions  classified as an available for sale investment.
On 17 June 2015, Rio Tinto disposed of its 77.8 per cent interest in Murowa Diamonds and 50 per cent interest in Sengwa Colliery Ltd 2016 disposals Sengwa to RZ Murowa Holdings Limited.
On 1 March 2016, Rio Tinto disposed of its 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla Joint Venture to New Hope Corporation Limited for Rio Tinto completed the sale of ECL to Fives on 9 July 2015 and the sale US$599 million net of working capital adjustments, transaction costs .
2014 disposals On 31 March 2016, Rio Tinto disposed of its 100 per cent interest in On 29 May 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50.1 per cent Carbone Savoie to Alandia Industries.
interest in the Clermont Joint Venture to GS Coal for US$1,015 million before finalisation of net debt and working capital adjustments.
On 20 July 2016, a tranche of 7.5 per cent non-contributory shares in Simfer S. A. was transferred free of charge to the Government of Guinea On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal as per the terms of the Simandou project agreement signed in 2014, Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and other projects in further diluting the ownership percentage of Rio Tinto and its partners in the Tete province of Mozambique, to International Coal Ventures Private the project.
Under the agreement, a second tranche comprising 10 per Limited for US$50 million before net debt and working cent Ordinary Contributory Shares may be acquired at any time for a pro capital adjustments.
rata share of historical mining cost.
The remaining two tranches of 5 per Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50 per cent share in SRAL to Norsk cent ordinary contributing shares may be acquired by the Government of Hydro Aluminium ASA on 31 October 2014 and the sale of its 46.67 per Guinea at market value at any time after 22 April 2026 and 22 April cent share in Alucam to the Government of Cameroon on 2031 respectively.
On 2 September 2016, Rio Tinto disposed of its interest in Zululand On 26 May 2014, Rio Tinto and its Simandou project partners signed an Anthracite Colliery.
Investment Framework with the Government of Guinea and agreed to On 23 November 2016, Rio Tinto disposed of its 100 per cent interest in transfer an equity interest in Simfer S. A. to the state.
The arrangement Lochaber to SIMEC for US$410 million before finalisation of closing allows the Government of Guinea to acquire equity interests of up to adjustments and transaction costs of which US$224 million was 25 per cent of Simfer S. A. at a discount to fair value, and a further 10 per received in December 2016 and US$186 million is due to be received by cent at full fair value.
Arrangements to transfer an interest in a 31 March 2017. subsidiary undertaking at a discount to fair value are considered to be a share-based payment.
The discount provided or value given on the 2015 disposals 25 per cent interest in Simfer S. A. was calculated in accordance with On 23 April 2015, Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd completed the block sale IFRS 2 Share based payment as US$230 million.
of 48.7 million common shares in SouthGobi Resources Ltd and with further divestments has reduced its interest to below 20 per cent.
As at The first tranche of shares comprising 7.5 per cent non-contributory 31 December 2015 Turquoise Hill Resources Ltds interest in SouthGobi shares was transferred free of charge to the Government of Guinea on 26 May 2014.
38 Directors and key management remuneration Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: 2016 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 US$000 a Emoluments 9,186 10,590 11,090 Long-term incentive plans 3,071 2,118 3,444 12,257 12,708 14,534 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 69 52 55  1 a The aggregate figures in the table above include the full year remuneration for Jean-Sbastien Jacques.
Jean-Sbastien was appointed to an executive director position on 17 March 2016.
The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and During 2016, one director 2015: one: 2014: one accrued retirement members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and two directors 2015: comprises the executive directors, product group chief executive officers one: 2014: one accrued retirement benefits under defined and Group executives.
The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local directors was US$10,648,000 2015: US$6,385,000: 2014: currency at the average exchange rate for the year with the exception of US$6,653,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined bonus payments which, together with amounts payable under long-term contribution plans was US$69,000 2015: US$52,000: 2014: US$55,000.
incentive plans, have been translated at the year-end rate.
The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions and other Detailed information concerning directors remuneration, shareholdings retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its and options is shown in the Remuneration Report, including tables 1 to 3, directors was US$1,696,000 2015: US$6,375,000: 2014: on pages 70 to 107.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$nil 2015: US$nil: 2014: US$nil.
com 165 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 38 Directors and key management remuneration continued Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under IFRS, as defined in note 1, of the Groups key management, including directors, wasasfollows: 2016 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 US$000 Short-term employee benefits and costs 22,269 25,616 30,137 Post-employment benefits 3,461 1,049 1,449 Employment termination benefits 2,682 Share-based payments 15,806 17,566 19,676 44,218 44,231 51,262 The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key social security and accident premiums in Canada, the UK and US and management is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to payroll taxes in Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost 3 on pages 70 to 107. of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2,295,000 2015: US$2,320,000: 2014: US$2,870,000 and although disclosed here, are not included in table 1 of the Remuneration Report.
39 Auditors remuneration 2016 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m a Group Auditors remuneration Audit of the company 4.5 4.3 4.0 Audit of subsidiaries 9.0 10.1 10.7 Total audit 13.5 14.4 14.7 Audit related assurance service 0.9 0.9 1.1 b Other assurance services 0.6 0.9 1.0 Total assurance services 1.5 1.8 2.1 c Tax compliance 0.5 0.5 0.4 c Tax advisory services 0.1 0.4 0.5 Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above services in connection with bond issues capital raising 0.2 0.1 Other non-audit services not covered above 1.8 1.1 0.3 Total non-audit services 3.9 2.2 1.3 17.4 18.4 18.1 Audit fees payable to other accounting firms Audit of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries 2.1 1.9 2.7 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.1 0.2 0.4 2.2 2.1 3.1 a The remuneration payable to PwC, the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Committee sets the policy for the award of non-audit work to the auditors and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to member firms of PwC by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the payments made by joint operations.
Non-audit services arise largely from assurance and or regulation related work.
b Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements and sustainability assurance.
c Taxation services includes tax compliance and advisory services.
Tax compliance involves the review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes.
Tax advisory services include advice on non-recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 40 Related-party transactions Information about material related-party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: Subsidiary companies and joint operations Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 33.
Information relating to joint operations can be found in note 34.
Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables relate largely to amounts charged by equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina and purchasing of bauxite and aluminium.
Sales relate largely to sales of alumina to equity accounted units for smelting into aluminium.
2016 2015 2014 Income statement items US$m US$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 1,216 1,249 1,835 Sales to equity accounted units 248 307 625 Cash flow statement items US$m US$m US$m Dividends from equity accounted units 253 210 298 Net funding of equity accounted units 12 11 117 Balance sheet items US$m US$m US$m a Investments in equity accounted units note 15 5,019 4,941 4,868 Loans to equity accounted units note 20 39 42 71 Loans from equity accounted units note 22 49 37 52 b Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units note 18 298 315 423 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units note 25 243 231 225 a Investments in equity accounted units include quasi equity loans.
Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 35 and 36. b This includes prepayments of tolling charges.
Pension funds Information relating to pension fund arrangements is set out in note 45.
Directors and key management Details of directors and key management remuneration are set out in note 38 and in the Remuneration report on pages 70 to 107.
41 Exchange rates in US$ The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2016 financial statements were: Full-year average Year-end 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Sterling 1.36 1.53 1.65 1.22 1.48 1.56 Australian dollar 0.74 0.75 0.90 0.72 0.73 0.82 Canadian dollar 0.76 0.78 0.91 0.74 0.72 0.86 Euro 1.11 1.11 1.33 1.05 1.09 1.22 South African rand 0.068 0.079 0.092 0.073 0.064 0.086 42 Bougainville Copper Limited BCL 43 Events after the balance sheet date Rio Tinto transferred its 53.83 per cent shareholding in BCL to Equity On 24 January 2017, the Group announced it had reached a binding Trustees Limited independent trustee on 30 June 2016 for nil agreement for the sale of its wholly-owned Australian subsidiary Coal & consideration.
Equity Trustees Limited subsequently distributed the Allied Industries Limited to Yancoal Australia Limited for up to shares in accordance with the trust deed to nominees of each of the US$2.45 billion comprising an initial US$1.95 billion cash payment, Autonomous Bougainville Government 36.4 per cent and the payable at completion: and US$500 million in aggregate deferred cash Independent State of Papua New Guinea 17.4 per cent such that each payments, payable as annual instalments of US$100 million over five party controlled an equal share of BCL 36.4 per cent.
The Group did not years following completion.
previously consolidate BCL as it was determined that in accordance with Yancoal Australia is entitled to elect for an alternative purchase price IFRS, as defined in note 1, the Group did not control the relevant structure of a single cash payment at completion of US$2.35 billion.
Rio activities, being the mining of copper at the Panguna mine, which was Tinto will use the consideration received for general corporate purposes.
brought to a halt by unrest in 1989.
The carrying value has previously been fully impaired and therefore the transfer resulted in no financial On 8 February 2017, the Group announced an on-market share buy-back impact for the year ended 31 December 2016. of US$0.5 billion Rio Tinto plc shares.
Except as disclosed above, no significant events were identified after the balance sheet date.
com 167 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 44 Share-based payments Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a number of share-based incentive plans, which are described in detail in the Remuneration Report.
These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The charge that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tintos share-based incentive plans, and the related liability for cash-settled plans, .
Liability at the Charge recognised for the year end of the year 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Equity-settled plans 116 128 152 Cash-settled plans 1 1 Total 116 128 152 1 1 The main Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans are as follows: Management Share Plans The Management Share Plans were introduced in 2007 to provide Share Savings Plans conditional share-based awards to management.
The vesting of these Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for awards is dependent on service conditions being met.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was awards will be settled in equity, including the dividends accumulated estimated using a lattice-based option valuation model, including from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled shareAwards are no longer granted under the Share Savings Plans as these based payment transactions.
plans were replaced by the Global Employee Share Plans in 2012.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to the share Charges will continue to be incurred until prior period awards have price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of vested.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at seven per cent per Share Option Plans annum of outstanding awards 2015: seven per cent per annum.
Awards are no longer granted under the Share Option Plans as the long Bonus Deferral Plans term incentive plan arrangements have been simplified and awards are The Bonus Deferral Plans were originally introduced in 2009 for the .
Allchargeshave mandatory deferral of the 2008 bonuses for executive directors, product been incurred as the remaining unvested awards vested during 2015. group executives and for other executives.
Additional Bonus Deferral There remain vested options outstanding under this plan.
Awards have been made each year since 2011 made in respect of the UK Share Plan formerly the Share Ownership Plan 2010 bonus for the mandatory deferral of 50 per cent of the bonuses for executive directors and product group executives and 25 per cent of the The fair values of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto plc are bonuses for other executives.
These awards are settled in equity.
The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met.
In general, the awards will be settled in equity including the Performance Share Plans dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The awards are Participants are generally assigned shares in settlement of their awards accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equityon vesting and therefore the awards are accounted for in accordance with settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of each award the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment  transactions.
small adjustment for the timing of dividends.
Forfeitures prior to vesting For the awards or parts of awards with Total Shareholder Return TSR are assumed at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards 2015: performance conditions, the fair value of the awards was calculated using three per cent per annum.
a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the TSR Global Employee Share Plans performance conditions.
One-third of the awards granted since 2013 are .
The subject to an earnings performance target relative to ten global mining Companies provide matching shares for each share purchased.
As this is a non-market related performance condition, vesting of these matching awards is dependent on service conditions under IFRS 2, the fair value recognised is reviewed at each accounting being met.
The fair value of each date based on the directors expectations for the proportion vesting.
As matching share on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the at 31 December 2016 it was assumed 100 per cent of awards subject to date of purchase.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at five per the earnings condition would vest.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are cent per annum of outstanding awards 2015: five per cent per annum.
assumed at five per cent per annum of outstanding awards 2015: three per cent per annum.
Summary of options outstanding A summary of the status of the Companies equity-settled share option plans Share Savings Plans and Share Option Plans at 31 December 2016 is presented below.
Weighted Weighted Aggregate average average intrinsic exercise remaining value price per contractual 2016 Options outstanding at 31 December 2016 Number option A$ life Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan exercise price 29 23,979 28.63 0.5 Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan exercise price A$56 64,344 A$55.62 0.5 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan exercise price 16 43 277,498 30.98 3.0 2 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan exercise price A$33 A$77 201,777 A$61.04 3.0 1 567,598 3 168 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION As at 31 December 2015 there were 1,322,786 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$2 million.
Weighted Weighted Aggregate average average intrinsic exercise remaining value price per contractual 2016 Options exercisable at 31 December 2016 Number option A$ life Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan exercise price 16 43 277,498 30.98 3.0 2 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan exercise price A$33 A$77 201,777 A$61.04 3.0 1 479,275 3 As at 31 December 2016 there were no options exercisable under .
The Management Share Plans, Performance Share Plans, Bonus Deferral Plans, Global Employee Share Plans and UK Share Plan together represent 100 per cent 2015: 99 per cent of the total IFRS 2 charge for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans in 2016.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2016 was less than US$1 million 2015: less than US$1 million.
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 34,517 Rio Tinto plc and 15,239 Rio Tinto Limited cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2016 2015: 26,576 Rio Tinto plc and 7,684 Rio Tinto Limited .
 31 December 2016 was less than US$1 million 2015: less than US$1 million.
45 Post-retirement benefits Description of plans The Group operates a number of pension and post-retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contribution and some are defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans expose the Group to a number of risks: Uncertainty in benefit payments  benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of benefits paid out.
This in turn will depend on the level of future pay increases, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection and how long individuals live.
Volatility in asset values  benefit payments.
Uncertainty in cash funding Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the Group being required to provide higher levels of cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a number of years.
In some countries control over the rate of cash funding or over the investment policy for pension assets might rest to some extent with a trustee body or other body that is not under the Groups direct control.
In addition the Group is also exposed to adverse changes in pension regulation.
For these reasons the Group has a policy of moving away from defined The Group does not usually participate in multi-employer plans in which benefit pension provision and towards defined contribution .
The defined benefit pension plans for salaried participation in such plans is immaterial and consequently no detailed employees are closed to new entrants in almost all countries.
For disclosures are provided in this note.
unionised employees, some plans remain open.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION Pension plans Switzerland and provides benefits linked to final average pay.
The Swiss plan is overseen by a Foundation Board which is responsible for ensuring The majority of the Groups defined benefit pension obligations are in that the plan complies with Swiss regulations.
Foundation Board Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone.
members are appointed by the plan sponsor, by employees and by In Canada the benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final retirees.
average pay and are closed to new entrants.
Benefits for bargaining In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final either linked to final average pay or to a flat monetary amount per year of pay, typically paid in lump sum form.
The defined benefit sections are service.
During 2015 agreement was reached with the unions to close the largest plan to new entrants.
New employees now The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, join an arrangement which is defined contribution from the Groups which are included in the figures below.
perspective, with any required additional funding being provided by Post-retirement healthcare plans employees.
The plans are subject to the regulatory requirements that apply to Canadian pension plans in the relevant provinces and territories Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide predominantly Quebec.
Pension Committees are responsible for health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is compliant with the cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Eligibility for cover relevant regulations.
The Pension Committees generally have a number is dependent upon certain age and service criteria.
These arrangements of members appointed by the sponsor and a number appointed by the are generally unfunded, and are included in the figures below.
The assets of the pension plans are invested predominantly in a The defined benefit sections of the UK arrangements are linked to final diversified range of equities, bonds and property.
Consequently, the pay and are closed to new members.
New employees are admitted to funding level of the pension plans is affected by movements in the level defined contribution sections.
The plans are subject to the regulatory of equity markets and also by movements in interest rates.
The Group requirements that apply to UK pension plans.
Trustees are responsible monitors its exposure to changes in interest rates and equity markets for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is compliant with UK and also measures its balance sheet pension risk using a value at risk regulations.
The Trustee board governing the main UK plans has a approach.
These measures are considered when deciding whether number of directors appointed by the sponsor, a number appointed by significant changes in investment strategy are required.
Asset-liability the plan participants and an independent trustee director.
 determine the optimal investment mix bearing in mind the Groups A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US tolerance for risk, the risk tolerance of the local sponsor companies and entities.
Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average the views of the pension committees and trustee boards who are legally pay and closed to new entrants, while benefits for bargaining employees responsible for the investments of the plans.
In Canada, the UK and are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically a flat monetary Switzerland the Group works with the trustees to ensure that the amount per year of service.
A Benefits Governance Committee is investment policy adopted is consistent with the Groups tolerance for responsible for ensuring that the plans are compliant with US risk.
In the US the Group has direct control over the investment policy, regulations.
Members of that Committee are appointed by the sponsor.
subject to local investment regulations.
In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and France.
The largest single plan is in The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the balance sheet date were: 2016 2015 Equities 36.8% 37.7% Quoted 32.5% 33.3% Private 4.3% 4.4% Bonds 47.9% 48.0% Government fixed income 11.3% 13.5% Government inflation-linked 12.0% 12.8% Corporate and other publicly quoted 22.3% 20.8% Private 2.3% 0.9% Property 11.0% 10.8% Quoted property funds 5.8% 6.5% Unquoted property funds 5.2% 4.3% Qualifying insurance policies 0.6% 0.6% Cash & other 3.7% 2.9% 100.0% 100.0%  These equity portfolios are well diversified in terms of the geographic specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Groups distribution and market sectors.
securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees The holdings of government bonds are generally invested in the debt of and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities the country in which a pension plan is situated.
Corporate and other within the plans is US$16 million 2015: US$23 million.
quoted bonds are usually of investment grade.
Private debt is mainly in The holdings of quoted equities are invested either in pooled funds or North America.
segregated accounts held in the name of the relevant pension funds.
com 171 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 45 Post-retirement benefits continued The quoted property funds are invested in a diversified range of investment in those asset classes is restricted to a level that does not properties.
endanger the liquidity of the pension plans.
The holdings of cash & other are predominantly cash and short-term The Group does not currently utilise derivatives to manage risk in its money market instruments.
However, fund managers may use derivatives to hedge currency movements within their portfolios and, in the case of bond Investments in private equity, private debt, and property are less liquid managers, to take positions that could be taken using direct holdings of than the other investment classes listed above and therefore the Groups bonds but more efficiently.
Maturity of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations is given in the table below: 2016 2015 2014 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Proportion relating to current employees 22% 18% 21% 22% 25% Proportion relating to former employees not yet retired 12% 2% 12% 11% 11% Proportion relating to retirees 66% 80% 67% 67% 64% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Average duration of obligations years 14.4 13.2 14.3 13.4 13.9 Geographical distribution of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the geographic distribution of the obligations is given in the table below: 2016 2015 2014 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Canada 47% 42% 46% 44% 46% UK 28% 2% 27% 29% 27% US 13% 54% 16% 15% 15% Switzerland 6% 0% 5% 6% 5% Eurozone 4% 0% 4% 4% 4% Other 2% 2% 2% 2% 3% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Total expense recognised in the income statement 2016 2015 2014 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 148 10 158 184 196 Past service income 144 66 Curtailment gains losses 1 4 5 13 1 Settlement gains 11 22 Net interest on net defined benefit liability 55 35 90 113 133 Non-investment expenses paid from the plans 22 22 21 19 Total defined benefit expense 224 41 265 150 261 Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 255 2 257 289 329 Total expense recognised in the income statement 479 43 522 439 590 The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net relate mainly to an exercise in the US in which deferred vested operating costs.
In 2016, US$nil pre-tax of curtailment and settlement participants were offered a one-time lump sum payment in place of their gains have been excluded from underlying earnings 2015: US$nil: 2014: future pension payments.
The past service income in 2015 relates to US$2 million relating to divestments.
design changes in Canada and to changes to post-retirement medical plans in the US.
The past service income during 2014 relates to design The curtailments shown in the table above relate primarily to headcount changes to post-retirement medical plans in the US.
The settlement gains in 2015 and 2014 Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 2016 2015 2014 US$m US$m US$m Actuarial losses gains 1,120 548 1,853 Return on assets net of interest on assets 1,031 79 1,127 Loss on application of asset ceiling 1 8 9 Total loss gain recognised in other comprehensive income 90 619 735 172 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION Amounts recognised in the balance sheet The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: 2016 2015 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 13,749 13,749 13,642 Present value of obligations funded 14,504 14,504 14,443 Present value of obligations unfunded 798 926 1,724 1,680 Present value of obligations total 15,302 926 16,228 16,123 Effect of asset ceiling 63 63 49 Net deficit to be shown in the balance sheet 1,616 926 2,542 2,530 Comprising: Deficits 2,241 926 3,167 3,122 Surpluses 625 625 592 Net deficits on pension plans 1,616 1,616 1,668 Unfunded post-retirement healthcare obligation 926 926 862 The surplus amounts shown above are included in the balance sheet as minimum is negotiated with the local trustee or foundation in accordance Trade and other receivables.
See note 18. with the funding guidance issued by the local regulators.
In deciding whether to provide funding above the minimum level the Group takes Deficits are shown in the balance sheet within Provisions including postinto account other possible uses of cash within the Group, the tax retirement benefits.
See note 26. situation of the local sponsoring entity and any strategic advantage that Funding policy and contributions to plans the Group might obtain by accelerating contributions.
The Group does not generally pre-fund post-retirement healthcare arrangements.
The Group reviews the funding position of its major pension plans on a regular basis and considers whether to provide funding above the minimum level required in each country.
In Canada and the US the minimum level is prescribed by legislation.
In the UK and Switzerland the 2016 2015 2014 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Contributions to defined benefit plans 408 56 464 328 353 Contributions to defined contribution plans 238 2 240 272 310 Contributions to industry-wide plans 17 17 17 19 Total 663 58 721 617 682 Contributions to defined benefit pension plans are kept under regular Movements in the net defined benefit liability review and actual contributions will be determined in line with the A summary of the movement in the net defined benefit liability is shown Groups wider financing strategy, taking into account relevant minimum in the first table below.
The subsequent tables provide a more detailed funding requirements.
As contributions to many plans are reviewed on at analysis of the movements in the present value of the obligations, the least an annual basis, the contributions for 2017 and subsequent years .
cannot be determined precisely in advance.
Most of the Groups largest The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of pension funds are fully funded on their local funding basis and do not the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who require long term funding commitments at present.
Contributions to participate in the plans and who are employed in associates and joint defined benefit plans for 2017 are estimated to be around arrangements.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses US$480 million but may be higher or lower than this depending on the may not correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect evolution of financial markets and voluntary funding decisions taken by oftheGroup.
Contributions for subsequent years are expected to be at excluded from the movements below.
Healthcare plans are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to benefit payments net of participant contributions.
The Groups contributions are expected to be similar to the amounts paid in 2016.
2016 2015 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in the net defined benefit liability Net defined benefit liability at the start of the year 1,668 862 2,530 3,733 Amounts recognised in Income 224 41 265 150 Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income 21 69 90 619 Employer contributions 408 56 464 328 Arrangements divested 8 8 25 Currency exchange rate loss gain 103 10 113 381 Net defined benefit liability at the end of the year 1,616 926 2,542 2,530 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 173 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 45 Post-retirement benefits continued 2016 2015 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in present value of obligation Present value of obligation at the start of the year 15,261 862 16,123 18,899 Current employer service costs 148 10 158 184 Past service income 144 Curtailments 14 5 13 Settlements 52 Interest on obligation 542 35 577 615 Contributions by plan participants 23 23 28 Benefits paid 911 56 967 995 Experience gain loss 165 26 139 107 Changes in financial assumptions loss gain 1,153 34 1,187 446 Changes in demographic assumptions loss 63 9 72 5 Arrangements divested 86 86 46 Currency exchange rate gain loss 725 10 715 1,805 Present value of obligation at the end of the year 15,302 926 16,228 16,123 2016 2015 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets  13,642 13,642 15,219 Settlements 41 Interest on assets 492 492 506 Contributions by plan participants 23 23 28 Contributions by employer 408 56 464 328 Benefits paid 911 56 967 995 Non-investment expenses 22 22 21 Return on plan assets net of interest on assets 1,031 1,031 79 Arrangements divested 94 94 21 Currency exchange rate loss 820 820 1,440  13,749 13,749 13,642 2016 2015 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in the effect of the asset ceiling Effect of the asset ceiling at the start of the year 49 49 53 Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling 5 5 4 Movement in the effect of the asset ceiling 1 1 8 Currency exchange rate loss gain 8 8 16 Effect of the asset ceiling at the end of the year 63 63 49 In determining the extent to which the asset ceiling has an effect, the boards and similar bodies to augment benefits or wind up a plan.
Where Group considers the funding legislation in each country and the rules such powers are unilateral, the Group does not consider a refund to be specific to each pension plan.
The calculation takes into account any available at the end of the life of a plan.
Where the plan rules and minimum funding requirements that may be applicable to the plan, legislation both permit the employer to take a refund of surplus, the whether any reduction in future Group contributions is available, and asset ceiling may have no effect, although it may be the case that a whether a refund of surplus may be available.
In considering whether any refund will only be available many years in the future.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION Main assumptions rates per annum The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below.
The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2016 was 2.2 per cent 2015: 2.0 per cent.
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are Sensitivity predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 3.9 per cent  2015: 4.1 per cent : medical trend rate: 9.1 per cent reducing to 5.1 per the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments cent by the year 2025 broadly on a straight-line basis 2015: 8.4 per and discounting those payments.
In order to estimate the sensitivity of cent, reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2023 : claims costs based on the obligations to changes in assumptions, we calculate what the individual company experience.
The difference between this figure and the For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post-retirement figure calculated using our stated assumptions is an indication of the mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity.
The sensitivity to changes in each assumption.
The results of this sensitivity mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the balance sheet analysis are summarised in the table below.
Note that this approach is date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of 26 years 2015: valid for small changes in the assumptions but will be less accurate for 26 years and that a man aged 60 in 2036 would have a weighted larger changes in the assumptions.
The sensitivity to inflation includes average expected future lifetime of 28 years 2015: 28 years.
the impact on pension increases, which are generally linked to inflation where they are granted.
2016 2015 Approximate Approximate increase decrease increase decrease in obligations in obligations Pensions Other Pensions Other Assumption Change in assumption US$m US$m US$m US$m Discount rate Increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,031 57 960 50 Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1,107 61 1,025 54 Inflation Increase of 0.5 percentage points 536 19 505 17 Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 507 17 481 14 Salary increases Increase of 0.5 percentage points 77 3 77 2 Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 75 2 75 2 Demographic allowance for Participants assumed to have the mortality rates of future improvements in longevity individuals who are one year older 481 20 435 15 Participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 481 20 435 15 Medical costs trend rates Increase of 1.0 percentage points 37 31 Decrease of 1.0 percentage points 31 26 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 175 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 46 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 2016 2015 As at 31 December A$m A$m Assets Current assets 8,041 6,034 Non-current assets 10,758 11,525 Total assets 18,799 17,559 Liabilities Current liabilities 1,268 616 Non-current liabilities 4,814 4,833 Total liabilities 6,082 5,449 Net assets 12,717 12,110 Shareholders equity Share capital 4,004 4,004 Other reserves 413 373 Retained earnings 8,300 7,733 Total equity 12,717 12,110 Profit of the parent company 4,452 6,532 Total comprehensive income of the parent company 4,452 6,532 Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited has guaranteed other external debt held by Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences Group entities which totalled A$0.1 billion at 31 December 2016 between AAS and IFRS as defined in note 1.
31 December 2015: A$0.1 billion and provided guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts which were in a liability position of Rio Tinto Limited guarantees A$1 million at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: A$18 million.
Rio Tinto Limited provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group In addition, Rio Tinto Limited has provided a guarantee of certain companies.
obligations, including contingent obligations, of Rio Tinto Finance Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Groups Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed A$14.1 billion at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: A$26.6 billion : contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
in addition these entities also jointly guarantee the Groups undrawn credit facility which was A$10.4 billion at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: A$10.3 billion.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION 47 Related undertakings The following tables outline the Groups subsidaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures as defined in Regulation 7 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
All subsidaries are included in the Group Consolidation.
%ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address 10029734 Canada Inc. : Canada CAD$1.00 Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada 1043802 Ontario Ltd: Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 66 Wellington Street West, Suite 4700, Toronto Dominion Bank Tower, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada 46106 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 200-204 Lambert Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 3T2, Canada 46117 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 200-204 Lambert Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 3T2, CAD Preferred shares 100 Canada 535630 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 c o Macdonald & Company, 200-204 Lambert CAD Preferred shares 100 Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 3T2, Canada 7999674 CANADA INC. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada 9230556 CANADA INC. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , CAD Preferred shares 100 Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada 9539549 CANADA INC. : Canada USD Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada AGM Holding Company Pte Ltd: Singapore USD Ordinary shares 100 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Alcan Alumina Ltda.
: Brazil BRL1.00 Quota shares 100 Avenida Engenheiro Emiliano Macieira, 1km 18, Pedrinhas, Sao Luis, MA, 65095-603, Brazil Alcan Asia Limited: Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Suite 2802, 28 F, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong Alcan Betriebsund  GmbH: 51.13 Ordinary shares 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany Germany Alcan Chemicals Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Alcan Composites Brasil Ltda: Brazil BRL0.01 Ordinary shares 100 Avenida das Naes Unidas, 10.989, 14th floor, Suite 141, So Paulo, 04578-000, Brazil Alcan Corporation: United States US$0.01 Ordinary shares 100 Corporation Service Company, 211 East 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin TX 78701-3218, United States Alcan Farms Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Alcan Finances USA LLC: United States US$1,000.00 Ordinary 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington shares fide 19808 Alcan Gove Development Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Alcan Gove Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD Class B shares 100 Alcan Gove Superannuation Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Alcan Holdings Australia Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Alcan Holdings Europe B. V. : Netherlands 455.00 Ordinary shares 100 Aluminiumstraat 1, 4823 AL Breda P. O.
Box 3408, 4800 DK Breda, The Netherlands Alcan Holdings Nederland B. V. : Netherlands 4,555.00 Ordinary shares 100 Aluminiumstraat 1, 4823 AL Breda P. O.
Box 3408, 4800 DK Breda, The Netherlands Alcan Holdings Switzerland AG SA Ltd. : Switzerland CHF0.01 Registered shares 100 Max Hoegger-Strasse 6, P. O.
Box 1954, CH-8048 Zrich, Switzerland Alcan International Network U. S. A. Inc. : United States USD Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 80 State Street, Albany NY 12207-2543, United States Alcan  GmbH: Germany 51.13 Ordinary shares 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany Alcan Management Services Shanghai Co. Ltd. : China US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Unit E, 40F Wheelock Square, No.
1717 West Nanjing Road, Jingan District, Shanghai, 200040, China Alcan Management Services Canada Limited Societe fide CAD Ordinary shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Services fide Gestion Alcan Canada Limitee: Canada Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Alcan Northern Territory Alumina Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Alcan Packaging Canada Limited: Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 McCarthy Tetrault LLP, c o Joanne Pierucci, Suite 5300 Toronto Dominion Bank Tower, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 177 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Alcan Packaging Mhltal Gmbh & Co. KG: Germany 51.13 Ordinary shares 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany Alcan Primary Metal Australia Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Alcan Primary Products Company LLC: United States USD Units shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Alcan Primary Products Corporation: United States US$0.01 Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 211 East 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin TX 78701-3218, United States Alcan Realty Limited Societe Immobiliere Alcan CAD Ordinary shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Limitee: Canada Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Alcan South Pacific Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Alcan Trading AG SA Ltd. : Switzerland CHF1000 Registered shares 100 Max Hoegger-Strasse 6, P. O.
Box 1852, CH-8048 Zrich, Switzerland Aluminium Dunkerque: France 16.00 Ordinary shares 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France Aluminium Pechiney: France 16.00 Ordinary shares 100 725 rue Aristide Bergs, 38341 Voreppe Cedex, France Aluminum Company of Canada Limited Aluminium du CAD Ordinary shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Canada Limitee: Canada Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada g AML Exploration Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia AML Properties Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Anglesey Aluminium Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Anglesey Aluminium Metal Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom AP Service: France 15.00 Ordinary shares 100 725 rue Aristide Bergs, 38341 Voreppe Cedex, France Argyle Diamond Mines Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Argyle Diamonds 2013 Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Argyle Diamonds Limited: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges AUD Class B shares 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Ashton Canada Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia Ashton Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Ashton Nominees Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Asia Gold Mongolia LLC: Mongolia MNT1,250.00 Common 100 Suite 201, Seoul Business ctr, Zaluuchuud Av.
26, shares 1s khoroo, Bayanzurkh district, Ulaanbaatar, 13380, Mongolia Asia Naran Bulag LLC: Mongolia MNT1,000.00 Common 100 suite 201, Seoul Business ctr.
26, shares 1s khoroo, Bayanzurkh district, Ulaanbaatar, 13380, Mongolia a Australian Coal Holdings Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Australian Coal Resources Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia a Australian Mining & Smelting Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia c Balkhash Saryshagan LLP: Kazakhstan 100 Dostyk 310 G, Almaty, 050020, Kazakhstan a g Baume Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Beasley River Management Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Beasley River Mining Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Bektau B. V. : Netherlands 200.00 Ordinary shares 75 Aluminiumstraat 1, 4823 AL Breda P. O.
Box 3408, 4800 DK Breda, The Netherlands, the Netherlands Black Hill Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Borax Espaa, S. A. : Spain 150.00 Ordinary shares 100 CN 340, Km 954, 12520 NULES, Castellon, Spain Borax Europe Limited: United Kingdom 0.25 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom 178 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Borax Francais: France 2.75 Ordinary shares 100 89 Route fide Bourbourg, 59210, Coudekerque-Branche, France Borax Malaysia Sdn Bhd: Malaysia MYR1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Borax Rotterdam N. V. : Netherlands 453.78 Ordinary shares 100 Welplaatweg 104, 3197KS, ROTTERDAM BOTLEK, Netherlands British Alcan Aluminium Plc: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom a Canning Resources Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Capricorn Diamonds Investments Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia CarolLakeCompanyLtd.
:Canada CAD$100.00 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Ordinary shares Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Catherine Hill Bay Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Cathjoh Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Champlain Reinsurance Company Ltd. : Switzerland CHF1.23 Registered shares 100 Max Hoegger-Strasse 6, P. O.
Box 1852, CH-8048 Zrich, Switzerland g Channar Finance Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia g Channar Financial Services Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia g Channar Investment Nominee Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Channar Management Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Channar Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia g Channar Security Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Chlor Alkali Unit Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 Ordinary 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial SGD shares Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary 68.4 USD shares CIA.
Inmobiliaria e Inversiones Cosmos S. A. C. : Peru PEN1,000.00 Ordinary 100 Av.
Miraflores shares MIRAFLORES LIMA, Peru CNA Bengalla Investments Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia CNA Investments UK Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia CNA Resources Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia CNA Resources Limited: Australia AUD A Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD B Ordinary shares 100 CNA Sub Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia g CNA UK Limited: United Kingdom US$0.01 Ordinary 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, bearer shares 100 United Kingdom CNA Warkworth Australasia Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia CNA Warkworth Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Coal & Allied Industries Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Coal & Allied Mining Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Coal & Allied Operations Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Compagnie Gnrale Dlectrolyse Du Palais: France 0.94 Ordinary shares 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France Compania fide Transmision Sierraoriente S. A. C. : Peru PEN1,000.00 100 Av.
Miraflores Ordinary shares MIRAFLORES LIMA, Peru Corporation fide Pche Ste-Marguerite Inc. : Canada CAD$10.00 Ordinary shares 96.8 400-1190 Avenue des , Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CRA Exploration India Private Limited: India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 99.9 Apartment No.
100 A 5, Ground Floor, The Capital Court, Olof Palme Marg, Munirka, NEW DELHI 110067, India CRA Investments Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia a CRA Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 179 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Dampier Salt Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary $1.00257 68.4 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia AUD Ordinary $1.88 on 68.4 31 01 2013 shares g Darex Capital, Inc. : Panama US$0.01 Par value one cent 100 Plaza Bancomer Building, 50th Street Apartedo shares 6307, Panama 5, Panama Daybreak Development LLC: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 c Daybreak Property Holdings LLC: United States CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 84101, United States Daybreak Secondary Water Distribution Company: US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington United States fide 19808 Daybreak Water Holding LLC: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 DB Medical I LLC: United States USD Units shares 100 CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 84101, United States c DBVC1 LLC: United States CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 84101, United States Diavik Diamond Mines 2012 Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 300-5201 50th Avenue, PO Box 2498, Yellowknife NT X1A 2P8, Canada Dolphin Properties Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia a East Kalimantan Coal Pte.
Ltd: Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Eastland Management Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 a Electric Power Generation Limited: New Zealand NZD1 Ordinary shares 100 Level 6, 109 Featherston Street, Wellington, 6011, New Zealand g Emirates Energy Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Energy Resources of Australia Ltd: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 68.4 C - Mallesons Stephen Jacques, 60 Marcus Clarke Street, Canberra ACT, Australia a Falcon Insurance Ltd: Malta US$1.00 Class A ordinary 100 No 7, 4th Floor, Block C, Skyway Offices, 179 shares Marina Street, Pieta, PTA 9042, Malta US$1.00 Class B shares 100 Flambeau Mining Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 a Fundsprops Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Gladstone Infrastructure Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Class G Redeemable 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Preference shares AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 Gove Aluminium Ltd: Australia AUD A Non redeemable 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia preference shares AUD A Redeemable 100 preference shares 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia GPS Energy Pty Limited: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia GPS Nominee Pty Limited: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia GPS Power Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Gulf Power Company La Compagnie Gulf Power: CAD$100.00 Ordinary 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Canada shares Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada g Gumala Advisory Company Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 51 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Gwandalan Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Hail Creek Coal Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Hail Creek Marketing Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 82 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Hamersley Associated Investments Pty Limited: AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges g Australia Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Hamersley Exploration Pty Limited: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia 180 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Hamersley HMS Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia a Hamersley Holdings Limited: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia a Hamersley Iron Yandi Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges AUD Class C shares 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Hamersley Resources Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges AUD Z Class ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Hamersley WA Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Henlopen Manufacturing Co. Inc. : United States US$100.00 Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 80 State Street, Albany NY 12207-2543, United States Heruga Exploration LLC: Mongolia MNT12,500.00 Common 100 suite 201, Seoul Business ctr, Zaluuchuud shares av.
26,1st khoroo, Ulaanbaatar, Bayanzurkh district, 13380, Mongolia High Purity Iron Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 a g HImet Corporation Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia g HIsmelt Operations Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia HIsmelt Corporation Pty Limited: Australia AUD A Class shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Hope Downs Marketing Company Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Howmet Insurance Company, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 159 State Street, Montpelier VT 05602 Hunter Valley Resources Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD B Class shares 100 HV Operations Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia HVO Coal Sales Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia :Singapore USDOrdinaryshares 100 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore IEA Coal Research Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Park House, 14 Northfields, London, SW18 1DD, United Kingdom IEA Environmental Projects Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Park House, 14 Northfields, London, SW18 1DD, United Kingdom IGP Holding Company Ltd: Virgin Islands, British USD Ordinary shares 100 Midocean Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, Virgin Islands, British Industrias Metalicas Castello S. A. : Spain 6.01 Ordinary shares 100 Calle Tuset 10, 08006, Barcelona, Catalogna, Spain Integrity Land and Cattle LLC: United States USD Units shares 100 CSC, 2338 W. Royal Palm Road, Suite J, Phoenix AZ 85021 Iron Ore Company of Canada: United States US$1,000.00 Series A 91.4 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington shares Delaware 19808 US$1,000.00 Series E 100 shares US$1,000.00 Series F 100 shares g Itallumina Srl: Italy 1.00 Quotas shares 100 Viale Castro Pretorio 122, 00185, Roma, Italy Johcath Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Juna Station Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Kalamah Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Kalimantan Gold Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 181 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address a Kalteng Pty.
Ltd: Australia AUD A Class ordinary shares 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia AUD1.00 Class B Fully paid 100 $1.00 13 01 2003 AUD1.00 Class B Paid to 100 $0.12 02 09 2005 AUD Ordinary shares 100 c Kelian Investment Limited: Virgin Islands, British Woodbourne Hall, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands Kelian Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Kembla Coal & Coke Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Kennecott Barneys Canyon Mining Company: United US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington States fide 19808 Kennecott Exploration Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kennecott Exploration Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. : Mexico MXN1,000.00 Ordinary 100 FelixBerenguer1254, Col. LomasVirreyes, shares Distrito Federal, 11000, Mexico Kennecott Holdings Corporation: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kennecott Land Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kennecott Land Investment Company LLC: United CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington c States fide 19808 Kennecott Molybdenum Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kennecott Nevada Copper Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kennecott Ridgeway Mining Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kennecott Royalty Company: United States US$100.00 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kennecott Services Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kennecott Uranium Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kennecott Utah Copper LLC: United States USD Units shares 100 CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 84101, United States Kennecott Water Distribution LLC: United States USD Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Kestrel Coal Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Kestrel Coal Sales Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia c Kirganik LLC: Russian Federation 2, 23 Liniya, Vasilievsky Ostrov, 199106, St. Petersburg, Russian Federation c Korgantas LLP: Kazakhstan Dostyk 310 G, Almaty, 050020, Kazakhstan a Kutaibar Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Lao Sanxai Minerals Company Limited: Lao Peoples US$1.00 Ordinary shares 70 5th Floor, ANZ Bank Building, 33 Lane Xang Democratic Republic Avenue, Hatsady Village, Chanthaboury District, Vientiane Capital, Lao Peoples Democratic Republic Lawson Mardon Flexible Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Lawson Mardon Smith Brothers Ltd. : United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom c Lazurnoe LLC: Russian Federation 2, 23 Liniya, Vasilievsky Ostrov, 199106, St. Petersburg, Russian Federation Lower Hunter Land Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Magma Arizona Railroad Company: United States US$100.00 Common shares 99.9 CSC, 2338 W. Royal Palm Road, Suite J, Phoenix AZ 85021 g Malmikaivos Oy: Finland 168.19 Ordinary shares 100 Raivantie 31, Perttula, 01860, Finland Metallwerke Refonda AG: Switzerland CHF125 Bearer shares 100 Am Bahnhof, CH-8172, Niederglatt, Switzerland Metals & Minerals Insurance Pte.
Limited: Singapore SGD Redeemable 100 2 Shenton Way, #2601, SGX Centre 1, preference shares Singapore 068804, Singapore SGD Ordinary shares 100 Miller Pohang Coal Co Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 182 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address MineraKennecott, S. A. deC. V. :Mexico MXN1SeriesBshares 100 Florencia57, Piso3, Col. Juarez, Delegacion Cuauhtemoc, Mexico, D. F. 06600, Mexico Minmi Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Mitchell Plateau Bauxite Co. Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Mount Bruce Mining Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Mount Pleasant Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Mount Thorley Coal Loading Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 58.3 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Mount Thorley Operations Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Movele: Luxembourg USD Ordinary shares 100 22 rue Jean-Pierre Brasseur, L-1258, Luxembourg USD Preference shares 100 Mutamba Mineral Sands S. A. : Mozambique MZN100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Avenida 24 fide Julho, no.
3412, Bairro da Polana Cimento, Maputo City, Mozambique Namoi Valley Coal Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 NBH Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia c Nhulunbuy Corporation Limited: Australia Endeavour Square, Nhulunbuy, Northern Territory 0880, Australia Nords Wharf Land Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Norgold Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia North Gold W. A. Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges AUD Redeemable 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia preference shares North Insurances Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia North IOC Bermuda Holdings Limited: Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 11, Bermuda North IOC Bermuda Limited: Bermuda US$143.64 Class A ordinary 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM shares US$143.64126903 11, Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 US$100,000.00 Preferred shares 100 North IOC Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia North Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia North Mining Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 AUD Redeemable 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges preference shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Northern Rhondda Collieries Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Novacoal Australia Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Nozalela Mineral Sands Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa Oaklands Coal Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia c Olkhovoe LLC: Russian Federation 2, 23 Liniya, Vasilievsky Ostrov, 199106, St. Petersburg, Russian Federation Orian Holding Corp: Virgin Islands, British USD Common shares 100 Midocean Cambers-Management and Trust Services BVI Limited, PO Box 805, Pelican Drive, RoadTown, Tortola, VG110, VirginIslands, British Oyu Tolgoi LLC: Mongolia MNT10,000.00 Common 66 Level 12 Monnis Tower, Chinggis Avenue-15, 1st shares khoroo, Sukhbaatar District, Ulaanbaatar, 14240, Mongolia Oyu Tolgoi Netherlands BV: Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Prins Bernhardplein 200, Amsterdam, 1097 JB, The Netherlands Pacific Aluminium New Zealand Limited: New Zealand NZD1 Ordinary shares 100 Level 6, 109 Featherston Street, Wellington, 6011, New Zealand Pacific Aluminium Bell Bay Sales Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia a Pacific Aluminium Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Pacific Aluminium Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 183 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Pacific Coast Mines, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Pechiney Aviatube Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Pechiney Btiment: France 15.00 Ordinary shares 100 725 rue Aristide Bergs, 38341 Voreppe Cedex, France Pechiney Bcancour, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Pechiney Cast Plate, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Pechiney Consolidated Australia Pty Limited: Australia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia g Pechiney Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi: Turkey TRY25.00 Ordinary shares 100 Karakoy Haci Mimi Mah.
10 Kat 4, Beyoglu, Istanbul, Turkey Pechiney Holdings, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 c Pechiney Metals LLC : United States CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Pechiney Philippines Inc. : Philippines PHP10.00 Ordinary shares 99.9 Room 306, ITC Building, 337 Sen Gil Puyat Avenue, Markati, Metro Manila, Philippines Pechiney Plastic Packaging, Inc. : United States USD Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Pechiney Sales Corporation: United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Pechiney Vnzuela, S. A. : Venezuela, Bolivarian VEB1,000.00 A shares 100 Avenida Libertador, Multicentro Empresarial del g Republic of VEB10,000.00 B shares 100 Estede, Edificio Miranda, Nucleo A, Piso 14, Oficina 146A, Caracas, Venezuela Peko Exploration Pty Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia Peko-Wallsend Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Pilbara Iron Company Services Pty Ltd : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Port dEhoala S. A. : Madagascar US$100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Immeuble ASSIST, Ivandry, Lot N35, 5me tage, 101 Antananarivo, Antananarivo, Madagascar a Project Generation Group Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia PSZ Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia PT Alcan Packaging Flexipack: Indonesia IDR1,000,000.00 Ordinary 100 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung shares Gde Agung Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia PT Hutan Lindung Kelian Lestari: Indonesia IDR9,803.00 Ordinary 99 Kelian Mine Site, West Kutai, East Kalimantan, shares Indonesia PT Kelian Equatorial Mining: Indonesia IDR1,080.00 Ordinary shares 90 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia PT Mitra Sumbawa Minerals: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 90 15th Floor, Menara Anugrah, Kantor Taman E3.3, Jalan DR. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 8.6-8.7, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia PT Rikit Alas Minerals: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 90 15th Floor, Menara Anugrah, Kantor Taman E3.3, Jalan DR. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 8.6-8.7, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia g PT Rio Tinto Consultants: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia g PT Rio Tinto Exploration: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 15th Floor, Menara Anugrah, Kantor Taman E3.3, Jalan DR. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 8.6-8.7, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia PT Rio Tinto Indonesia: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia 184 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address g PT Rio Tinto Irja: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinay shares 100 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia QIT Madagascar Minerals Ltd: Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinay shares 100 Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda QIT Madagascar Minerals SA: Madagascar US$10.00 Certicats Immeuble ASSIST, Ivandry, Lot N35, 5me tage, dinvestissemant 100 101 Antananarivo, Antananarivo, Madagascar US$10.00 Common shares 80 Quebec North Shore and Labrador Railway Company CAD$27.59 Ordinary shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Compagnie fide Chemin fide Fer du Littoral Nord fide Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Quebec et du Labrador Inc. Canada Queensland Coal Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia g Qumica e Metalrgica Mequital Ltda.
: Brazil BRL Ordinary shares 100 Av.
das Nacoes Unida, 12551 19o, andar, CJ 1911, 04578-000, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil R. W. Miller Holdings Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ranges Management Company Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Ranges Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Resolution Copper Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 c Resolution Copper Mining LLC: United States CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR0.01 B Ordinary shares 99.9 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, ZAR1 A Ordinary shares 100 South Africa Richards Bay Mining Holdings Proprietary Limited: ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa ZAR1.00 B Ordinary shares 100 South Africa Richards Bay Prefco Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR0.01 Preference shares 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR0.01 Prefence shares 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, shares South Africa Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited: ZAR0.01 B Preference 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa shares South Africa ZAR0.01 BHP Billiton 100 Preference shares ZAR0.01 B Ordinary shares 100 Richards Bay Titanium Holdings Proprietary Limited: ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa ZAR1.00 B Ordinary shares 100 South Africa :Brazil BRLQuotashares 100 , S N. Centro, Municipio fide Jaguaquara, Estado da Bahia, CEP45345-000, Brazil c Rio Sava Exploration DOO: Serbia Takovska 45, Belgrade, 11000, Serbia, Republic of a Rio Tinto Commercial Paper Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Hong Kong Ltd: Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Suite 2802, 28 F, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong g Rio Tinto Mauritius Pty Limited: Mauritius US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6th Floor, Tower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius Rio Tinto Advisory Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Alcan Fund Inc. : Canada CAD Ordinary shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Alcan International Ltd. Rio Tinto Alcan CAD Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , International Ltee: Canada Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Alcan Middle East DMCC: United AED1,000 Ordinary shares 100 Gold Tower, Jlt Cluster I, 8th Floor, Unit E, Dubai, Arab Emirates PO BOX 340801, United Arab Emirates Rio Tinto Alcan Technology Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia c Rio Tinto Almazpoisk LLC: Russian Federation 3, Aleksandra Lukyanova, 105066, Moscow, Russian Federation Rio Tinto Aluminium Bell Bay Limited: Australia AUD 7.5% Cumulative 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, preference shares Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 185 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Rio Tinto Aluminium Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Rio Tinto America Holdings Inc. : United States US$0.01 Class A common 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington shares fide 19808 US$100.00 Series A 100 preferred stock Rio Tinto America Inc. : United States US$100.00 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Rio Tinto Asia Ltd: Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 Suite 2802, 28 F, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong a Rio Tinto Asia Pty.
: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, AUD Ordinary shares 100 Australia Rio Tinto AuM Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Rio Tinto Australian Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom Rio Tinto Bahia Holdings Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom a Rio Tinto Base Metals Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Brazilian Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom Rio Tinto Brazilian Investments Limited: United 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom Rio Tinto Canada Diamond Operation Management Inc. : CAD Common shares 100 300-5201 50th Avenue, PO Box 2498, Yellowknife Canada NT X1A 2P8, Canada Rio Tinto Canada Inc: Canada CAD Class B shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , CAD Class C shares 100 Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD Class D shares 100 CAD Class J Shares 100 Class K Shares 100 Rio Tinto Canada Management Inc. Rio Tinto Gestion CAD Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Canada Inc. : Canada CAD Preferred shares 100 Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation: Canada CAD Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Coal Clermont Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Rio Tinto Coal NSW Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Rio Tinto Coal Australia Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Rio Tinto Coal Investments Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia a Rio Tinto Coal NSW Holdings Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Rio Tinto Desenvolvimentos Minerais LTDA.
: Brazil BRL Quotas shares 100 SIG Quadra 04, Lote 175, Torre A, Salas 106 a 109, Edificio Capital Financial Center, Brasilia, CEP 70610-440, Brazil Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Canada Holding Inc. : CAD Class A dividend 100 300-5201 50th Avenue, PO Box 2498, Yellowknife Canada rights NT X1A 2P8, Canada CAD Class B shares 100 CAD Class C voting rights 100 shares CAD Class P1 preferred 100 shares Rio Tinto Diamonds Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Diamonds Netherlands B. V. : Netherlands 500.00 Ordinary shares 100 Aluminiumstraat 1, 4823AL Breda, Postbus 3408, 4800DK, Breda, Netherlands Rio Tinto Diamonds NV: Belgium EUR Ordinary shares 100 Hoveniersstraat 53, 2018 Antwerp, Belgium Rio Tinto Eastern Investments B. V. : Netherlands 453.78 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Energy America Inc. : United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Rio Tinto Energy Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Escondida Limited: Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 22 Canons Court, Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda b Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom 186 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Rio Tinto Exploration Asia Holdings Pte.
Ltd. : US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Singapore Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Exploration PNG Limited: Papua New PGK1.00 Ordinary shares 100 c o BDO Accountants, Section 15, Lot 15, Bernal a Guinea Street, National Capital District, Papua New Guinea Rio Tinto Exploration and Mining India Private Limited: INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 21st Floor, DLF Building No.
5, Tower A, DLF Cyber India City, Phase III, Gurgaon, Haryana, 122002, India Rio Tinto Exploration Canada Inc. : Canada CAD Class A shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , CAD Class B shares 100 Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD Class C shares 100 CAD Class D shares 100 CAD Class E preferred 100 shares g Rio Tinto Exploration Gabon SA: Gabon XAF10,000 Ordinary shares 100 C O NEW ACE Baker Tilly, Quartier Louis Quaben, Libreville, B. P:3981, Gabon Rio Tinto Exploration India Private Limited: India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Apartment No.
100 A 5, Ground Floor, The Capital Court, Olof Palme Marg, Munirka, NEW DELHI 110067, India c Rio Tinto Exploration Kazakhstan LLP: Kazakhstan Dostyk 310 G, Almaty, Kazakhstan, 050020, Kazakhstan a Rio Tinto Exploration Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia AUD Class C shares 100 AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Exploration Zambia Limited: Zambia ZMW1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Plot 3827, Parliament Road, Olympia, Lusaka, Zambia Rio Tinto Fer et Titane inc. : Canada CAD Class B preference 100 1625 Route Marie-Victorin, Sorel-Tracy QC J3R shares 1M6, Canada CAD Common shares 100 CAD$0.01 Preferred shares 100 Rio Tinto FH Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Finance USA plc: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Finance Canada Inc.
Finances Rio Tinto CAD Ordinary shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Canada Inc. : Canada Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada a Rio Tinto Finance Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Finance plc: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom Rio Tinto France S. A. S. : France 15.25 Ordinary shares 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France Rio Tinto Global Employment Company Pte.
Ltd. : US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Singapore Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Guine S. A. : Guinea GNF100,000.00 Ordinary 100 Route fide la Corniche Nord, Cit MinistrielleRue shares DI 256 Quartier Landrah, Commune fide Dixinn BP99, Conakry, Guinea Rio Tinto Holdings LLC: Mongolia MNT20,000.00 Ordinary 100 Suite No 201, Seoul Business Centre, Zaluuchuud shares Avenue 26, BZD-1, Ulaanbaatar, 13380, Mongolia Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy Australia Pty Limited: AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Australia c Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy LLC: United States CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Rio Tinto Iceland Ltd. : Iceland ISK1.00 Registered shares 100 P. O.
Box 244, IS-222, Hafnarfjrdur, Iceland Rio Tinto India Private Limited: India INR10.00 Ordinary shares 100 Apartment No.
100 A 5, Ground Floor, The Capital Court, Olof Palme Marg, Munirka, NEW DELHI 110067, India Rio Tinto Indonesian Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited: United 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United b Kingdom Kingdom Rio Tinto International Trading Shanghai Co Ltd: US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Room 1615-3, No.
1 Jilong Road, China Shanghai g China Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 200031, China 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 187 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Rio Tinto Investments One Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Rio Tinto Investments Two Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Suzhou Co. Ltd: China US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 418 Nanshi Street, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, 215021, China c Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium GmbH: Germany Mergenthalerallee 77, D-65760, Eschborn, Frankfurt am Main, Germany c Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Holdings GmbH: Germany Mergenthalerallee 77, D-65760, Eschborn, Frankfurt am Main, Germany Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Canada Inc. Rio Tinto Fer et CAD Common shares 100 1625 Route Marie-Victorin, Sorel-Tracy QC J3R Titane Canada Inc. : Canada 1M6, Canada Rio Tinto Iron Ore Asia Pte Ltd: Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Iron Ore Atlantic Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Iron Ore Europe S. A. S. : France 100.00 Ordinary shares 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France Rio Tinto Iron Ore Trading China Limited: United US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Kingdom Rio Tinto Japan Ltd: Japan JPY500 Ordinary shares 100 8th Floor, Kojimachi Diamond Building, 1 Kojimachi 4-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-0083, Japan Rio Tinto Jersey Holdings 2010 Limited: Jersey USD Ordinary shares 100 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Rio Tinto Korea Ltd: Korea, Republic of KRW10,000.00 Ordinary 100 2nd Floor, JS Tower, 6 Teheran-ro 79-gil, shares Gangnam-Gu, Seoul, 135-877, Korea, Republic of a Rio Tinto Logistic Services Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto London Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Management Services South Africa ZAR2.00 Ordinary shares 1 Harries Road, Illovo, Sandton, 2196, Sandton, Proprietary Ltd: South Africa South Africa, 2196, South Africa Rio Tinto Marketing Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore SGD$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Marketing Services Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Medical Plan Trustees Limited: United 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Kingdom Rio Tinto Metals Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United US$1.00 Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Minera Peru Limitada SAC: Peru PEN100.00 Ordinary shares 100 Av.
La Paz 1049, Oficina 501, Lima 18, Peru Rio Tinto Mineracao do Brasil Ltda: Brazil BRL1 Quotas shares 100 SIG Quadra 04, Lote 175, Torre A, Salas 106 a 109, Edificio Capital Financial Center, Brasilia, Brasilia, CEP 70610-440, Brazil Rio Tinto Minerals Asia Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Minerals Development Limited: United 0.25 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Kingdom Rio Tinto Minerals Inc. : United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 84101, United States Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Limited: United 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration S. A. C. : Peru PEN0.5 Ordinary shares 100 Calle General Borgono N 1034, Miraflores, Lima 18, Peru Rio Tinto Namibian Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Nickel Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Rio Tinto Nominees Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Orissa Mining Private Ltd: India INR100.00 Ordinary shares 51 N-3 356, IRC Village, Nayapalli, Bhubaneswar, Orissa, 751015, India 188 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Rio Tinto OT Management Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Overseas Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom Rio Tinto Pension Investments Limited: United 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United b Kingdom Kingdom Rio Tinto Peru Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Potash Management Inc. Rio Tinto Potasse CAD Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Management Inc. : Canada Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Procurement Singapore Pte Ltd: Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial SGD$1.00 Preference 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore shares Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Management Inc. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings General CAD Common shares 100 McCarthy Tetrault LLP, Suite 5300, TD Bank Tower Partner Inc. : Canada 66 Wellington Street West, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings Limited McCarthy Tetrault LLP, Suite 5300, TD Bank Tower c Partnership: Canada 66 Wellington Street West, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada Rio Tinto Services Inc. : United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 a Rio Tinto Services Limited: Australia AUD Class Z shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, AUD Ordinary shares 100 Australia Rio Tinto Shared Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Shipping Asia Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore a Rio Tinto Shipping Pty.
: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Simfer UK Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial USD Ordinary shares 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Sohar Logistics LLC: Oman OMR1.00 Ordinary shares 70 P. O.
Box 686, Ruwi, 112, Oman Rio Tinto South East Asia Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom a Rio Tinto Staff Fund Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Sulawesi Holdings Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Technological Resources Inc. : United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Rio Tinto Technological Resources UK Limited: United US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Kingdom Rio Tinto Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd. : China US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 41 F Wheelock Square, No.
1717 West Nanjing Road, Jing an District, Shanghai, 200040, China Rio Tinto Uranium Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Uranium Services Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Vostok Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Rio Tinto Western Holdings Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom Riversdale Anthracite Colliery Proprietary Ltd: South ZAR2.00 Ordinary shares 74 Ground Floor Cypress Place North, Woodmead Africa Business Park, 140-142 Western Service Road, Woodmead, 2151, South Africa Riversdale Connections Proprietary Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Ground Floor Cypress Place North, Woodmead Business Park140 142 Western Service Road, Woodmead, 2191, South Africa 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 189 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Robe River Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Robe River Mining Co. Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Class A shares 40 Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges AUD Class B shares 76.4 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Rocklea Station Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Rssing Uranium Limited: Namibia NAD1 B Shares shares 71.2 360 Sam Nujoma Drive, Klein Windhoek, NAD0.1 C Shares 70.6 Windhoek, Namibia RTA AAL Australia Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Boyne Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Holdco 1 Limited: United Kingdom USD Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom RTA Holdco 4 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United US$0.73 Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom RTA Holdco 7 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United USD Class A preference 100 Kingdom shares RTA Holdco 8 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United USD Class A preference 100 Kingdom shares RTA Holdco Australia 1 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Holdco Australia 3 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Holdco Australia 5 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Holdco Australia 6 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Pacific Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Sales Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD Class B shares 100 RTA Smelter Development Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Weipa Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Yarwun Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTAlcan 1 LLC: United States USD Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington USD Class A preferred 100 fide 19808 shares RTAlcan 2 LLC: United States USD Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 RTAlcan 3 LLC: United States USD Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 a RTLDS Aus Pty.
Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia RTLDS UK Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom RTMDC LLC: Mongolia MNT1,240.00 Common 100 7 floor, Seoul Business Centre, Zaluuchuud avenue shares 26, 1st khoroo, Bayanzurkh district, Ulaanbaatar, 13381, Mongolia RTPDS Aus Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Saryarka B. V. : Netherlands 200.00 Ordinary shares 75 Aluminiumstraat 1, 4823AL Breda, Postbus 3408, 4800DK, Breda, Netherlands Savoie Services Y. K. : Japan JPY50,000 Ordinary shares 100 Harumi, 3 Nagahama-cho, Ozu-city, Ehime-ken, 799-3412, Japan Scheuch Unterstuetzungskasse GmbH: Germany 51.13 Ordinary shares 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany SGLS LLC: Mongolia Suite 201, Seoul Business ctr.
Zaluuchuud ave. - 26,1st khoroo, Bayanzurch District, Ulaanbaatar, MNT10,000 Common shares 100 13380, Mongolia Simfer Jersey Finance 1 Ltd: Jersey USD Ordinary shares 100 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Simfer Jersey Finance 2 Ltd: Jersey USD Ordinary shares 53 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Simfer Jersey Limited: Jersey USD Ordinary shares 53 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Simfer Jersey Nominee Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom SIMFER S. A. : Guinea GNF100,000 Ordinary 80.7 , shares Commune fide Matam, BP 848, Conakry, BP 848, Guinea 190 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Singapore Metals Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore USD Ordinary shares 100 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Skeleton Coast Diamonds Limited: Namibia NAD2.00 Ordinary shares 100 360 Sam Nujoma Drive, Klein Windhoek, Windhoek, Namibia Skymont Corporation: United States USD Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Socit fide Financement Des Risques Industriels: EUR Ordinary shares 100 534, rue fide Neudorf, B. P. 593, Luxembourg, Luxembourg L-2015, Luxembourg Socit Dentreprises, Carrires Et Mines fide LEsterel: 9.33 Ordinary shares 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, France Courbevoie, France Socit Gnrale fide Recherches et dexploitations 0.22 Ordinary shares 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, Minires: France Courbevoie, France Socit Immobilire Alpes Provence: France 15.00 Ordinary shares 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France Socit Minire Et fide Participations Guine-Alusuisse: Tougue, Guinea c Guinea Sohio Western Mining Company: United States US$100.00 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Southern Copper Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, AUD B shares 100 Australia AUD$0.01 Non cumulative 100 redeemable preference shares AUD Ordinary shares 100 :Cyprus US$10.00ClassAordinary 100 Lampousas, 1, 1095 Nicosia, Cyprus shares c Swift Current Land & Cattle LLC: United States - CSC, 2338 W. Royal Palm Road, Suite J, Phoenix AZ 85021 Swiss Aluminium Australia Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD$1,000.00 Stock unit 100 shares A AUD$999.00 Stock unit 100 shares B AUD$997.00 Stock unit 100 shares C TBAC Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom a Technological Resources Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, AUD B Ordinary shares 100 Australia a The Barrier Corporation Vic.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia The Kelian Community and Forest Protection Trust: 10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, c Singapore 049315, Singapore The Pyrites Company, Inc. : United States US$1.00 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 The Roberval and Saguenay Railway Company La CAD$100.00 Ordinary 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Compagnie du Chemin fide Fer Roberval Saguenay: shares Montreal Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Canada CAD$100.00 Preference 100 shares 6% non-cumulative The Zinc Corporation Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, AUD Z Class ordinary 100 Australia shares Thos.
W. Ward Limited: United Kingdom 0.25 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom THR Aruba Holdings LLC A. V. V. : Aruba US$1.00 Common shares 100 IMC International Management Trust Company N. V. L. G. SmithBlvd.
62, MiramarBuilding, Oranjestad, Aruba c THR Delaware Holdings, LLC: United States National Corporate Research, Ltd. 850 New Burton Road, Suite 201, Dover fide 19904, United States THR Kharmagtai Pte Ltd. : Singapore USD Ordinary shares 100 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 191 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued %ofshare class held by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address THR MINES BC LTD. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 354-200 Granville Street, Vancouver BC V6C USD Common shares 100 1S4, Canada THR Mines Services Co. Ltd. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 Lackowicz Shier & Hoffman Barristers & Solicitors, 300-204 Black Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 2M9, Canada THR Mongolia Development Inc. : Virgin Islands, US$1.00 Common shares 100 Midocean Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, Virgin g British Islands, British THR OYU TOLGOI LTD. : Virgin Islands, British US$1.00 Common shares 100 Midocean Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, Virgin Islands, British THR Ulaan Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore USD Ordinary shares 100 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Three Crowns Insurance Company Limited: Bermuda 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda Tinto Holdings Australia Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, AUD Ordinary shares 100 Australia Tisand Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100 Administration Block, The Farm, RBM No.
OF KWAZULU-NATAL, POB 401 ZAR1,000.00 Cumulative 100 Richards Bay, 3900, South Africa preference shares shares Trans Territory Pipeline Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Turquoise Hill Netherlands Cooperatief USD COOP shares 100 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB Amsterdam, U.
A. : Netherlands The Netherlands Turquoise Hill Resources Limited Luxembourg 11-13, boulevard Grand-Duchesse, Charlotte, c Branch: Luxembourg L-1331, Luxembourg Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. : Canada CAD Common shares 50.8 300-204 Black Street, Whitehorse Yukon Territories Y1A 2M9, Canada g Turquoise Hill Resources Philippines Inc. : Philippines PHP100.00 Common shares 99.9 Romulo Mabanta Buenaventura Sayoc & fide Los Angeles, 21st Floor, Philamlife Tower, 8767 Paswo fide Roxas, Makati City, 1226, Philippines Turquoise Hill Resources Singapore Pte Ltd. : Singapore SGD1.00 Common shares 100 1A International Business Park, 609933, Singapore U. S. Borax Inc. : United States US$0.10 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Union Gnrale Industrielle Africaine: Morocco MAD100.00 Ordinary shares 100 52 bld Zerktouni 1er tage Appartement N3, , Maroc, Morocco a Victoria Technology Inc. : United States US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 a g Vostin Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Warkworth Coal Sales Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Warkworth Mining Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Warkworth Pastoral Co Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Warkworth Tailings Treatment Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 55.5 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Waste Solutions and Recycling LLC: United States USD Units shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 c West Kutai Foundation Limited: Singapore 10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, 049315, Singapore a Wimmera Industrial Minerals Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Winchester South Development Company Proprietary AUD Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Limited: Australia Wyoming Coal Resources Company: United States US$0.01 Common shares 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808 Zululand Titanium Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa 192 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION %ofshare class held Associated undertakings equity accounted by Group Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Share class companies Registered office address Alufluor AB: Sweden SEK1,000.00 Ordinary 50 Industrigatan 70, Box 902, S-25109, Helsingborg, shares Sweden Blair Athol Coal Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 71.2 123 Albert Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia BoyneSmeltersLimited:Australia AUDA1Classshares 100 500 Queen Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD A2 Class shares 100 AUD B1 Class shares 100 e CanPacific Potash Inc. : Canada c o McKercher LLP, 374 Third Avenue South, Saskatoon SK S7K1M5, Canada g Chinalco Rio Tinto Exploration Co. Ltd: China CNY1.00 Capital 49 Unit 402, China Resources Building, No.
8 Contribution Ordinary Jianguomenbei Avenue, Dong Cheng District, shares Beijing, 100005 P. R. China Empresa fide Mineracao Finesa Ltda.
: Brazil BRL Quotas shares 49 SIA, Trecho 2, Lotes 710 720, Brasilia DF, Brazil Enarotali Gold Project Limited: Jersey 0.001 Ordinary shares 25 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 5UT, JERSEY, Jersey Fabrica fide Plasticos Mycsa, S. A. : Venezuela, Bolivarian VEF1.00 Common shares 49 Urbanizacin Industrial San Ignacio, parcela 2-A, g Republic of va San Pedro, Los Teques, Estado Miranda, Venezuela Global Hubco BV : Netherlands 1.00 Ordinary shares 33.3 c o TMF Netherlands B. V. Luna Arena, Herikerbergweg 238, 1101, CM Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands Halco Mining Inc. : United States US$100.00 Ordinary shares 45 The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc. 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Willmington fide 19808, United States e Hydrogen Energy International LLC: United States 1209OrangeStreet, Wilmington, NewCastle, Delaware, U. S. A. Leichhardt Coal Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 44.7 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia e Minera Escondida Ltda: Chile Av.
CerroPlomo, Piso18, LasCondes, Santiago, 7580154, Chile Mineracao Tabuleiro Ltda: Brazil BRL Quotas shares 48 SIA, Trecho 2, Lotes 690 720, Brasilia DF, Brazil Northern Land Company Ltd: Canada CAD1.00 Ordinary shares 50 235 Water Street, Ste 1000 Scotia Ctr, St-Johns Newfoundland A1C 1B6 Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 30 Curlew Street, KOORAGANG NSW 2304, Australia Procivis Savoie: France 19.00 Ordinary shares 22.1 116 Quai Charles Roissard, 73000, Chambry, France Rightship Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 33.3 Level 20, 500 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. : Oman OMR1.00 Ordinary shares 20 Sohar Industrial Estate, P. O.
Box 80, PC 327, Sohar, Sultanate of Oman Twin Falls Power Corporation Ltd: Canada CAD Class B shares 74.4 Hydro Place, P. O.
Box 12500, St-Johns Newfoundand, Labrador A1B 3T5 Yalleen Pastoral Co Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 53 Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 193 Notes to the 2016 financial statements continued Joint ventures proportionately consolidated Capital % owned Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Address of principal place of business by Group Aluminerie Alouette Inc. : Canada 400, Chemin fide la Pointe-Noire, C. P. 1650, Sept-les Qubec G4R 5M9, 40 Canada Aluminerie fide Bcancour, Inc. : Canada 5555 Pierre Thibault Street, PO 30, Becancour, Quebec G0X 1B, Canada 25.2 Aluminium & Chemie Rotterdam B. V. : Netherlands Oude Maasweg 80, NL-3197 KJ, Botlek, Rotterdam, The Netherlands 65.8 Bao-HI Ranges Joint Venture: Australia Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, 54 Australia Beasley River Marketing Pty Ltd: Australia Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, 53 Australia Blair Athol Joint Venture 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 71.2 Cape Bougainville Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 67.5 Channar Mining Joint Venture: Australia Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, 60 Australia Consrcio fide Alumnio do Maranho: Brazil Av.
Engenheiro Emiliano Macieira 01, KM18, Pedrinhas, 65095-604, Sao 10 Luis, Maranhao, Brazil Diavik Joint Venture: Canada 300-5201 50th Avenue, Yellowknife NT X1A 2P9, Canada 60 Gladstone Power Station Joint Venture: Australia NRG Gladstone Operating Service, Gladstone Power Station, Gladstone 42.1 QLD 4680, Australia Grasberg joint operation: Indonesia JI Mandala Raya Selatan, No.
1 Kuala Kencana, Timika, Irian Jaya, 98663, 40 Indonesia Hail Creek Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 82 Hope Downs Joint Venture: Australia Level 22 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, 50 Australia Hunter Valley Operations Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 67.6 Kestrel Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 80 Mitchell Plateau Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 65.6 Mount Thorley Co Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 80 New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Ltd: New Zealand Level 6, 109 Featherston Street, Wellington, 6011, New Zealand 79.4 Pechiney Reynolds Quebec, Inc. : United States CSC, 233 South 13th Street, Suite 1900, Lincoln NE 68508, United States 50.2 Queensland Alumina Limited: Australia Plant Operations Building, Parsons Point, Gladstone QLD 4680, Australia 80 :Australia Level27, CentralPark, 152-158St.
GeorgesTerrace, PerthWA6000, 53 Australia Tomago Aluminium Company Pty Limited: Australia 638 Tomago Road, NSW 2322, Tomago, Australia 51.6 Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture: Australia 638 Tomago Road, NSW 2322, Tomago, Australia 51.6 Warkworth Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 55.6 Winchester South Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 75 Winter Road Joint Venture: Canada 300-5201 50th Avenue, Yellowknife NT X1A 2P9, Canada 33.3 a Directly held by Rio Tinto Limited.
b Directly held by Rio Tinto plc.
c Group ownership is held through an interest in capital.
The entity has no classes of shares.
e Group ownership in the associate is held through an interest in capital.
f All joint ventures are governed by a joint venture agreement.
g In liquidation or application for dissolution filed.
The filing for Darex Capital Inc. was submitted in January 2017.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION Rio Tinto plc Company balance sheet 2016 2015 As at 31 December Note US$m US$m Non-current assets Investments B 36,050 36,180 Trade and other receivables 392 36,442 36,180 Current assets Trade and other receivables C 6,070 883 Cash at bank and in hand 4 4 6,074 887 Total assets 42,516 37,067 Current liabilities Trade and other payables D 12,223 12,079 Dividends payable 16 18 Other financial liabilities G 23 12,262 12,097 Non-current liabilities Other financial liabilities G 392 Total liabilities 12,654 12,097 Net assets 29,862 24,970 Capital and reserves Share capital E 224 224 Share premium account 4,304 4,300 Other reserves F 11,988 11,988 Retained earnings 13,346 8,458 Total equity 29,862 24,970 The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Note A explains the principal accounting policies.
Profit after tax and total comprehensive income for the year amounted to US$6,875 million 2015: US$2,863 million.
As permitted by section 408 of the UK Companies Act 2006, no statement of comprehensive income for the Rio Tinto plc parent company is shown.
The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet, statement of comprehensive income and the related notes on pages 195 to 198 were approved by the directors on 1 March 2017 and the balance sheet is signed on their behalf by Jan du Plessis Jean-Sbastien Jacques Chris Lynch Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer Rio Tinto plc Registered number: 719885 Rio Tinto plc the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom, registered in England and Wales, and domiciled in the United Kingdom 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 195 Rio Tinto plc continued Company statement of changes in equity Share Share premium Other Retained Total capital account reserves earnings equity Year ended 31 December 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 224 4,300 11,988 8,458 24,970 Profit for the financial year comprehensive income 6,875 6,875 Dividends 2,046 2,046 Proceeds from issue of shares 4 15 Share based payments 58 58 Total 224 4,304 11,988 13,346 29,862 Share Share premium Other Retained Total capital account reserves earnings equity Year ended 31 December 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 230 4,288 11,982 8,643 25,143 Profit for the financial year comprehensive income 2,863 2,863 Dividends 3,119 3,119 Proceeds from issue of shares 12 1 13 Share buy-back 6 6 Share based payments 70 70 Total 224 4,300 11,988 8,458 24,970 196 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION The key area of judgment that has the most significant effect on the A Principal accounting policies amounts recognised in the financial statements is the review for a.
Basis of preparation impairment of investment carrying values.
The Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been prepared c. Currency translation using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of Items included in the financial statements are measured using the certain financial liabilities and in accordance with the UK Companies Act currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company 2006 and FRS 101.
The financial statements have been prepared on a operates the functional currency.
The financial statements are going concern basis.
presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional and As a result of the amendments to FRS 101 issued in July 2015 and presentation currency.
Transactions denominated in other currencies, effective for reporting periods beginning 1 January 2016, the balance including the issue of shares, are translated into the functional currency sheet is now presented in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of all periods presented in these financial statements.
The following monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are exemptions available under FRS 101 have been applied: recognised in the profit and loss account.
Exchange rates used are consistent with the rates used by the Group as Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment disclosed in the consolidated financial statements note 41. details of the number and weighted average exercise prices of share options and how the fair value of goods and services received was d. Investments determined.
Investments in Group companies are valued at cost less accumulated Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair value measurement disclosure impairment losses.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be of assets and liabilities.
e. Financial guarantees Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequently, comparative information requirements in respect of Paragraph the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the 79 a iv of IAS 1. expenditure required to settle the present obligation and the amount The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of financial initially recognised less cumulative amortisation.
statements: f. Share-based payments 10 d statement of cash flows : The Company operates a number of share-based payment plans for 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : Group employees, the details of which are included in the consolidated 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, financial statements note 44.
The fair value of the Companys share including cash flow statements :  38B-D additional comparative information : subsidiary in which the relevant employees work over the expected 111 cash flow statement information : and vesting period, with a corresponding entry to the profit and loss account reserve.
Payments received from the Companys subsidiaries in respect 134-136 capital management disclosures.
of these share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in the cost IAS 7 Statement of cash flows.
The Company uses fair values provided by Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in independent actuaries calculated using either a lattice-based option accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure of valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair value of the information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any issued and is not yet effective.
market-based vesting conditions attached to the award.
Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related party disclosures key Non-market based vesting conditions eg earnings per share targets are management compensation.
taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
The The requirements of IAS 24, Related party disclosures to disclose estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each related-party transactions entered into between two or more balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is members of a group.
adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after b.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
estimation uncertainty g. Dividend income The preparation of the financial statements requires management to Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is make assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in established.
applying accounting policies and making critical accounting estimates.
These judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on h. Treasury shares managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the Company and held having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders funds materially from the amounts included in the financial statements.
through the profit and loss account.
B Investments 2016 2015 US$m US$m Investments in Group companies: At 1 January 36,180 36,139 Additions 58 70 Disposals 160 Other adjustments 28 29 At 31 December 36,050 36,180 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 197 Rio Tinto plc continued At 31 December 2016 the Company had the following principal subsidiaries: Country of Percentage Company Principal activity incorporation shareholding Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100 Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100 In accordance with Section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements note 47.
C Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables includes US$6,007 million 31 December 2015: US$833 million, which is subject to interest based on LIBOR, is unsecured and repayable on demand.
D Trade and other payables Trade and other payables include US$12,079 million 31 December 2015: US$11,970 million which is subject to interest rates based on LIBOR, is unsecured and repayable on demand.
E Share capital 2016 2015 US$m US$m a Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each At 1 January 224 230 b Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 6 At 31 December 224 224 a 33,210 new shares 2015: 21,709 new shares were issued during the year and 743,380 shares 2015: 789,887 shares were reissued from treasury pursuant to share plans.
b During the year nil shares 2015: 40,912,881 shares were purchased from Rio Tinto Limited and immediately cancelled.
During 2016, fees of US$13 million 2015: US$nil were received from F Other reserves Oyu Tolgoi LLC and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd as consideration for Other reserves include US$11,936 million which represents the $13million difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares 31 December 2015: US$nil due and included within Current Assets issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009.
G Rio Tinto plc guarantees Rio Tinto plc has provided a number of guarantees in relation to various pension funds.
Subject to certain conditions, Rio Tinto plc would pay any Rio Tinto plc provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group contributions due from Group companies participating in these funds in companies.
the event that the companies fail to meet their contribution Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Groups requirements.
The guarantees were not called upon in 2016.
The external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt aggregate of company contributions to these plans in 2016 was Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled US$94 million 2015: US$107 million.
US$10.2 billion at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: US$19.4 Other guarantees issued by Rio Tinto plc in relation to Rio Tinto Group billion.
In addition, these entities also jointly guarantee the Groups entities as at 31 December 2016 amount to US$337 million undrawn credit facility which was US$7.5 billion at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: US$328 million.
Included within this balance is 31 December 2015: US$7.5 billion.
Rio Tinto plc has provided US$60 million 31 December 2015: US$59 million in relation to guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts that are in a liability non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
position of US$458 million at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: US$275 million.
Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed Rio Tinto plc has provided a guarantee, known as the completion support contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
At 31 December 2016 US$4,323 million of project finance debt The liability recognised for financial guarantees is US$415 million was outstanding under this facility 31 December 2015: US$ nil.
Tolgoi LLC is owned by Erdenes Oyu Tolgoi LLC 34 per cent, which is H Events after the balance sheet date controlled by the Government of Mongolia, and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd 66 per cent, of which Rio Tinto owns 51 per cent.
The project On 8 February 2017, the Group announced an on-market share buy-back finance has been raised for development of the underground mine and of US$0.5 billion Rio Tinto plc shares.
the CSU will terminate on the completion of the underground mine according to a set of completion tests set out in the project finance facility.
The Rio Tinto guarantee applies to the extent that Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd cannot satisfy Oyu Tolgoi LLCs project finance debt servicing obligations under its own guarantee to the lenders, called the sponsor debt service undertaking DSU.
Both the CSU and DSU contain a carve-out for certain political risk events.
com 199 Rio Tinto financial information by business unit continued a b c Gross revenue EBITDA Net earnings for the year ended 31 December for the year ended 31 December for the year ended 31 December Rio Tinto interest 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 % US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Product Group Total 35,318 36,785 50,041 14,096 13,404 20,720 6,064 5,517 10,321 Other items 411 546 755 241 375 593 Exploration and evaluation 175 237 300 147 211 262 Net interest 576 389 161 Underlying EBITDA earnings 13,510 12,621 19,665 5,100 4,540 9,305 Items excluded from underlying EBITDA earnings 18 1 687 563 825 483 5,406 2,778 EBITDA net earnings 12,823 12,058 18,840 4,617 866 6,527 Reconciliation to Group income statement Share of equity accounted unit sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 1,555 1,955 2,377 Depreciation & amortisation in subsidiaries excluding capitalised depreciation 4,691 4,553 4,828 Impairment charges, net of reversals 249 2,791 221 Depreciation & amortisation in equity accounted units 526 462 472 Taxation and finance items in equity accounted units 241 276 759 Consolidated sales revenue profit on ordinary activities before finance items and tax 33,781 34,829 47,664 7,116 3,976 12,560 200 riotinto.
com 201 Notes to financial information by business unit Business units are classified according to the Groups management On 1 March 2016, Coal & Allied disposed of its 40 per cent interest structure.
The financial information by business unit has been recast in in Bengalla Joint Venture and on 5 August 2016, Coal & Allied accordance with the organisational restructure announced on 21 June disposed of its 100 per cent interest in the Mount Pleasant project.
The main impacts are as follows: Iron Ore Company of Canada has Both were included up until their respective disposal dates.
moved from the Iron Ore product group to the Energy & Minerals product On 24 January 2017, Rio Tinto announced it had reached a binding group: Coal businesses have moved from the previous Copper & Coal agreement for the sale of its 100 per cent shareholding in Coal & product group to the Energy & Minerals product group: and, Diamonds Allied Industries Limited to Yancoal Australia Limited.
businesses have moved from the previous Diamonds & Minerals product group to the Copper & Diamonds product group.
The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent being satisfied, including approvals from the Australian Government, a Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity Chinese regulatory agencies and the New South Wales accounted units on a proportionately consolidated basis after Government.
adjusting for sales to subsidiaries in addition to consolidated sales.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales to As a result of the shareholding levels of various Chinese stateequity accounted units which are not included in gross sales owned entities in each of Yankuang, Yanzhou and Chinalco revenue.
Aluminium Corporation of China, and Chinalco being a 10.1 per cent shareholder in the Rio Tinto Group, Yancoal Australia is b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to considered to be a related party of Rio Tinto for the purposes of equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance the UK Listing Rules and the ASX Listing Rules.
Accordingly, items, depreciation and amortisation charged to the income approval is also required from a majority of independent Rio Tinto statement in the period.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same shareholders that is, not including Chinalco and any other entities items that are excluded from underlying earnings.
considered to be associates of Chinalco under the UK Listing c Represents profit after tax for the period attributable to the Rules.
owners of the Rio Tinto Group.
Business unit earnings are stated Subject to all approvals and other conditions precedent being before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related satisfied, it is expected that the transaction will complete in the to provisions.
Earnings attributed to business units do not include second half of 2017. amounts that are excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
j On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto disposed of its interest in Rio Tinto d Pilbara represents the Groups 100 per cent holding in Hamersley, Coal Mozambique RTCM, including its interests in the Benga 50 per cent holding of Hope Downs Joint Venture and 65 per cent project, a 65:35 joint venture with Tata Steel Limited.
Zululand holding of Robe River Iron Associates.
The Groups net beneficial Anthracite Colliery ZAC, which was retained, is reported within interest in Robe River Iron Associates is 53 per cent as 30 per cent Coal Evaluation projects other.
On 2 September 2016, Rio Tinto is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary and 35 per cent is disposed of its interest in ZAC.
held through a 100 per cent owned subsidiary.
k Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc 100 per e Presented on an integrated operations basis splitting activities cent, QIT Madagascar Minerals SA QMM, 80 per cent and between Bauxite & Alumina, Primary Metal, Pacific Aluminium and Richards Bay Minerals attributable interest of 74 per cent.
Other integrated operations which in total reflect the results of the integrated production of aluminium and Other product group l Includes Rio Tintos interests in Energy Resources of Australia items which relate to other commercial activities.
68.4 per cent and Rssing Uranium Limited 68.6 per cent.
f Through a joint venture agreement with Freeport-McMoRan Inc. m Simfer Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in Jersey in which Freeport, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of material mined the Group has a 53 per cent interest, has an 80.75 per cent above an agreed threshold as a consequence of expansions and interest in Simfer S. A. the company that operates the Simandou developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. mining project in Guinea.
The Group therefore has a 42.8 per cent indirect interest in Simfer S. A.
These entities are consolidated as g Rio Tintos interest in Oyu Tolgoi is held indirectly through its subsidiaries and together referred to as the Simandou iron ore 50.8 per cent investment in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd TRQ, project.
where TRQs principal asset is its 66 per cent investment in Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which owns the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine.
n On 2 September 2016, Rio Tinto disposed of its interest in Zululand Anthracite Colliery ZAC, which was previously reported h Includes Rio Tintos interests in Argyle 100 per cent and Diavik within Coal Evaluation projects other.
Murowa 77.8 per cent was included until its disposal to RZ Murowa Holdings Limited on 17 June 2015. o Other Operations include Rio Tintos 100 per cent interest in the Gove alumina refinery and Rio Tinto Marine.
i As at 31 December 2016, includes Rio Tintos 100 per cent shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited and its whollyp Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases owned subsidiaries.
Rio Tinto as a 100 per cent owner of Coal & less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised Allied holds a 67.6 per cent, 80 per cent and 55.6 per cent evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible respectively, with management rights, in Hunter Valley assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries Operations, Mount Thorley and Warkworth.
capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of joint operations and equity accounted units.
As at 31 December 2015, this represented Rio Tintos 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied, through which Rio Tinto held its beneficial q Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding interests in Bengalla Joint Venture, Mount Thorley and Warkworth post-retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before of 32 per cent, 64 per cent and 44.5 per cent respectively.
Operating assets are stated after deduction of non-controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the Mitsubishi has moved from holding a 20 per cent stake in Coal & net assets of the relevant companies ie inclusive of such Allied as at 31 December 2015 to holding a direct 32.4 per cent companies debt and amounts due to or from Rio Tinto Group stake in the Hunter Valley Operations.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION r Capital expenditure in 2016 for RTCA includes net proceeds of At 31 December 2015, assets and liabilities held for sale US$192 million for the disposal of 100 per cent interest in the primarily related to the Groups 40 per cent interest in the Mount Pleasant thermal coal project to MACH Energy Australia Bengalla coal Joint venture and its interest in Blair Athol.
Assets and liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2014 s Following the termination of the previous sales agreement for comprised Rio Tintos interests in the Blair Athol coal project and Blair Athol, a binding agreement was signed in September 2016 SouthGobi Resources Ltd. to divest Rio Tintos 71.2 per cent interest to Terracom subject to certain conditions precedent.
com 203 Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 Corporations Act, on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an order company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders dated 14 December 2015 that granted relief to Rio Tinto Limited from in that single company : and certain requirements of the Corporations Act in relation to the with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AAS, of the following amounts: Companys financial statements and associated reports.
The order consolidated loss profit for the financial year, total consolidated essentially continues the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto Limited since comprehensive loss income for the financial year and total the formation of the Groups dual listed companies DLC structure in consolidated equity at the end of the financial year see page 115.
The order applies to Rio Tinto Limiteds financial reporting Those consolidated financial statements must also be audited in relation obligations for the financial years and half-years ending between to their compliance with relevant Australian and UK requirements.
Rio 31 December 2015 and 30 June 2020 inclusive.
Tinto Limited must also prepare a Directors report which satisfies the In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act to content requirements of the Corporations Act applied on the basis that prepare consolidated financial statements covering only itself and its for these purposes the consolidated entity is the Group, and the controlled entities, the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated financial statements cover the Group.
This includes a consolidated financial statements in which it, Rio Tinto plc and their Remuneration Report see pages 70 to 107 prepared in accordance with respective controlled entities are treated as a single economic entity.
In the requirements of the Corporations Act.
addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be prepared: Rio Tinto Limited is also required to comply generally with the in accordance with the principles and requirements of International lodgement and distribution requirements of the Corporations Act Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU including timing requirements in relation to those consolidated IFRS rather than the Australian Accounting Standards AAS except financial statements including any concise financial statements, the for one limited instance in the case of any concise report, and in .
 accordance with UK financial reporting obligations generally: requires that a non-binding resolution to adopt the Remuneration Report on the basis that the transitional provisions of International Financial be voted on by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting.
Reporting Standard 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Rio Tinto Limited is not required to prepare separate consolidated Reporting Standards, should be applied using the combined financial financial statements solely for it and its controlled entities.
Rio Tinto statements previously prepared for Rio Tinto Limited, Rio Tinto plc Limited is also not required to prepare and lodge parent entity financial and their respective controlled entities under Generally Accepted statements for itself in respect of each relevant financial year.
Accounting Principles in the United Kingdom, under which the DLC Merger between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc was accounted for Rio Tinto Limited must, however, in accordance with the Corporations Act using merger, rather than acquisition, accounting reflecting that include in the consolidated financial statements for the Group, as a note, neither Rio Tinto Limited nor Rio Tinto plc was acquired by, or is various parent entity information regarding Rio Tinto Limited including controlled by, the other: and meaning that the existing carrying in relation to assets, liabilities, shareholders equity, profit and loss, amounts, rather than fair values, of assets and liabilities at the time of income, guarantees, contingent liabilities, and contractual the DLC Merger were used to measure those assets and liabilities at commitments prepared in accordance with AAS see page 176. formation : 204 riotinto.
