Shareholder information Riotinto of Australia Limited changed its name person was removed as a director of Rio Tinto Organisational structure to CRA Limited.
plc,  The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc, of Rio Tinto Limited.
Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA which is registered in England and Wales under discovered important mineral deposits, One consequence of the DLC merger is that company number 719885 under the developed major mining projects and also grew Rio Tinto is subject to a wide range of laws, UK Companies Act 2006, and is listed on the through acquisition.
rules and regulatory review across multiple London Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, jurisdictions.
Where these rules differ, Rio Tinto which is registered in Australia under RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through will comply at a minimum with the ABN 96 004 458 404 under the Australian a dual listed companies structure.
In 1997, RTZ requirements in each jurisdiction.
Corporations Act 2001, and is listed on the became Rio Tinto plc and CRA became Australian Securities Exchange.
Dividend arrangements Rio Tinto is headquartered in London and has The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends Dual listed companies structure a corporate office in Melbourne.
paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility and terms of the dual listed companies merger the is without taking into account any associated the underlying shares are registered with the DLC structure which was designed to place the tax credits.
Dividends are determined in US US Securities and Exchange Commission and shareholders of both Companies in dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, .
substantially the same position as if they held  shares in a single entity owning all of the dollars.
The Companies are also required to Nomenclature and financial data assets of both Companies.
announce and pay their dividends and other Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate distributions as close in time to each other Following the approval of the DLC structure, together and are referred to in this report as as possible.
both Companies entered into a DLC Merger Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement In the unlikely event that one Company did not theGroup.
 through which each Company agreed to ensure have sufficient distributable reserves to pay the used for convenience only, since both that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc and equalised dividend or the equalised capital Companies, and the individual companies in Rio Tinto Limited are managed on a unified distribution, it would be entitled to receive a which they directly or indirectly own basis, to ensure that the boards of directors of top-up payment from the other relevant investments, are separate and distinct legal each Company are the same, and to give effect Company.
The top-up payment could be made entities.
Limited, plc, Pty, Inc. to certain arrangements designed to provide as a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, or by Limitada, L. L. C. A. S. or SA have shareholders of each Company with a common way of a contractual payment.
generally been omitted from Group company economic interest in the DLC structure.
names, except to distinguish between Rio Tinto If the payment of an equalised dividend would plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data in In order to achieve this third objective, the contravene the law applicable to one of the US dollars US$ is derived from, and should be Sharing Agreement provided for the ratio of Companies they may depart from the read in conjunction with, the 2016 financial dividend, voting and capital distribution rights Equalisation Ratio.
In general, financial data in pounds attached to each Rio Tinto plc share and to departure occur, the relevant Company will put sterling and Australian dollars A$ have each Rio Tinto Limited share to be fixed in an aside reserves to be held for payment on the been translated from the consolidated financial Equalisation Ratio which has remained relevant shares at a later date.
statements and have been provided solely for unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing Agreement has Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to convenience: exceptions arise where data can provided for this ratio to be revised in special enforce the dividend equalisation provisions of be extracted directly from source records.
circumstances where, for example, certain the Sharing Agreement.
Certain key information has been provided in all modifications are made to the share capital of three currencies in the 2016 one Company, such as rights issues, bonus The DLC Dividend Shares can also be utilised to financial statements.
issues, share splits and share consolidations, provide the Group with flexibility for internal but not to the share capital of the other.
funds management by allowing dividends to be History Outside these specified circumstances, the paid between the Companies and Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the their subsidiaries.
1962 then called The Rio Tinto-Zinc approval of shareholders under the Voting arrangements Corporation Limited RTZ and was formed by Class Rights Action approval procedure In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides the merger of The Rio Tinto Company Limited described under Voting rights below.
In for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited.
addition, any adjustments are required to be Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate The Rio Tinto Company was incorporated in confirmed by the Groups external auditors.
on all matters which affect shareholders of 1873 to reopen ancient copper workings in Consistent with the creation of the DLC both Companies in similar ways.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation structure, directors of each Company seek to referred to as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint Limiteds origins trace back to the Australian act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
Decisions include the creation of new classes of mining industry in the early twentieth century.
The Class Rights Action approval procedure is share capital, the appointment or removal of Operating out of Broken Hill in New South intended to deal with instances where there directors and auditors and the receiving of the Wales, it came to prominence with the mining may be a conflict of interest between the annual financial statements.
All shareholder of silver, lead and zinc deposits and later shareholders of each Company.
resolutions including Joint Decisions are voted expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
To ensure that the boards of both Companies Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on are identical, resolutions to appoint or remove The Sharing Agreement also provides for the 17 December 1959 then called The Rio Tinto directors must be put to shareholders of both protection of shareholders of each Company by Mining Company of Australia Limited and in  asJoint requiring their separate approval for decisions 1962 the Australian interests of The Decisions as described under Voting rights.
It that do not affect the shareholders of both Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited and The is a requirement of the constitution of each Companies equally.
Matters requiring this Rio Tinto Company Limited were merged to Company that a person can only be a director approval procedure are referred to as form Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited as a of one Company if that person is also a director .
limited liability company under the laws of the of the other Company.
So, for example, if a For example, fundamental elements of the DLC State of Victoria, Australia.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OPERATIONS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION structure cannot be changed unless Rio Tinto Limited and cannot enforce the person cannot exercise control over one approved separately by shareholders of both voting arrangements relating to the Special Company without having made offers to the Companies under the Class Rights Action Voting Share.
public shareholders of both Companies.
At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at It is consistent with the creation of the single Exceptions to these principles can arise in which a Joint Decision is considered, each economic enterprise, and the equal treatment situations such as where legislation requires Rio Tinto Limited share carries one vote and of the two sets of shareholders, that these laws the separate approval of a decision by the the holder of its Special Voting Share will have and regulations should operate in this way.
The appropriate majority of shareholders in one one vote for each vote cast by the public Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the Company, and approval of the matter by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose shareholders of the other Company is meeting.
The holder of the Special Voting restrictions on any person who controls, not required.
, andonly, in directly or indirectly, 20 per cent or more of the accordance with the votes cast for and against votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such a Where a matter has been expressly the equivalent resolution at the parallel person only has an interest in either Rio Tinto categorised as either a Joint Decision or a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting.
Limited or Rio Tinto plc, the restrictions will ClassRightsAction,  only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, the power to change that categorisation.
If a The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares  matter falls within both categories, it is treated do not actually hold any voting shares in Companys general meetings.
In addition, the Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in directors can determine that matters not Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce the voting If one of the thresholds specified above is expressly listed in either category should be arrangements relating to the Special breached, subject to certain limited exceptions put to shareholders for their approval under Voting Share.
and notification by the relevant Company, such either procedure.
persons may not attend or vote at general Capital distribution arrangements meetings of the relevant Company, may not To facilitate the joint voting arrangements, If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, receive dividends or other distributions from each Company has entered into shareholder the Sharing Agreement provides for a valuation the relevant Company and may be divested of voting agreements.
Each Company has issued to be made of the surplus assets of both their interest by the directors of the relevant a Special Voting Share to a special purpose Companies.
If the surplus assets available for Company.
These restrictions continue to apply company held in trust for shareholders by a distribution by one Company on each of the  common Trustee.
shares held by its shareholders exceed the offer for all of the publicly held shares of the surplus assets available for distribution by the Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting other Company, or have reduced their other Company on each of the shares held by Share RTP Special Voting Share to RTL controlling interest below the thresholds its shareholders, then an equalising payment Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has specified, or have acquired through a permitted between the two Companies shall be made, to issued its Special Voting Share RTL Special means at least 50 per cent of the publicly held , such Voting Share to RTP Shareholder SVC.
The shares of each Company.
that the amount available for distribution on total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions These provisions are designed to ensure that each share held by shareholders of each by the shareholders of one Company are voted offers for the publicly held shares of both Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
at the parallel meeting of the other Company.
Companies would be required in order to avoid The objective is to ensure that the The role of these special purpose companies in the restrictions set out above, even if the shareholders of both Companies have achieving this is described below.
interests which breach the thresholds are only equivalent entitlements to the assets of the In exceptional circumstances, certain held in one of the Companies.
The directors do combined Group on a per share basis, taking shareholders of the Companies can be not have the discretion to exempt a person account of the Equalisation Ratio.
excluded from voting at the respective from the operation of these rules.
The Sharing Agreement does not grant any Companys general meetings because they Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies enforceable rights to the shareholders of either have acquired shares in one Company in excess agree to co-operate to enforce the above Company upon liquidation of a Company.
of a given threshold without making an offer for restrictions contained in their Articles of all the shares in the other Company.
If this Limitations on ownership of shares and Association and Constitution.
should occur, the votes cast by these excluded merger obligations shareholders will be disregarded.
Guarantees  In 1995 each Company entered into a Deed Australia impose restrictions and obligations Following the Companies general meetings Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the on persons who control interests in publicly the overall results of the voting are announced other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll listed companies in excess of defined to the stock exchanges, to the media and Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the thresholds that, under certain circumstances, published on the Rio Tinto website.
contractual obligations of the other Company include obligations to make a public offer for At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at and the obligations of other persons which are all of the outstanding issued shares of the which a Joint Decision is considered, each guaranteed by the other Company, subject to relevant company.
The threshold applicable Rio Tinto plc share carries one vote and the certain limited exceptions.
Beneficiaries under to Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations  the Deed Poll Guarantees may make demands is 30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under for each vote cast by the public shareholders of upon the guarantor thereunder without first Australian law and regulations is 20 per cent Rio Tinto Limited in their parallel meeting.
The having recourse to the Company or persons on a standalone basis or, taking into account  whose obligations are being guaranteed.
The only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the obligations of the guarantor under each Deed Decision basis.
votes cast by public shareholders for and Poll Guarantee expire upon termination of the As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Sharing Agreement and under other limited Association of Rio Tinto plc and the Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting.
circumstances, but only in respect of Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were obligations arising after such termination and, The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary amended with the intention of extending these in the case of other limited circumstances, the shares do not actually hold any voting shares in laws and regulations to the combined publication and expiry of due notice.
The Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that a shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 245 Shareholder information continued   relation to their interest in the shares of the for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
The ASX is a other Company.
national stock exchange with an automated trading system.
Markets Share ownership Rio Tinto plc Substantial shareholders The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock Exchange with the shares Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic , any Trading Service SETS system.
shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights of three per cent or more, or any person with Rio Tinto plc American depositary receipts are voting power of five per cent or more in listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the Further details relating to Rio Tinto plc relevant companies with notice.
American depositary receipts are available in Rio Tintos Annual report on Form 20-F. Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX.
The shareholders who have provided such, or an equivalent, notice as of 17 February 2017 are: Percentage of issued share Rio Tinto plc Date of notice Number of shares capital BlackRock, Inc. 4 Dec 2009 127,744,871 8.38 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 21 Jan 2014 57,950,440 4.10 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3 Apr 2014 55,307,243 3.91 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 24 Feb 2015 56,647,518 4.01 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 17 Sep 2015 54,763,331 3.93 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 9 Oct 2015 55,867,795 4.02 Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 26 Jan 2016 182,550,329 13.10 Rio Tinto Limited Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 10 Jun 2009 See footnote a See footnote a BlackRock, Inc. 24 Mar 2015 22,161,984 5.13 BlackRock, Inc. 13 Apr 2015 See footnote b See footnote b BlackRock, Inc. 30 Oct 2015 See footnote c See footnote c BlackRock, Inc. 14 Apr 2016 21,479,771 5.06 BlackRock, Inc. 11 Oct 2016 26,656,003 6.28 a In its substantial holding notice filed on 10 June 2009 Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd, a Singapore-based entity owned by Chinalco Aluminium Corporation of China disclosed a holding of 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares which, at that time, through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified, gave these entities and their associates voting power of 9.3 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
Rio Tinto plc has subsequently, by notice dated 26 January 2016, disclosed that Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltds holding of 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares gave these entities and their associates voting power of 13.1 per cent in Rio Tinto plc, which in turn would give these entities and their associates voting power of 10.1 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision Matter.
b In its substantial holding notice filed on 13 April 2015, BlackRock, Inc. and its associates disclosed a holding of 120,174,604 shares in Rio Tinto plc and 22,330,443 shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified, , Inc. anditsassociates voting power of 7.7 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
c By subsequent notice dated 30 October 2015, BlackRock, Inc. and its associates disclosed that they no longer held a relevant interest in five per cent or more of Rio Tinto Limiteds issued capital.
Asfarasisknown,  As of 17 February 2017, the total amount of Limited are not directly or indirectly owned the Groups voting securities owned by the or controlled by another corporation or by any directors and executives in Rio Tinto plc was government or natural person.
Rio Tinto is 138,478 ordinary shares of 10p each or ADRs not aware of any arrangement which may and in Rio Tinto Limited was 69,803 ordinary result in a change in control of Rio Tinto plc shares, in aggregate representing less than or Rio Tinto Limited.
No shareholder one per cent of the Groups total number of possesses voting rights that differ from those ordinary shares in issue.
attaching to Rio Tinto plcs and Rio Tinto Limiteds securities.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OPERATIONS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Analysis of ordinary shareholders Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited No.
b This includes 117,122,918 shares held in the name of a nominee on the share register.
The shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
c The total issued share capital is made up of 1,384,525,536 publicly held shares: of which 9,607,891 shares are held in Treasury.
d Publicly held shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Twenty largest registered shareholders In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the number of shares and the percentage of issued capital each holds as of 17 February 2017: Percentage of Number of issued share Rio Tinto Limited shares capital HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 121,820,095 28.72 J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 71,864,782 16.94 Citicorp Nominees Pty Ltd 24,176,758 5.70 National Nominees Limited 21,941,431 5.17 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP A C 14,204,180 3.35 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State Inv A C 7,505,389 1.77 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd DRP 6,446,083 1.52 Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 4,031,753 0.95 Australian Mutual Provident Society 3,493,185 0.82 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A C 3,061,456 0.72 Argo Investments Limited 2,445,739 0.58 RBC Global Services Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 2,353,866 0.55 Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd RE 3000086 A C 2,014,757 0.47 UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 948,027 0.22 HKBA Nominees Limited 709,213 0.17 BNP Paribas Noms NZ Ltd DRP 676,457 0.16 Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd RE 3000091 A C 659,764 0.16 Navigator Australia Ltd MLC Investment Sett A C 623,970 0.15 CGU Insurance 590,308 0.14 The Senior Master of the Supreme Court Common Fund No.
com 247 Shareholder information continued US$0.7611 to the Australian dollar director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, Dividends respectively.
For those Rio Tinto plc theCompany,   shareholders who elected to receive their the Company, for which the director has ordinary shares every year since incorporation interim dividend in Australian dollars the assumed responsibility under an indemnity, in 1962.
The process by which Rio Tinto applicable conversion rate was A$1.75850 to security or guarantee: shareholders receive dividends is explained the pound sterling and for Rio Tinto Limited relating to an offer of securities in which he under the description of the DLC structure shareholders who elected to receive their or she may be interested as a holder of on page 244. dividend in sterling the applicable conversion securities or as an underwriter: Dividend policy rate was 0.56867 to the Australian dollar.
concerning another body corporate in which The dividend policy adopted by the Board in the director is beneficially interested in less Final dividends of 100.56 pence or February 2016 provides that at the end of each than one per cent of the issued shares of 163.62 Australian cents per share will be paid financial period, the board will determine an any class of shares of such a on 6 April 2017.
For those Rio Tinto plc appropriate total level of ordinary dividend per body corporate: shareholders requesting the 2016 final share, taking into account the results for the relating to an employee benefit in which the dividend be paid in Australian dollars, those financial year, the outlook for our major director will share equally with holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs each commodities, the boards view of the long-term other employees: representing one share and those Rio Tinto growth prospects of the business and the Limited shareholders requesting the 2016 final relating to liability insurance that the Companys objective of maintaining a strong dividend be paid in pounds sterling, the Company is empowered to purchase for the balance sheet.
The intention is that the balance applicable conversion rates will be determined benefit of directors of the Company in between the interim and final dividend is on 30 March 2017. respect of actions undertaken as directors weighted to the final dividend.
or officers of the Company: and Dividend reinvestment plan DRP The board expects total cash returns to concerning the giving of indemnities in shareholders over the longer term to be in a Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered favour of directors or the funding of range of 40 to 60 per cent of underlying shareholders, which provides the opportunity expenditure by directors to defend criminal, earnings in aggregate through the cycle.
to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto civil or regulatory proceedings or actions shares in the market.
The board is committed to maintaining an appropriate balance between cash returns to Material contracts Under Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, except shareholders and investment in the business, where a director is constrained by Australian with the intention of maximising Articles of Association and Constitution, and law, a director may be present at a meeting of shareholder value.
DLC Sharing Agreement  As explained on pages 244 to 245. under the Acknowledging the cyclical nature of the has a material personal interest is being terms of the DLC structure the shareholders of industry, in periods of strong earnings and cash considered and may vote in respect of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered generation,  that matter.
into certain contractual arrangements which supplement the ordinary dividends with The directors are empowered to exercise all the are designed to place the shareholders of both additional returns to shareholders.
, to  Dividend determination charge any property or business of the as if they held shares in a single entity which  Companies or all, or any, of their uncalled owned all of the assets of both Companies.
US dollars, making this the most appropriate  Generally, and as far as is permitted by the measure for our global business performance.
other security for a debt, liability or obligation UK Companies Act and the Australian It is our main reporting currency and, of the Companies or of any other person.
The Corporations Act and ASX Listing Rules, this consequently, the natural currency for dividend directors shall restrict the borrowings of  determination.
Dividends determined in Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the  US dollars are translated at exchange rates aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
The prevailing two days prior to the declaration and the Company and its subsidiaries shall not summaries below include descriptions of  exceed an amount equal to one and one half material rights of the shareholders of both Australian dollars by Rio Tinto Limited.
times the Companies share capital plus Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
aggregate reserves unless sanctioned by an On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can Objects ordinary resolution of the Company.
elect to receive dividends in Australian dollars At the 2009 annual general meetings, and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders can elect to Directors are not required to hold any shares of shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto receive dividends in pounds sterling.
If such an either Company by way of qualification.
The Limited approved amendments to the election is made, the dividend amounts Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 107 constitutional documents whereby the object received will be calculated by converting the provides information on shareholding policies  declared dividend using the exchange rates relating to executive and non-executive to have the widest possible scope of activities.
applicable to sterling and Australian dollars directors.
Please refer to the Corporate .
Directors governance section on pages 55 to 56 for , a information on the appointment of directors.
Shareholders who wish to receive their director may not vote in respect of any dividends in any other currencies should Rights attaching to shares proposal in which he or she, or any other contact the Companies share registrars, who Under English law, dividends on shares may person connected with him or her, has any offer payment services in other currencies, only be paid out of profits available for interest, other than by virtue of his or her subject to a fee.
distribution, as determined in accordance with interests in shares or debentures or other 2016 dividends generally accepted accounting principles and securities of, or otherwise in or through, the The 2016 interim and final dividends were bytherelevantlaw.
 Company, except in certain prescribed determined at 45 US cents and at 125 US cents to receive such dividends as may be declared circumstances, including in respect per share respectively and the applicable by the directors.
The directors may also pay of resolutions: conversion rates for the interim and final shareholders such interim dividends as appear dividend were US$1.33135 and US$1.2365 to indemnifying him or her or a third party in to them to be justified by the financial position the pound sterling and US$0.76105 and respect of obligations incurred by the of the Group.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OPERATIONS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Under the Australian Corporations Act, A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy Rights upon a winding-up dividends on shares may only be paid if the the authority to demand a poll, or to join others  companys assets exceed its liabilities in demanding one.
otherwise agree, upon a winding-up, the immediately before the dividend is declared balance of assets available for distribution: The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc and the excess is sufficient for the payment of general meeting is three members present in after the payment of all creditors including thedividend,  person or by proxy or other duly authorised certain preferential creditors, whether and reasonable to the Companys shareholders representative and entitled to vote, and for a statutorily preferred creditors or normal as a whole, and the payment of the dividend Rio Tinto Limited general meeting is two creditors: and does not materially prejudice the Companys members present in person or by proxy or subject to any special rights attaching to ability to pay its creditors.
Any Rio Tinto plc other duly authorised representative.
any class of shares, dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend was declared, or became due Matters are transacted at general meetings by is to be distributed among the holders of for payment, will be forfeited and returned to the proposing and passing of resolutions as: ordinary shares according to the amounts the Company.
Any Rio Tinto Limited dividend paid-up on the shares held by them.
This ordinary resolutions, which require the unclaimed may be invested or otherwise used distribution is generally to be made in cash.
A  by the board for the benefit of the Company liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of a those persons voting at a meeting at which until claimed or otherwise disposed of special resolution of the shareholders, divide thereisaquorum,  according to Australian law.
Rio Tinto Limited is among the shareholders the whole or any part of directors: and governed by Victorian unclaimed monies .
special resolutions, which require the legislation, which requires the Company to pay affirmative vote of not less than The Sharing Agreement further sets out further to the State Revenue Office any unclaimed three-fourths of the persons voting at a arrangements relating to the distribution of dividend payments of A$20 or more that at meeting at which there is a quorum, for assets of each of the Companies in the event of 1 March each year have remained unclaimed example amending the Articles of a liquidation as explained on page 245. forover12months.
Association of Rio Tinto plc or the Facility agreement Voting Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
Details of the Groups US$7.5 billion Voting at any general meeting of shareholders The Sharing Agreement further classifies multi-currency committed revolving credit on a resolution on which the holder of the  facilities are set out in note 30 to the 2016 Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be Class Rights Actions as explained under financial statements.
decided by a poll, and any other resolution Voting arrangements on pages 244 and 245.  Exchange controls and foreign poll has been duly demanded.
On a show of Annual general meetings must be convened investment hands, every shareholder who is present in with 21 days written notice for Rio Tinto plc person or by proxy or other duly authorised Rio Tinto plc and with 28 days notice for Rio Tinto Limited.
representative and is entitled to vote has one In accordance with the authority granted by There are no UK foreign exchange controls or vote regardless of the number of shares held.
shareholders at the Rio Tinto plc annual other UK restrictions on the import or export of The holder of the Special Voting Share is not general meeting in 2016, other meetings of capital or on the payment of dividends to entitled to vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, Rio Tinto plc may be convened with 14 days non-resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or every shareholder who is present in person or written notice for the passing of a special that materially affect the conduct of Rio Tinto by proxy or other duly authorised resolution and with 14 days notice for any plcs operations.
It should be noted, however, representative and is entitled to vote has one other resolution, depending on the nature of thatvarioussanctions, laws, regulationsor vote for every ordinary share for which he or .
Allmeetingsof conventions may restrict the import or export sheistheholderand, inthecaseofJoint Rio Tinto Limited require 28 days notice.
In of capital by, or the payment of dividends to, Decisions, the holder of the Special Voting calculating the period of notice the days of non-resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares.
 delivery or receipt of the notice and the date of There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs respect of the publicly held shares of the the meeting are not included.
Among other Articles of Association or under UK law that other Company.
things, the notice must specify the nature of  .
vote Rio Tinto plc shares.
However, certain of A poll may be demanded by any of the provisions of the Australian Foreign the following: Variation of rights Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 described If, at any time, the share capital is divided into the chairman of the meeting: below also apply to the acquisition by different classes of shares, the rights attached at least five shareholders entitled to vote on non-Australian persons of interests in to any class may be varied, subject to the the resolution: securities of Rio Tinto plc.
provisions of the relevant legislation, with the any shareholder or shareholders consent in writing of holders of three-fourths in Rio Tinto Limited representing in the aggregate not less than value of the shares of that class or upon the Under current Australian legislation, Australia one tenth Rio Tinto plc or one 20th adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed does not impose general exchange or foreign Rio Tinto Limited of the total voting rights at a separate meeting of the holders of the currency controls.
Subject to some specific of all shareholders entitled to vote on shares of that class.
At every such separate requirements and restrictions, Australian and the resolution: meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of foreign currency may be freely brought into any shareholder or shareholders holding Association and Constitution relating to and sent out of Australia.
There are Rio Tinto plc shares conferring a right to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except requirements to report cash transfers in or out vote at the meeting on which there have that the quorum for Rio Tinto plc should be two of Australia of A$10,000 or more.
There is a been paid-up sums in the aggregate equal or more persons who hold or represent by prohibition on, or in some cases the specific to not less than one tenth of the total sum proxy not less than one-third in nominal value prior approval of the Department of Foreign paid up on all the shares conferring that of the issued shares of the class.
Affairs and Trade or Minister for Foreign Affairs right: or the holder of the Special Voting Share of either Company.
