Shareholder information continued must be obtained for, certain payments or Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers Act.
In acquisitions or transactions may be required to other dealings connected with countries or broad terms, the Takeovers Act applies to provide notice to the Treasurer before parties identified with terrorism, or to whom acquisitions of interests in securities in an proceeding with the acquisition or transaction.
United Nations or autonomous Australian Australian entity by a foreign person where, as The Treasurer has the power to order sanctions apply.
Sanction, anti-money aresult, asingleforeignperson andany divestment in cases where relevant laundering and counterterrorism laws may associate would control 20 per cent or more of acquisitions or transactions have already restrict or prohibit payments, transactions and the voting power or potential voting power in occurred, including where prior notice to the dealings or require reporting of certain the entity, or several foreign persons and any Treasurer was not required.
associates would control 40 per cent or more does not affect the rights of owners whose of the voting power or the potential voting interests are held in compliance with the Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct power in the entity.
The potential voting power legislation.
withholding tax from foreign remittances of in an entity is determined having regard to the dividends, to the extent that they are Limitations on voting and shareholding voting shares in the entity that would be on unfranked, and from payments of interest.
Except for the provisions of the Takeovers Act, issue if all rights whether or not presently there are no limitations imposed by law, Acquisitions of interests in shares, and certain exercisable to be issued voting shares in the  other equity instruments in Australian entity were exercised.
The Takeovers Act also Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, on the rights companies by non-Australian foreign applies to direct investments by foreign of non-residents or foreigners to hold or vote persons are subject to review and approval by government investors, in certain circumstances the Groups ordinary shares or ADRs that the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of regardless of the size of the investment.
would not apply generally to all shareholders.
Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and Persons who are proposing relevant UK Listing Rules cross reference table The following table contains cross references identifying the location of information required to be disclosed in the Annual report by the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R. Listing rule Description of Listing Rule Reference in Report 9.8.
4 1 A statement of any interest capitalised by the Group during the year Note 8 Finance income and finance costs and note 17 Deferred taxation 9.8.
4 2 Any information required by Listing Rule 9.2.
4 4 Details of any long-term incentive scheme as required by LR 9.4.
4 5 Details of any arrangement under which a director has waived any emoluments N A 9.8.
4 6 Details of any arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive future emoluments N A 9.8.
4 7 Details of any allotments of shares by the company for cash not previously authorised by shareholders N A 9.8.
4 8 Details of any allotments of shares for cash by a major subsidiary of the company N A 9.8.
4 9 Details of the participation by the company in any placing made by its parent company N A 9.8.
4 10 Details of any contract of significance with the company in which a director has a material interest: N A or a contract between the company and a controlling shareholder 9.8.
4 11 Details of any contract for the provision of services to the company by a controlling shareholder N A 9.8.
4 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends Note 11 Dividends 9.8.
4 13 Details of where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends N A 9.8.
