Our operating environment Our operating environment Key influences in our operating environment Our ability to serve customers and commercial impact on us.
We have create value for the long term is heavily categorised them accordingly, shown influenced by the environment in in the diagram below.
This provides which we operate.
We have assessed additional context for our performance the importance of these influences and future strategy.
Each influence both in terms of their relevance to our is briefly described on the following stakeholders including customers, pages, with links provided to the investors, UK government, employees relevant parts of the Strategic Report and civil society and their potential for more detail.
Current priority Critical considerations that Long term and emerging considerations will always determine our considerations of growing licence to operate importance Trust in the Customer service banking sector Security and privacy Social inequality Support for Ethics, culture and and poverty enterprise integrity Pay differentials Employee engagement Strength and stability Climate and and inclusion environment Political landscape Conduct Financial Banking regulation capability UK housing Operational Health of the UK competence and global economy Skills & capability Technological of staff innovation and disruption UK infrastructure Changing customer needs Commercial impact High 32 High Stakeholder interest Influences explained and where to find out more.
Customer service UK housing Demand for housing in some parts Delivering excellent customer service Key is essential for the banking sector to of the UK outstrips supply, reducing affordability and harming family build trust.
Maintaining and growing a loyal and satisfied customer base disposable incomes.
Quality of housing stock is also below standard in some requires an appropriate digital and physical presence and clear areas.
Mortgage providers play a key role in the housing market.
CEO Business Sustainability review model pages on PBB review PBB, CPB & NWM rbs.
com Section review sections Security and privacy Technological innovation Risk Economic Strategic and disruption Public understanding of companies use overview indicators report of personal information is low and many The banking sector is changing rapidly, with the creation of new technologies, do not trust companies to handle data responsibly.
At the same time, protecting new market entrants and high potential for disruption.
There is also a broad data from cyber and malicious attacks is also a vital part of providing a safe and regulatory plan to deliver an Open Banking environment which will help secure banking service.
to improve customers overall banking PBB review section experience.
This, along with the ever increasing reliance of technology, will present a risk to traditional banking Strength and stability business models and impact society.
Banks need to demonstrate their ability PBB & CPB review sections to survive financial stress arising from economic turmoil, and potential large scale fines and legal cases resulting Banking regulation from historic events.
They must also demonstrate they have sufficient Banks operate in an environment where regulatory change is frequent capital, liquidity and resilience as well as the ability to generate sufficient returns.
Skills and capabilities of staff Financial services companies face Ethics, culture and integrity Professional integrity is a key competition for skilled employees, in particular with specific skillsets e. g. governance consideration in the banking sector.
As the industry transforms to more digital banking, the need for such skills must satisfy the highest professional standards, avoid conflicts of interest, may become more acute.
bias, or negligence, and ensure that Our Colleagues section all stakeholders, including employees, contractors and business partners, are treated fairly and respectfully.
Our Approach review section 33 Our operating environment Employee engagement Political landscape Pay differentials and inclusion The political landscape has seen major Shareholders, employees and the Employee engagement and events such as the EU and Scottish general public have shown increasing satisfaction is highly correlated with referenda.
These may produce concerns about the inequality in pay overall performance.
A key part of this uncertainty and knock-on effects in large companies between senior is the inclusion agenda and the need to economic confidence and the executives and the general workforce.
to foster corporate cultures that value regulatory environment.
Our Colleagues section diversity, teamwork, quality leadership and training.
Our Colleagues section Changing customer needs Trust in the banking sector Customer needs are changing and Trust in traditional large UK banks different types of customer often have Operational competence often lags behind smaller competitors significantly different banking needs.
Banks need to proactively identify and and new market entrants.
Rebuilding In order to be attractive and useful, manage risks and efficiencies in their trust remains a key challenge.
financial products and services need operations and facilities.
Delivering to fit in with customers lives and be appropriate digital infrastructure is flexible to differing levels of digital and important to ensure a technically-able financial understanding.
bank that supports its long-term future.
PBB, CPB & NWM review sections Providing this requires investment and Support for enterprise resources, at a time when banks must A healthy economy needs a pipeline stay cost-competitive, and manage of new and growing businesses potential future pensions liabilities.
to spur innovation and growth.
Climate and environment Entrepreneurs, start-ups and small The transition to a low carbon and PBB, CPB & NWM review sections businesses require particular support resource-efficient future is underway, in terms of financing and building affecting almost every sector of market share.
Local environmental Conduct considerations such as air quality, CPB & NWM review sections Banks remain focused on putting in flooding and natural habitats also place measures to prevent conduct remain a major concern.
At the same time, historic Agreement provides a framework by conduct failings, such as RMBS, UK infrastructure which the world will seek to prevent continue to have major financial and The UK has a significant need for dangerous climate change but further reputational impacts.
new infrastructure, such as energy, challenges remain.
transport and communications CPB & NWM review sections systems.
Finance is one of the requirements for providing this, meaning banks have a key role.
Health of the UK and global economy Financial capability CPB & NWM review sections UK and global economic prospects Enabling customers to manage money are clouded by elevated uncertainty well day to day and plan for the future, and lower for longer interest rates.
increases their resilience, and their This also impacts other risks including Social inequality and poverty ability to manage the financial impact the scale of UK pensions liabilities.
Poverty and inequality are of major life events.
This in turn helps Banks have to cope with a historically associated with many societal customers avoid falling into financial low interest rate and higher event risk problems and can contribute to difficulty and can improve their well environment, with knock-on impacts to challenges in accessing financial being.
products and services, resulting in Our Colleagues section reduced Financial Inclusion.
PBB review section 34 In 2016 we diverted 96% of waste from Our direct landfill in the UK, 70% globally.
An increase in waste volume compared environmental with 2015 is partly attributed to the footprint destruction of outdated paper records which are recycled along with all paper RBS is committed to reducing the waste.
Removing paper hand towels from environmental impact of serving our 800 branches and 22 offices has helped customers.
We outperformed our 2020 keep waste volume down.
Sending food targets of 20% carbon, 5% water and waste to anaerobic digestion and coffee 50% paper reduction during 2016 and waste for bio-fuel improves our recycling we will increase our ambition in these rate.
Paper usage is linked to use of digital areas during 2017.
Our decrease in total channels with approximately 55% of carbon emissions is largely attributable personal and business banking customers to a 15% per full time equivalents receiving online statements and a reduction in energy consumption since reduction in internal print of 20% in 2016.
We are containing growth in Data Centre energy consumption through We collaborate with colleagues and legacy IT decommissions and energy suppliers to improve performance in reduction initiatives.
Our Innovation Gateway of property space and investment in crowdsourcing community is a building management systems in 384 partnership with corporates and branches and 17 offices are examples of universities, now sourcing new solutions a number of projects delivering energy from 1,300 SMEs.
We buy renewable electricity these new products in our facilities since in the UK, reflected in our market-based 2014 with notable success in reducing CO e emissions figure.
We engage colleagues 2 travel emissions are being driven down via bank wide Determined to Make a by a reduction in long haul flights, a focus Difference campaigns.
In 2016, 1,200 on associated cost and improved virtual colleagues logged over 2500 activities to collaboration tools.
reduce our environmental impact, via our Carbon emissions disclosure green reward app JUMP.
Assessment Parameters Baseline year for total reported CO e 2 2014 emissions tonnes Scope 1, 2 and 3 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All entitites and facilities either owned or under operational control Emission factor data source DEFRA 2016, eGRID 2015 Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised edition 2004 Materiality threshold Materiality was set at group level at 5% Intensity ratio Emissions per full time employee FTE Limited assurance provided by Ernst & Young LLP over total reported C0 e emissions tonnes 2 Independent assurance Scope 1, 2 and 3 location based emissions Change 2011 to Change 2014 to GHG Emissions 2011 2014 2015 2016 2016 % 2016 % Location-based CO e emissions 2 626,851 530,467 464,107 396,133 -37% -25% Scope 1, 2 and Business Travel tonnes Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 43,361 35,433 34,175 29,408 -32% -17% 2 Scope 2 Market-based CO e 2 512,958 418,918 377,779 165,553 -68% -60% emissions tonnes Scope 2 Location-based CO e 2 442,510 388,918 333,676 275,319 -38% -29% emissions tonnes Scope 1 & Scope 2 Location-based 4.91 4.33 4.01 3.38 -31% -22% CO e emissions per FTE tonnes 2 Scope 3 CO e Emissions from business 2 140,97 106,117 96,256 91,406 -35% -14% travel tonnes Energy Consumption GWh 1,150 968 863 754 -34% -22% 3 Water consumption m 1,613,416 1,365,545 1,349,488 1,292,019 -20% -5% Paper used tonnes 23,581 12,044 11,049 9,965 -58% -17% Waste generated tonnes 32,066 22,798 17,643 21,850 -32% -4% Percentage of waste recycled 70% 69% 66% 70% 0% 2% Notes: Scope 1: Emissions from fluorinated gas loss and fuel combustion in RBS premises vehicles.
Scope 2: Emissions from electricity, district heating and district cooling used in RBS premises.
Scope 3: Emissions associated with business travel air, rail and road by RBS employees.
Scope 3 emissions have been restated and rebaselined to include Taxis in India.
market-based emissions have been calculated using the GHG Protocol guidelines.
RBS has purchased renewable electricity that meets the Good Quality Criteria since March 2016.
Paper and business travel targets have a baseline year of 2011.
35 Our operating environment RBSs international human rights Our approach to Independent commitments are set out in our Human Rights Position Statement.
Our human rights and assurance approach is underpinned by our values modern slavery and standards.
For employees this is via The Royal Bank of Scotland Group the RBS Code of Conduct Our Code plc appointed Ernst & Young LLP to RBS takes a proactive approach to which was updated in 2016.
Our Code provide limited independent assurance upholding our commitment to respect includes a clear commitment to respect over selected sustainability content human rights.
This includes regular human rights, and the Yes Check, a within the Strategic Report the review of our policies and procedures.
tool to guide good decision-making.
Report, as at and for the period Our approach is centred on identifying Employees are consulted on key ended 31 December 2016.
The and mitigating potential human rights aspects of their working environment, assurance engagement was planned risks across our business and our and they can utilise a confidential and performed in accordance with the sphere of influence.
helpline to discuss any matters of International Standard for Assurance concern.
We are an accredited Living Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised, A main focus during 2016 has been Wage employer, and the process of Assurance Engagements Other to meet our new obligations under extending the Living Wage to our Than Audits or Reviews of Historical the Modern Slavery Act 2015 MSA, suppliers continued through 2016.
which aims to protect victims, bring perpetrators to justice and For suppliers, our Sustainable These procedures were designed to provide more effective tools for law Procurement Code sets out conclude on: enforcement.
We welcome the MSA the international human rights and its aim to eradicate forced labour commitments we expect of the The consistency of selected and human trafficking.
companies that we work with, narrative claims on sustainability including labour standards and nonwith underlying performance In accordance with the requirements discrimination.
information, and: of the MSA, our first annual statement will be published and available on our Our ESE Risk Policy applies to our The accuracy and completeness website in Spring 2017.
Ahead of this customers, and is kept under review.
of the sustainability performance we published an interim statement Alongside our sector specific risk indicators listed below: in December 2016 setting out our appetite positions we have outlined ESE approach and seeking the input of risk concerns for customers operating - V alue of attempted fraud external stakeholders.
Our policy prevented in UK identifies human rights risks and due We are taking a human rights approach diligence is carried out on clients when - N umber of cases raised via Speak to understand the impacts of our human rights risks are identified.
We Up, the banks whistleblowing operations and supply chain.
We are expect our customers to share our service also working to ensure our employees, commitment to respecting human suppliers and customers are aware of rights within their operations.
- T otal gender balance in top 3 the risks and are able to address any senior layers issues when they arise.
Our commitment to the international progress of human rights includes - C ustomer Trust score These steps include: reviewing and being a signatory of the United Nations updating our policy commitments: Global Compact since 2003, and we - % p ersonal customers who are raising awareness among employees: reaffirm our commitment to the ten digitally active targeted training to relevant principles of the Global Compact.
We employees, such as supply chain are committed to the implementation of - T otal scope 1 and 2 location based managers and relationship managers: the UN Guiding Principles on Business CO e emissions and Scope 3 2 incorporating requirements under the and Human Rights and participate with emissions from business travel MSA into our supplier sourcing process: our peers in initiatives such as the Thun and embedding MSA commitments Group and United Nations Environment - N umber of Foundation accounts within our Environment, Social and Programme Finance Initiative, to opened Ethical ESE Risk Policy and processes.
understand how these can best be Modern slavery, forced labour and applied.
We have adopted the Equator - L ending to small and medium harmful child labour are prohibited Principles, since their inception in 2003, sized enterprises SMEs across within our reputational and ESE risk to manage social and environmental England, Scotland and Wales framework, and our Sustainable risks, including human rights, in Procurement Code.
An unqualified opinion was issued and is available on rbs.
com, along with further details of the scope, respective responsibilities, work performed, limitations and conclusions.
