Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 147 EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE 1.
Right to Attend and Vote Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and section 360 b 2 of the Act, the Company specifies that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the AGM and also for the purpose of determining how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast, a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.30 pm on Monday 11 July 2016 or, in the event of any adjournment, at 6.30 pm on the date which is two days before the day of the adjourned AGM.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the AGM.
If you wish to attend the meeting in person, please bring your attendance card with you to the meeting.
Appointing Proxies If you meet the criteria set out in note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and you should have received a proxy form with this Notice.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
If you do not have a Form of Proxy and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact the Companys Registrar, Equiniti plc, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom or on 0371 384 2241 or 44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK.
Lines areopen 8.30 am to 5.30 pm UK time Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
Deadline for Appointing Proxies To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or by hand during normal business hours only by the Companys registrars, Equiniti plc, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom or electronically at www.
co. uk using the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number set out on the form s of proxy, in each case not later than 12.00 noon on Monday 11 July 2016.
If you are aCREST member, see note 5 below.
Any electronic communication sent by a shareholder to the Company or to the Registrar which is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
If you submit more than one proxy instruction, the appointment received last before the latest time for receipt will take precedence.
Completion of a form of proxy, or other instrument appointing a proxy or any CREST Proxy Instruction will not preclude a member attending and voting in person atthe AGM if he she wishes to do so.
A Vote Withheld option is provided on the form of proxy which enables a member to abstain on any particular resolution.
It should be noted that a Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes For or Against a resolution.
Nominated Persons Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him her and the member by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right, under such agreement, to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the members in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
CREST Members CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures, and to the address, described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrars, Equiniti ID RA19 by 12.00 noon on Monday 11 July 2016.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
RPC Group Plc 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Shareholder information EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE continued 6.
Corporate Representatives Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Right to Ask Questions Any member attending the AGM has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the AGM or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the AGM that the question be answered.
Documents on Display Copies of executive directors service agreements and copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours from the date of this notice until the close of the AGM Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and will be available for inspection at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
Copies of the draft amended RPC Deferred Bonus Plan DBP and PSP rules are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours from the date of this notice until the close of the AGM and will be available for inspection at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Website Publication of Audit Concerns Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act, in each case that the members propose to raise at the AGM.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Website Address A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
Total Number of Shares and voting rights As at 2 June 2016 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 303,612,870 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 303,612,870.
Communication You may not use any electronic address within the meaning of section 333 4 of the Act provided in this Notice or in any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
