Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 149 EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS Resolution 1: Receipt of Report and Accounts The business of the AGM will begin with a resolution to receive the financial statements, together with the reports of the directors and auditor, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual Report is available on the Companys website www.
com and copies will beavailable at the AGM.
Resolution 2: Approval of Directors Remuneration Report Shareholders will be requested to approve the Directors remuneration report excluding the Directors remuneration policy for the financial year ended 31 March 2016.
The Directors remuneration report is set out in full on pages 59 to 76 of the Annual Report.
Alternatively, the Directors remuneration report is obtainable on request from the Company Secretary at the registered office of the Company, or from the Companys website.
The approval of the Directors remuneration report is an advisory vote and does not affect the directors entitlement to remuneration in the future.
Resolution 3: Approval of Directors Remuneration Policy Shareholders last approved the Directors remuneration policy at the AGM held in 2014.
Whilst this remains in force for three years from the date of approval the Remuneration Committee conducted a review of the remuneration policy during the year and is now submitting a new policy for approval.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors remuneration policy which is set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 66 of the Annual Report.
This vote is a binding vote and, subject to limited exceptions, no remuneration payment or loss of office payment may be made to a prospective, current or former director unless consistent with the approved remuneration policy or otherwise specifically approved by shareholders.
If the Directors remuneration policy is approved by shareholders, all payments made to the directors and any past directors by the Company must be made in accordance with the policy unless approved by a separate shareholder resolution.
If approved, the policy will take immediate effect.
Resolution 4: Declaration of Final Dividend The directors recommend a final dividend of 12.3p per ordinary share bringing the total dividend for the year to 17.1p restated per ordinary share.
If Resolution 4 is approved by shareholders the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 will be paid on 2 September 2016 to shareholders whose names areon the register of members at the close of business on 12 August 2016.
Resolutions 5 to 11: Election and Re-election of Directors of the Company Resolutions 5 to 11 are concerned with the election and re-election of directors.
Under the Companys Articles, any director who was a director at the two preceding AGMs and who was not appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting at or since either such meeting, shall retire from office.
Retiring directors are eligible for re-election.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of the re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
Consequently, with the exception of Heike van fide Kerkhof who joined the Board on 24 November 2015 and is therefore seeking election at the AGM, all of the remaining directors will retire from office and, being eligible, submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
The biographical details for each director, Committee membership and other relevant information can be found on pages 44 and 45 of the Annual Report.
Details of the directors service contracts or terms of appointment are described in the Directors remuneration report on page 66 and the performance evaluation procedure is described in the Corporate governance report on page 52 of the Annual report.
Following individual formal performance evaluation by the Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, by the Senior Independent Director, the Board confirms that the performance of each director submitting themselves for re-election or election continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role and recommends them for re-election.
The knowledge and experience and contribution made by each director to the Board is set out below: Jamie Pike, Chairman, has made a significant contribution to the Group as a result of his experience in strategic and operational improvement and development in a range of UK and international businesses and through his effective leadership of the Board.
Pim Vervaat, Chief Executive, joined the Board in 2007 with experience in various financial roles in the Netherlands, UK, Germany and Belgium.
He acceded to the role of Chief Executive on 1 May 2013.
He has strong strategic, business improvement and financial skills and has been instrumental in the formulation and the implementation of the Groups Vision 2020 strategy.
Lynn Drummond, independent non-executive director, joined the Board on 16 July 2014 has experience in the pharmaceutical sector and in investment banking which is particularly valuable to the Company as it aims to implement the Vision 2020 focused growth strategy including the development of the Groups pharmaceutical presence.
Simon Kesterton, Group Finance Director, who joined the Board on 1 April 2013 makes a valuable contribution to the Board as a result of his financial and commercial skills gained from operating in a competitive international manufacturing environment.
He has extensive experience in leading acquisitions and took a lead role in the negotiations and due diligence for the acquisition of Ace.
Martin Towers, Senior Independent Director, is a chartered accountant with extensive financial and managerial experience as finance director of a variety ofbusinesses and has made a considerable contribution to the Company in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
RPC Group Plc 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Shareholder information EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS continued Godwin Wong, non-executive director, was a director and adviser to Ace Corporation Holdings Limited until it was acquired by RPC Group on 2 June 2014.
His knowledge of doing business in China and broad international experience is valuable to the Company in developing its presence outside Europe.
He joined the Board on 16 July 2014.
Heike van fide Kerkhof, non-executive director, is Managing Director of the European business of Chemours Titanium Technologies based in Geneva, Switzerland a subsidiary of Chemours Inc.
Her engineering background and experience in strategic and business development together with her knowledge of packaging and polymer industries in the food, cosmetics, personal care and automotive markets are of great benefit to the Company.
Resolutions 12 & 13: Appointment of Auditor and fixing of Auditors Remuneration An auditor must be appointed at every AGM at which accounts are presented to the shareholders.
The Board recommends the re-appointment of  LLP and asks that the directors be granted the authority to determine the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 14: Dividend Equivalents PSP Resolution 14, if passed, will authorise the directors to amend the PSP rules to provide that if the Company makes a dividend payment or other distribution to its shareholders between the date of grant of an award and the date when that award is exercised or vests as the case may be, the Remuneration Committee may, in its absolute discretion, determine that the number of shares subject to the award shall be increased to reflect the value of the dividend which would have been paid on the shares subject to the award had such shares been held by the award holder.
The Remuneration Committee may, instead, choose to pay a cash sum equal to the gross dividend before income tax.
The Remuneration Committee may decide to treat any such dividend as reinvested in the Companys ordinary shares at the time of its payment, and compute the additional number of shares due or the amount of the cash payment accordingly.
For completeness, in addition to this, the PSP is being amended in various respects to accord with developments in best practice, including provision for a holding period and for clawback, and the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation.
All amendments are highlighted in the copy of the PSP rules that is on display as described in the explanatory notes to the Notice.
Resolution 15: Awards to French Participants in the PSP In August 2015, the French Parliament enacted the Loi Macron which would allow qualifying awards made to French participants in the PSP to benefit from potentially favourable tax treatment if various conditions are met.
No decision has yet been made as to whether or not the Company would grant awards under this regime.
However, in order to do so, French law requires specific shareholders authority.
Accordingly, Resolution 15, if passed, would authorise the directors to establish a French sub-plan, under the PSP, that meets the necessary requirements of the Loi Macron and to make grants under this sub-plan.
This authorisation would remain valid until the expiry date of the PSP in July 2018.
Any award granted under the French sub-plan would be on the same terms as the main PSP in all material respects but with such variations as are necessary to satisfy the conditions for favourable tax treatment under the Loi Macron.
Any shares issued to satisfy such awards would be counted against the existing anti-dilution limits.
Resolution 16: Authority to Allot Shares The directors of the Company may allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares only if authorised to do so by shareholders.
The authority granted at the last AGM is due to expire at this years AGM.
Accordingly, Resolution 16 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant new authorities to allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares.
If given, these authorities will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2017 or on 30 September 2017, whichever is the earlier.
Paragraph a of Resolution 16 will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 5,060,214, representing a maximum of 101,204,280 ordinary shares.
This amount represents approximately one third 33.33% of the Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 2 June 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Investment Association the IA, paragraph b of Resolution 16 will also allow directors to allot, including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a of Resolution 16, further ordinary shares in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 10,120,429, representing a maximum of 202,408,580 ordinary shares.
This amount, before any reduction, represents approximately two-thirds 66.67% of the Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 2 June 2016.
The directors have no immediate plans to make use of this authority with the exception of the issue of further ordinary shares to fulfil the Companys obligations under its various employee share option schemes and other proposed share issues that have been announced by the Company prior to the date of publication of this Notice.
However the authority gives the directors the flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.
If they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use including, where appropriate, the directors standing for re-election as recommended by the IA.
As at 2 June 2016 the Company held no treasury shares.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 151 Resolution 17: Notice of general meetings The notice period required by the Act for general meetings of the Company is at least 21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs must be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Previously, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGMs on at least 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 17 seeks the necessary shareholder approval which will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and isthought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
In order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders forthat meeting.
Resolution 18: Limited Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights The directors of the Company also require additional authority from shareholders to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares where they propose to do so for cash and otherwise than to existing shareholders pro-rata to their holdings.
The power granted at the last AGM is due to expire at this years AGM.
Accordingly, Resolution 18 will be proposed as a special resolution to grant such a power.
Apart from offers or invitations in proportion to the respective number of shares held, the power will be limited to the allotment of equity securities and sales of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,518,064 representing a maximum of 30,361,280 ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal amount represents ten per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 2 June 2016, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
If given, this power will expire on 30 September 2017 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2017, whichever is the earlier.
The figure of 10% reflects the Pre-Emption Group 2015 Statement of Principles for the disapplication of pre-emption rights the Statement of Principles.
The directors will have due regard to the Statement of Principles in relation to any exercise of this power and in particular: 1 as regards the first 5%, the directors will take account of the requirement for advance consultation and explanation before making any non-pre-emptive cash issue pursuant to this resolution which exceeds 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three year period: and 2 as regards the second 5%, the directors confirm that they intend to use this power only in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment within the meaning of the Statement of Principles from time to time which is announced contemporaneously with the issue, or which has taken place in the preceding six month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue.
Resolution 19: Purchase of Own Shares The directors consider that there may be circumstances in which it would be desirable for the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
Although the directors have no plans to make such purchases they would like to be able to act if circumstances arose in which they considered such purchases to be desirable.
Under Article 5 of the Companys Articles, authority is granted to the Company to purchase its own shares subject to the provision of the Act.
Resolution 19 proposes that the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company be renewed by special resolution.
The authority will terminate not later than 30 September 2017.
The authority is restricted to a maximum of 30,361,287 ordinary shares which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at2 June 2016.
The maximum and minimum prices are stated in this resolution.
The directors of the Company believe that it is advantageous for the Company to have this flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
In the event that shares are purchased, they may either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue would be reduced accordingly or, in accordance with the Act, be retained as treasury shares.
The Act enables companies to hold shares repurchased as treasury shares with a view to possible re-sale at a future date rather than having tocancel them.
The Company will consider holding repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 19 as treasury shares.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the 10% anti-dilution limit set by the IA.
The directors of the Company will only exercise this authority to purchase shares if they are satisfied that a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Incentive schemes for directors with earnings per share targets would be adjusted for any reduction inissued share capital.
As at 2 June 2016, the total number of options over shares that were outstanding under all of the Companys share option plans was 6,066,318, which if exercised would represent 2.0% of the Companys issued share capital at that date.
If the Company were to purchase its own shares to the fullest possible extent of its authority from shareholders existing and being sought, this number of outstanding options could potentially represent 2.2% of the issued share capital ofthe Company.
