Royal Mail plc | Forward-looking statements Disclaimers This document contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and certain of the Groups plans, objectives, assumptions, projections, expectations or beliefs with respect to these items.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, will, should, expects, believes, intends, plans, potential, targets, goal or estimates.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the Groups actual financial condition, performance and results to differ materially from the plans, goals, objectives and expectations set out in the forwardlooking statements included in this document.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future and are inherently unpredictable.
Such forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, among other things: changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the regulatory regime within which the Group operates: changes in interest and exchange rates: the impact of competitive products and pricing: the occurrence of major operational problems: the loss of major customers: undertakings and guarantees relating to pension funds: contingent liabilities: the impact of legal or other proceedings against, or which otherwise affect, the Group: and risks associated with the Groups overseas operations.
All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this document or made subsequently, which are attributable to the Group or any persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
No assurance can be given that the forward-looking statements in this document will be realised: actual events or results may differ materially as a result of risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Subject to compliance with applicable law and regulation, the Company does not intend to update the forward-looking statements in this document to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, and does not undertake any obligation to do so.
154 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information This page is intentionally left blank Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 155 Origins of a national icon Royal Mail has a rich Postboxes: and varied history, The first pillar box was erected in characterised by a Guernsey in the Channel Islands in 1852 the start as an experiment.
The idea of postboxes tradition of service and was introduced by novelist, Anthony Trollope, after he saw them in France.
The innovation spanning boxes proved such a success that they of a legend were soon introduced on the mainland.
For five centuries, our postal network has been connecting families and friends, powering business and driving innovation across the country.
It is said that the early postboxes were In 1516, Henry VIII knighted Brian Tuke, made tall enough so that a man wearing the first Master of the Posts.
This act a top hat could use them.
was the catalyst for the creation of the Royal Mail postal service, as we know it today.
Tuke had the influence and authority to establish key post towns across the country and set up a formal postal network.
Since its royal beginnings, the postal service has continued to deliver the nations mail for 500 years, under 21 Right from their introduction, postboxes have carried the insignia, or cipher, of different monarchs and through two the reigning monarch at the time of World Wars, employing hundreds of placement.
Queen Elizabeth II is the most common cipher, featuring on more than thousands of people along the way.
Celebrating 500 years of 60 per cent of current postboxes.
To mark this momentous anniversary, service and innovation Royal Mail has launched a special To mark this momentous anniversary, websitefeaturing the people, objects Royal Mail has launched a special website and events that played a key role showcasing the people, objects and inthe development of the worlds events that played a key role in the firstnational postal service.
Visit: development of the worlds www.
com 500years Blue airmail postboxes were introduced in first national postal service.
1930 and were designed to advertise the Within the pages of this report you will new air mail service.
By 1936, there were 139 airmail boxes in London and 174 in Discover more by visiting our website: find then and now image captions other towns and cities around the country.
com 500years showcasing how Royal Mail has evolved over the last 500 years.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements Celebrating 2015-16 500 Years of Royal Mail Royal Mail, the cruciform, Parcelforce Worldwide and the Parcelforce Worldwide logo are trade marks of Royal Mail Group Limited.
The GLS arrow logo is a trade mark of General Logistics Systems Germany GmbH & Co. OHG.
Annual Report 2015-16 Royal Mail Group Limited 2016.
