Financial statements Other information Jargon buster Below is a simple explanation of some of the key technical terms used within this report.
Term Definition Selling insurance through a partners distribution network, usually to a group of similar customers, Affinity e. g. store-card holders, alumni groups, unions and utility company customers.
Claims incurred during the period expressed as a percentage of earned premiums, including claims handling Attritional expenses but excluding claims incurred in respect of large losses, weather events and subsidence losses.
loss ratio Capital The money invested in the Group.
This includes the money invested by shareholders and profits retained within the Group.
Claims Frequency Average number of claims per policy over the year.
The administrative cost of processing a claim salary costs, costs of running claims centres, etc.
and allocated Claims Handling Expenses share of the costs of head office units.
Not the cost of the claim itself.
Percentage of Net Earned Premiums which is paid out in claims and Claims Handling expenses.
Claims Ratio Loss Ratio Reserve established by the Group to reflect the estimated cost of claims payments and claims handling Claims Reserve expenses that we estimate we will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance cover we have Provision for Losses and provided up until the reporting date.
Loss Adjustment Expenses Average cost of claims incurred over the period.
Claims Severity The sum of the Claims Ratio, Expense Ratio and Commission Ratio.
Combined Operating Measures how much we pay out in claims and expenses for each unit of net premium earned.
Ratio COR A COR of less than 100 percent indicates that we are writing profitable business.
Calculated as: Net Incurred Claims Expenses Commissions % Net Earned Premiums Commission An amount paid to an intermediary such as a broker for generating business.
Ratio of net commission costs to Net Earned Premiums.
Commission Ratio Current Year Result The underwriting profit or loss earned from business for which protection has been provided in the current financial period.
Percentage of Net Earned Premiums which is paid out in operating expenses, e. g. salaries, premises costs, etc.
Expense Ratio The ratio does not include claims related or investment expenses but can include or exclude commissions.
A measurement of risk we are exposed to through the premiums we have written.
For example, in motor Exposure insurance one vehicle insured for one year is one unit of exposure.
The regulatory authority with responsibility for the conduct of the UK financial services industry.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA Gross Written Premium Total premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been paid.
GWP A reserve for accidents or incidents which we have provided cover for that have occurred but which IBNR have not yet been reported to us.
Incurred but Not Reported Large losses Single claims or events with a net cost of 500k or higher.
The proportion of premium written, net of the cost of associated reinsurance, that represents what Net Earned Premium we have changed to provide insurance cover during the period.
NEP 188 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Term Definition The total claims cost incurred in the period less any share to be paid by reinsurers.
It includes both claims Net Incurred Claims NIC payments and movements in claims reserves, as well as claims handling expenses in the period.
Premium written or processed in the period, irrespective of whether it has been paid, less the amount Net Written Premium due to reinsurance.
NWP Prior Year Result Profit or loss generated by changing the estimate for claims incurred in a previous year to a better or worse level than the previous estimated cost.
Property and Casualty Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, floods, storms and other specified risks.
Casualty insurance primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to other people P&C or damage to the property of others.
Non-Life Insurance or General Insurance The regulatory authority with responsibility for the prudential regulation and supervision of the UK financial Prudential Regulation services industry.
Authority PRA Rate The price of a unit of insurance based on a standard risk for one year.
Actual premium charged to the policyholder may differ from the rate due to individual risk characteristics and marketing discounts.
The practice whereby we transfer part or all of the risk we have accepted to another insurer the reinsurer.
Reinsurance Solvency II New capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry which commenced in 2016.
Establishes a revised set of EU wide capital requirements and risk management standards.
Scrip Dividend Where shareholders choose to receive the dividend in the form of additional shares rather than cash.
The Group would issue new shares to meet the scrip demand.
Tangible Net Asset Value The tangible value of the Group calculated by subtracting our total liabilities including loan capital from our total tangible assets total assets less goodwill and intangibles.
TNAV A measure of performance based on the overall value to shareholders of their investment in the Group over Total Shareholder Return a period of time.
Includes the movement in the share price and dividends paid, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
A measure of the underlying profits the Group earns, adjusted for profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, Underlying Return on reorganisation and integration costs and business acquisition costs, relative to opening tangible funds Tangible Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders.
This is a measure of how well the Group has done excluding its investment performance and is calculated as: Underwriting Result NEP Net Incurred Claims including Claims Handling Expenses Expenses Commissions Unearned Premium The portion of a premium that relates to future periods, for which protection has not yet been provided, irrespective of whether the premium has been paid or not.
Weather losses Weather events with a net cost of 500k or higher.
Rate of return on an investment in percentage terms.
Yield The dividend payable on a share expressed as a percentage of the market price.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 189
