Financial statements Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Parent Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and Parent Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors and Corporate Governance Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements on pages 109 to 113, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Parent Company: and The Strategic Report on pages 4 to 41, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces.
Signed by order of the Board Stephen Hester Scott Egan Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer 22 February 2017 22 February 2017 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103
