SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Cautionary statement This document does not constitute an offer to sell or issue or thesolicitation of an offer to buy or acquire ordinary shares inthe capital of SABMiller plc the company or any other securities of the company or its subsidiaries or associates in any jurisdiction or an inducement to enter into investment activity.
This document is intended to provide information to shareholders.
Itshould not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
This document includes forward-looking statements with respect to certain of SABMiller plcs plans, current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
These statements contain the words anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, expect and words of similar meaning.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding the companys financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations including development plans and objectives relating to thecompanys products and services are forward-looking statements.
Suchforward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed orimplied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the companys present and future business strategies and the environment in which the company will operate in the future.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this document.
Factors which may cause differences between actual results and those expected or implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the outcome of the proposed transaction with Anheuser-Busch InBev SA NV: material adverse changes in the economic and business conditions in the markets in which SABMiller operates: increased competition in theglobal brewing and beverages industry: changes in consumer preferences: changes to the regulatory environment: and uctuations inforeign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reect any change in the companys expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The past business and financial performance of SABMiller plc is not to be relied on as an indication of its future performance.
196 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 The paper used in the report contains 75% recycled content, all of which is sourced from fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process ECF.
Printed in the UK by CPI Colour, a CarbonNeutral company.
Both Designed and produced by manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certied.
Registered office SABMiller House Church Street West Woking Surrey England GU21 6HS Telephone 44 1483 264000 www.
