FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Definitions Financial definitions Group net producer revenue NPR This comprises group revenue less excise duties and other similar taxes, Adjusted earnings together with the groups share of excise duties and other similar taxes Adjusted earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings as from associates and joint ventures.
dened below for the amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software, exceptional integration and restructuring costs, Headline earnings and other items which have been treated as exceptional but not included Headline earnings are calculated by adjusting profit for the year above or as headline earnings adjustments together with the groups attributable to owners of the parent for items in accordance with the share of associates and joint ventures adjustments for similar items.
South African Circular 2 2015 entitled Headline Earnings.
Such items The tax and non-controlling interests in respect of these items are include exceptional impairments of non-current assets and profits or also adjusted.
losses on disposals of non-current assets and their related tax and non-controlling interests.
This also includes the groups share of Adjusted EBITDA associates and joint ventures adjustments on a similar basis.
This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation, and includes the groups share of MillerCoors Interest cover operating profit on a similar basis.
This is the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net finance costs.
Adjusted net finance costs Net debt This comprises net finance costs excluding any exceptional finance This comprises gross debt including borrowings, nancing derivative charges or income.
financial instruments, overdrafts and finance leases net of cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts.
Adjusted profit before tax This comprises EBITA less adjusted net finance costs and less the Organic information groups share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs Organic results and volumes exclude the first 12 months results and on a similar basis.
volumes relating to acquisitions and the last 12 months results and volumes relating to disposals.
Constant currency Constant currency results have been determined by translating the Total Shareholder Return TSR local currency denominated results for the year ended 31 March TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided at the exchange rates for the prior year.
for its shareholders, reecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
EBITA This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, and Sales volumes amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software and In the determination and disclosure of sales volumes, the group includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries and profit on a similar basis.
its equity accounted percentage of all associates and joint ventures volumes.
Contract brewing volumes are excluded from volumes EBITA margin % although revenue from contract brewing is included within group This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group net revenue.
Volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
This measure of producer revenue.
volumes is used for lager volumes, soft drinks volumes, other alcoholic EBITDA beverage volumes and beverage volumes and is used in the segmental This comprises EBITA as dened above plus depreciation and analyses as it more closely aligns with the consolidated group net amortisation of computer software, including the groups share producer revenue and EBITA disclosures.
of associates and joint ventures depreciation and amortisation of computer software.
KPI definitions how we measure EBITDA margin % Total shareholder return TSR in excess of the median of peer This is calculated by expressing EBITDA as a percentage of group net group over five-year periods producer revenue.
TSR performance is measured by taking the percentage growth in our TSR over the five-year period to the date aligned with the related Effective tax rate % measurement date of value share 2014: performance share awards The effective tax rate is calculated by expressing tax before tax on for the excom, and deducting the percentage growth in the TSR of the exceptional items and on amortisation of intangible assets excluding median of our peer group over the same period.
computer software, including the groups share of associates and joint ventures tax on a similar basis, as a percentage of adjusted profit Growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS before tax.
Growth in adjusted EPS is measured by comparing the adjusted EPS for the year with that of the prior year.
Adjusted EPS is measured using Free cash ow adjusted earnings divided by the basic number of shares in issue.
This comprises net cash generated from operating activities less cash Adjusted earnings are measured using the denition above.
paid for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, net investments in existing associates and joint ventures in both Growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS constant currency cases only where there is no change in the groups effective ownership Growth in adjusted EPS compared with the prior year is measured on percentage and dividends paid to non-controlling interests plus cash a constant currency basis as dened above.
Adjusted EPS is measured received from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible using adjusted earnings divided by the basic number of shares in issue.
Adjusted earnings are measured using the denition above.
Group revenue Free cash ow This comprises revenue together with the groups share of revenue Free cash ow is measured using the denition above.
from associates and joint ventures.
192 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Proportion of our total lager volume from markets in which we Non-financial definitions have no.
2 national market share positions AB InBev Lager volumes generated in markets where we have a number one or Anheuser-Busch InBev SA NV number two national beer market share position divided by total lager volumes.
Lager volumes are measured as dened on page 192.
Altria Altria Group, Inc our largest shareholder.
Proportion of group EBITA from developing economies EBITA generated in developing economies divided by group EBITA BevCo Ltd before corporate costs.
Developing A holding company of the Santo Domingo Group, our second largest economies are as dened by the International Monetary Fund IMF.
Organic growth in total beverage volumes Corporate Governance Code Organic growth in total beverage volumes is measured by comparing The UK Corporate Governance Code, as adopted by the Financial total beverage volumes in the year with those in the prior year excluding Reporting Council.
the effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is dened Direct economic value generated on page 192.
Total beverage volumes are measured as dened on Revenue plus interest and dividend receipts, royalty income, and page 192. proceeds of sales of assets in accordance with guidance by the Global Group net producer revenue growth organic, constant currency Reporting Initiative GRI EC1.
Growth in group net producer revenue compared with the prior year is Economy segment measured on a constant currency basis as dened on page 192 and Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the standard excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information 100, brands with a weighted average market price which fall below an is dened on page 192.
Group net producer revenue is dened on index of 90 form the economy segment.
Normally, all brands in this page 192. segment will be local brands.
Net producer revenue growth in premium brands constant Global brands currency SABMillers global brands are Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller Genuine Growth in subsidiary net producer revenue from sales of premium Draft, Miller Lite, Pilsner Urquell and Grolsch.
Their volumes and NPR brands compared with the prior year is measured on a constant are measured on a subsidiary basis, excluding home markets.
currency basis as dened on page 192.
Premium brands are those in the premium segment as dened below.
Like-for-like denition in China The like-for-like comparison in China is on a constant currency and EBITA growth organic, constant currency underlying basis consistent with the prior year, excluding the EBITA growth compared with the prior year is measured on a constant reclassication undertaken by our associate, CR Snow.
currency basis as dened on page 192 and excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is dened on page 192.
Mainstream segment EBITA is dened on page 192.
Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the standard 100, the mainstream segment is formed of brands with a weighted EBITA margin progression organic, constant currency average market price which fall into the 90-109 band.
Mainstream brands Progression in EBITA margin compared with the prior year is measured tend to be local.
on a constant currency basis as dened on page 192 and excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is dened on PET page 192.
EBITA margin is dened on page 192.
PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which is used for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
Hectolitres of water used at our breweries per hl of lager produced PwC Water used at our breweries divided by the volume of lager produced.
All consolidated subsidiaries are included on a 100% basis together with Premium segment our equity accounted percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
Taking the leading brands in the most popular pack type as the standard Fossil fuel emissions from energy used at our breweries per hl 100, brands with a weighted average market price which have an of lager produced index of 110 form the premium segment.
The premium segment Fossil fuel emissions are measured by the total amount of carbon comprises local, regional and global brands.
dioxide CO2e in kilograms released to the atmosphere by our brewery STRATE operations divided by the volume of lager produced.
The total amount of South Africas Central Securities Depository, which exists to allow share CO2e is the sum of direct emissions produced by the combustion of fuel transactions in South Africa to be settled electronically.
e. g. coal, oil, gas and indirect emissions from the use of electricity and steam.
Emissions are calculated using the internationally recognised Underlying WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
All consolidated businesses Where underlying is used in the description of business performance, are included on a 100% basis together with our equity accounted this refers to performance on an organic, constant currency basis.
percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
Organic and constant currency are both dened on page 192.
Cumulative financial benets from our cost and efficiency programme Cumulative annual cost savings as a result of the roll out of global business services organisation and the expansion of the scope of our supply chain activities.
