FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The group has yet to assess the full impact of the following standards The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the and amendments to existing standards mandatory for the groups groups financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2017 or later periods, consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
which have not been early adopted.
1 a Basis of preparation IFRS 9, Financial instruments, is effective from 1 January 2018 : The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, is effective from 1 prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 1 January 2018 : and 1 as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and IFRS 16, Leases, is effective from 1 January 2019. the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
1 Not yet endorsed by the EU.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost c significant judgements and estimates convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often assets and liabilities, and post-retirement assets and liabilities as required where the choice of specic policy, assumption or accounting described in the accounting policies below.
The financial statements estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported results or net have been prepared on a going concern basis.
position of the group, should it later be determined that a different choice be more appropriate.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to Management considers the following to be areas of significant exercise its judgement in the process of applying the groups accounting judgement and estimation for the group due to greater complexity policies.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement.
The group has reconsidered the significant judgements and estimates applied, b Recent accounting developments in particular the determination of exceptional items and share-based i New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing compensation, where it has not assumed the completion of the standards adopted by the group AB InBev transaction.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been adopted by the group as of 1 April 2015 and which have had no material i Impairment reviews impact on the consolidated results of operations or financial position of Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the relevant the group.
Impairment reviews in respect of the relevant CGUs, and also in respect of the investments in joint ventures and Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benets on dened benefit plans: associates, are performed at least annually or more regularly if events IFRIC 21, Levies: indicate that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based on future Annual improvements to IFRS 2012: and cash ows discounted using the weighted average cost of capital for the Annual improvements to IFRS 2013. relevant country with terminal values calculated applying a long-term ii New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing growth rate.
The future cash ows which are based on business standards that are not yet effective and have not been early forecasts, the long-term growth rates and the discount rates used are adopted by the group dependent on management estimates and judgements.
Future events The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing could cause the assumptions used in these impairment reviews to standards mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on change with a consequent adverse impact on the results and net or after 1 April 2016 are not expected to have a material impact on the position of the group.
Details of the estimates used in the impairment consolidated results of operations or financial position of the group.
reviews for the year are set out in note 10.
Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements on the ii Taxation disclosure initiative is effective from 1 January 2016: The group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes in Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 12, numerous jurisdictions.
significant judgement is required in determining Disclosure of interests in other entities, and IAS 28, Investments in the provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by its nature complex, associates and joint ventures, on investment entities applying the and cannot be nally determined until a formal resolution has been 1 consolidation exemption, are effective from 1 January 2016. reached with the relevant tax authority which may take several years Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, on acquisition of an to conclude.
Amounts provided are accrued based on managements interest in a joint operation, is effective from 1 January 2016: interpretation of country specic tax laws and the likelihood of Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, and IAS 38, settlement.
Actual liabilities could differ from the amount provided which Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation, are effective could have a consequent adverse impact on the results and net position from 1 January 2016: of the group.
Further significant judgement is required in determining Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, and IAS 41, whether a deferred tax asset is recoverable, and thus recognised.
Agriculture, regarding bearer plants, are effective from 1 January This is based on managements expectations with regard to taxable 2016: temporary differences and forecasts of future taxable profits.
Amendment to IAS 27, Separate financial statements, is effective from 1 January 2016: and Annual improvements to IFRS 2014, are effective from 1 January 2016.
108 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies continued Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income iii Business combinations and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in On the acquisition of a company or business, a determination of the preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the useful eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment life of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired is ofthe asset transferred.
performed, which requires the application of management judgement.
Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory balance Future events could cause the assumptions used by the group to change sheet date of 31 December.
These are consolidated using management which could have a significant impact on the results and net position prepared information on a basis coterminous with the companys of the group.
iv Exceptional items ii Associates Exceptional items are expense or income items recorded in a period Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest and which have been determined by management as being material by their over which the group has directly or indirectly significant inuence, where size or incidence and are presented separately within the results of the significant inuence is the ability to inuence the financial and operating group.
The determination of which items are disclosed as exceptional policies of the entity.
items will affect the presentation of profit measures including EBITA and adjusted earnings per share, and requires a degree of judgement.
Details The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory balance sheet date relating to exceptional items reported during the year are set out in note 4. of 30 June.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, this company is included based on financial statements drawn up to the previous v Share-based compensation 31December, but taking into account any changes in the subsequent Accounting for share-based compensation requires certain assumptions period from 1 January to 31 March that would materially affect the to be made in order to determine the amounts to be recognised in the results.
All other associates are included on a coterminous basis.
income statement in accordance with IFRS 2.
The income statement charge spreads the fair value of each award at the grant date over the iii Joint ventures vesting period on a straight-line basis, after considering an estimate of The group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and the share awards that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the level of determined them to be joint ventures.
vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative Joint ventures are contractual arrangements which the group has charge recognised immediately.
The completion of the proposed entered into with one or more parties to undertake an economic activity ABInBev transaction has not been assumed in determining the extent that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed and timing of the vesting of awards.
The fair value at the date of grant sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only when is calculated by various binomial model calculations and Monte Carlo decisions relating to the relevant activities require the unanimous simulations which require various management assumptions including, consent of the parties sharing the control.
inter alia, forfeiture rates, dividend yield, volatility, and risk-free interest rates.
Details of the assumptions used in determining fair values of The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of associates grants in the year are set out in note 25. and joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method from the date significant inuence or joint control commences to the date it d Segmental reporting ceases based on present ownership interests.
Operating segments reect the management structure of the group and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based The group recognises its share of associates and joint ventures on group net producer revenue and EBITA by the groups chief operating post-tax results as a one line entry before profit before taxation in decision maker, dened as the executive directors.
The group is focused the income statement and its share of associates and joint ventures geographically, and while not meeting the denition of a reportable equity movements as one line entries under each of items of other segment, the group reports separately as a segment Corporate and in comprehensive income that will not be reclassied to profit or loss, the prior year South Africa: Hotels and Gaming as this provides useful and items of other comprehensive income that may be reclassied additional information.
Segmental performance is reported after the to profit or loss, in the statement of comprehensive income.
specic apportionment of attributable head ofce costs.
When the groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been e Basis of consolidation reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its interest SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated inthe associate or joint venture, the group only provides for additional in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiaries, to fund such losses, or make payments on behalf of the associate or associates and joint ventures owned by the company.
Where the investment in an associate or joint venture is disposed, the investment ceases to be equity accounted.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company.
Control is where iv Transactions with non-controlling interests the company has power to vary the returns from its investment in the Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions entity and exposure to the variability of those returns.
Where the with equity owners of the group.
For purchases from non-controlling companys interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the share interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant attributable to outside shareholders is reected in non-controlling share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary interests.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling the date control commences until the date control ceases.
interests are also recorded in equity where there is no loss of control.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business, the results of the business are included in the groups results up to the effective date of disposal.
The profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging the amount of any related goodwill to the extent that it has not previously been taken to the income statement.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued iii Overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures v Reduction in interests One-off items in the income and cash ow statements of overseas When the group ceases to have control, joint control or significant subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures expressed in currencies other inuence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of exchange value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items are translated at loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant reporting period.
subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are translated at closing joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, certain amounts previously rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
All translation exchange recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together are accounted for as if the group had directly disposed of the related with differences between income statements translated at average and assets or liabilities.
This may mean that certain amounts previously closing rates are recognised as a separate component of equity.
For recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassied to profit these purposes net assets include loans between group companies that or loss.
form part of the net investment, for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
When a foreign operation is If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant disposed of, any related exchange differences in equity are reclassied inuence is retained, or if the ownership interest in a joint venture is tothe income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
reduced but joint control is retained, only the proportionate share of the carrying amount of the investment and of the amounts previously Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassied to profit entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and orloss where appropriate.
translated at the closing rate.
f Foreign exchange iv Hyperinationary economies i Foreign exchange translation In hyperinationary economies, when translating the results of operations Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities into US dollars, adjustments are made to local currency denominated are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment non-monetary assets, liabilities, income statement and equity accounts in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated toreect the changes in purchasing power.
South Sudan was considered financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the groups to be a hyperinationary economy in the year ended 31 March 2016.
The key exchange rates to the US dollar used effect of ination accounting in South Sudan for the year ended 31 March in preparing the consolidated financial statements were as follows.
g Business combinations Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March i Subsidiaries 2016 2015 The acquisition method is used to account for business combinations.
Average rate The identiable net assets including intangibles are incorporated into the Australian dollar AUD 1.36 1.15 financial statements on the basis of their fair value from the effective date Colombian peso COP 2,922 2,097 of control, and the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the Czech koruna CZK 24.66 21.56 financial year are included in the groups results from that date.
Euro 0.90 0.78 On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reecting Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 3.29 2.90 conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identiable Polish zloty PLN 3.81 3.26 assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
South African rand ZAR 13.78 11.08 Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined by reference Turkish lira TRY 2.81 2.22 to market values, where available, or by reference to the current price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar obligations entered Closing rate into, or by discounting expected future cash ows to present value, Australian dollar AUD 1.31 1.31 Colombian peso COP 3,022 2,576 using either market rates or the risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected Czech koruna CZK 23.76 25.59 future cash ows.
Euro 0.88 0.93 The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 3.31 3.10 given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the Polish zloty PLN 3.73 3.80 date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups estimate of the fair South African rand ZAR 14.77 12.13 value of any deferred consideration payable.
Acquisition-related costs Turkish lira TRY 2.82 2.60 are expensed as incurred.
Where the business combination is achieved in stages and results in a change in control, the acquisition date fair The average exchange rates have been calculated based on the average value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is of the exchange rates during the relevant year which have been weighted remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
according to the phasing of revenue of the groups businesses.
Where the business combination agreement provides for an adjustment ii Transactions and balances to the cost that is contingent on future events, the consideration The financial statements for each group company have been prepared transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from onthe basis that transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in their a contingent consideration arrangement.
On an acquisition by acquisition functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the basis, the group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree transaction.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date with of the acquirees net assets.
the resultant translation differences being included in operating profit in the income statement other than those arising on financial assets and liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs and those which are deferred in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary assets such as equity investments classied as available for sale assets are included in other comprehensive income.
110 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies continued ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part ii Associates and joint ventures of a business combination On acquisition the investment in associates and joint ventures is Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor licensing recorded initially at cost.
Subsequently, the carrying amount is increased arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at a fair value or decreased to recognise the groups share of the associates and joint representing the remaining contractual period with an assumption about ventures income and expenses after the date of acquisition less any the expectation that such a contract will be renewed, together with a impairment losses.
Fair values reecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed Acquired licences or contracts are amortised.
In respect of licences or to the groups share of identiable assets including intangibles, liabilities contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the period for which and contingent liabilities acquired.
The consideration transferred is the group has exclusive rights to these assets or income streams.
measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued iii Customer lists and distributor relationships recognised and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of the acquisition, and also aspart of a business combination includes the groups estimate of the fair value of any deferred The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists and consideration payable.
These are recognised as intangible assets and The date significant inuence or joint control commences is not are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream attributable necessarily the same as the closing date or any other date named to these lists or relationships.
Acquired customer lists or distributor relationships are amortised.
iii Goodwill In respect of contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the period for which the group has the benefit of these assets.
consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest iv Computer software in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identiable of property, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the as an intangible asset.
acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the groups share of identiable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the of the consideration, the difference is recognised immediately in the costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs associated income statement.
with the production of identiable and unique internally generated software controlled by the group that will probably generate economic Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed for benets exceeding costs beyond one year are capitalised.
Direct costs impairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identied is recognised include software development employment costs including those of immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
contractors used, capitalised interest and an appropriate portion of The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint overheads.
Capitalised computer software, licence and development ventures is included in the carrying value of the investment in the costs are amortised over their useful economic lives of between three associate or joint venture.
h Intangible assets Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation on software programmes are expensed as incurred.
a straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost is usually v Research and development determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset has been Research and general development expenditure is written off in the acquired as part of a business combination.
Intangible assets acquired period in which it is incurred.
as part of a business combination are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is included within net operating Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally expenses in the income statement.
Internally generated intangibles are generated intangible assets where there is a clearly dened project, not recognised except for computer software and applied development separately identiable expenditure, an outcome assessed with costs referred to under computer software and research and reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, expected development below.
revenues exceed expected costs and the group has the resources to complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a straight-line basis Intangible assets with nite lives are amortised over their estimated over their useful lives once the project is complete.
useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where there is a triggering event.
The group regularly reviews all of its amortisation rates i Property, plant and equipment and residual values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated The directors assessment of the useful life of intangible assets is based depreciation and any impairment losses.
on the nature of the asset acquired, the durability of the products to Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition which the asset attaches and the expected future impact of competition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying on the business.
value or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only when it is i Brands probable that future economic benets associated with the specic asset Brands are recognised as an intangible asset where the brand has will ow to the group and the cost can be measured reliably.
Acquired brands are only recognised where title and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during is clear or the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the the financial period in which they are incurred.
business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identiable.
i Assets in the course of construction Acquired brands are amortised.
In respect of brands currently held the Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any amortisation period is 10 to 40 years, being the period for which the impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying group has exclusive rights to those brands, up to a maximum of assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into the appropriate category.
At this point, depreciation commences on the same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued j Advance payments made to customers principally hotels, ii Assets held under finance leases restaurants, bars and clubs Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair value are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and amortises them in the income statement over the relevant period to and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of which the customer commitment is made typically three to five years.
the lease, then depreciated over the lower of the lease term or their These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment losses.
The capital element of future obligations under the leases Where there is a volume target the amortisation of the advance is is included as a liability in the balance sheet classied, as appropriate, included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where there as a current or non-current liability.
The interest element of the lease are specic marketing activities commitments the amortisation is obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the included as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are lease term to reect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are impaired of the obligation for each financial period.
where there is objective evidence that the targets will not be achieved.
iii Returnable containers Assets held at customer premises are included within property, plant Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less any similar assets.
k Inventories Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded to write Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each the containers off over the course of their economic life.
This is typically product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, undertaken in a two stage process: asfollows.
the excess over deposit value is written down over a period of one to raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost 10 years.
netof discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and nished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus direct losses in the trade together with a design obsolescence provision costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on held to write off the deposit value over the expected container aFIFO basis.
design period which is a period of no more than 14 years from the inception of a container design.
This period is shortened where Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of the expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Costs of inventories entity to use containers for different brands.
include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on matured qualifying cash ow hedges of purchases of raw materials.
iv Depreciation No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course l Financial assets and financial liabilities of construction.
In respect of all other property, plant and equipment, Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to plus any directly attributable transaction costs, except in the case of write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of each asset over those classied at fair value through profit or loss.
For those financial its expected useful life as follows.
instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment Freehold buildings 20 50 years at each balance sheet date.
Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other term or 50 years access to economic benets.
Such assets consist of cash, equity Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset, Returnable containers non-returnable 1 14 years or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with another containers are recorded as inventory entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are derecognised Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term when the right to receive cash ows from the asset have expired or have or life of the asset been transferred and the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to transfer useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes into account benets and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash or are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments with requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial liabilities are are expected to be used.
derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, cancelled or expired.
The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference between the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary v Capitalisation of borrowing costs amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant financial Financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during the assets and liabilities are offset.
period of development or construction that necessarily take a substantial period of time to be developed for their intended use, are capitalised Interest costs are charged to the income statement in the year in up to the time of completion of the project.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net finance costs over the life of the instrument.
112 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies continued iii Available for sale investments There are four categories of financial assets and financial liabilities.
Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are Theseare described as follows.
either designated in this category or not classied as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables.
Investments i Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through in this category are included in non-current assets unless management profit or loss intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss sheet date.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction include derivative assets and derivative liabilities not designated as costs and are subsequently remeasured at fair value and tested for effective hedging instruments.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value including All gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial any related foreign exchange movements are recognised in other assets or financial liabilities within this category are recognised in the comprehensive income.
On disposal or impairment of available for sale income statement.
investments, any gains or losses in other comprehensive income are reclassied to the income statement.
Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial instruments Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on the value of which changes in response to an underlying variable, require which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are little or no initial investment and are settled in the future.
derecognised when the rights to receive cash ows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such embedded substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
derivatives need not be accounted for separately if the host contract is already fair valued: if it is not considered as a derivative if it was iv Financial liabilities held at amortised cost freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that it is closely related to Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, the host contract.
There are certain currency exemptions which the accruals, amounts owed to associates, amounts owed to joint ventures, group has applied to these rules which limit the need to account for other payables and borrowings.
certain potential embedded foreign exchange derivatives.
Trade payables if a contract is denominated in the functional currency of either party: Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently where that currency is commonly used in international trade of the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade good traded: or if it is commonly used for local transactions in an payables are analysed between current and non-current liabilities on the economic environment.
face of the balance sheet, depending on when the obligation to settle will Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current be realised.
and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, b.
Borrowings depending on when they are expected to mature.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging relationship, all and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include accrued fair value movements are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Borrowings are classied as current liabilities See note x for the groups accounting policy on hedge accounting.
unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Borrowings ii Loans and receivables classied as hedged items are subject to hedge accounting requirements Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or see note x.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
They liabilities and are included within cash and cash equivalents on the face arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to a of the cash ow statement as they form an integral part of the groups debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in cash management.
current assets, except for maturities of greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classied as non-current assets.
Loans m Impairment and receivables are initially recognised at fair value including originating This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial fees and transaction costs, and subsequently measured at amortised assets see note l, non-current assets classied as held for sale see note cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
n, and deferred tax assets see note u.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables, amounts owed by Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value of associates, amounts owed by joint ventures, accrued income and cash the non-current asset with its recoverable amount, being the higher of and cash equivalents.
the fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
Trade receivables costs of disposal is considered to be the amount that could be obtained Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently on disposal of the asset, and therefore is determined from a market measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
The recoverable amount under both calculations is determined by discounting the future post-tax cash ows generated A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there from continuing use of the cash generating unit CGU using a post-tax is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts discount rate.
For value in use, this closely approximates applying due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount of the pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash ows.
Where a potential provision is the difference between the assets carrying value and the impairment is identied using post-tax cash ows and post-tax discount present value of the estimated future cash ows discounted at the rates, the impairment review is reperformed on a pre-tax basis in order to original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in the determine the impairment loss to be recorded.
Fair value less costs of income statement.
disposal calculations are prepared on a post-tax basis, and are classied b.
Cash and cash equivalents as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents includes Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand and other short-term from the cash ows of other assets, the group estimates the recoverable highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
For the purpose of In the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents also conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are considered to be groups of includes bank overdrafts which are shown within borrowings in current assets that have separately identiable cash ows.
They also include liabilities on the balance sheet.
those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued r Revenue recognition and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more than one i Sale of goods and services income stream.
Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided to third parties and is recognised when An impairment loss is taken first against any specically impaired assets.
the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred.
Where an impairment is recognised against a CGU, the impairment isrst taken against goodwill balances and if there is a remaining loss The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because unlike value itisset against the remaining intangible and tangible assets on a added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, increases in excise are not always directly passed on to customers, and the group cannot Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal reclaim the excise where customers do not pay for product received.
The ofaprevious impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income group therefore considers excise as a cost to the group and reects it as statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the a production cost.
Consequently, any excise that is recovered in the sale asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset is price is included in revenue.
restricted to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, are irreversible.
promotional discounts, settlement discounts and after an appropriate amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes yet Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to amortisation to be issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
or depreciation are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products and waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the exception that n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale these are included within other income.
Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classied as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs ii Interest income ofdisposal.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Such assets are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continued use.
When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying amount to This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable, its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash ows at theasset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind the discount condition and when management is committed to the sale which is as interest income.
expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year iii Royalty income from date of classication.
Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with o Provisions the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, whether iv Dividend income legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment that a transfer of economic benets will be required to settle the isestablished.
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis where s Operating leases the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
The carrying Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are charged amount of the provision increases in each period to reect the passage orcredited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the of time and the unwinding of the discount and the movement is lease term.
recognised in the income statement within net finance costs.
t Exceptional items Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and Where certain expense or income items recorded in a period are material employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for future by their size or incidence, the group reects such items as exceptional operating losses.
Provisions are recognised for onerous contracts where items within a separate line on the income statement except for those the unavoidable cost exceeds the expected benefit.
exceptional items that relate to associates, joint ventures, net finance costs and tax.
Associates and joint ventures net finance costs and tax p Share capital exceptional items are only referred to in the notes to the consolidated Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly financial statements.
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity asa deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Exceptional items are also summarised in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to net finance costs and tax.
q Investments in own shares treasury and shares held by employee benefit trusts The group presents alternative earnings per share calculations on a Shares held by employee share ownership plans, employee benefit headline and adjusted basis.
The adjusted earnings per share gure trusts and in treasury are treated as a deduction from equity until the excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding shares are cancelled, reissued, or disposed.
computer software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax exceptional items in order to present an additional measure of performance for the Purchases of such shares are classied in the cash ow statement as years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Headline earnings apurchase of own shares for share trusts or purchase of own shares per share is calculated in accordance with the South African Circular fortreasury within net cash from nancing activities.
2 2015 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and u Taxation related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
114 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies continued The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
At a for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for mid-year point an accrual is maintained for the appropriate proportion current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been of the expected bonuses which would become payable at the year end.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
iv Share-based compensation Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect The group operates a variety of equity-settled share-based of all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets compensation plans.
and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial The equity-settled plans comprise share option and stock appreciation statements, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill rights plans with and without market performance conditions attached, in the case of deferred tax liabilities or from the initial recognition performance share award plans with and without market performance other than a business combination of other assets and liabilities in conditions attached and awards related to the employee element of a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme in Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an South Africa.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each asset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value of a liability award over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after considering is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in full on temporary an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
A corresponding differences arising from investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint adjustment is made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
This includes taxation Inaddition the group has granted an equity-settled share-based in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the payment to retailers in relation to the retailer element of the BBBEE extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as scheme.
Aone-off charge has been recognised based on the fair value receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future at the grant date with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The charge periods has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred income tax will notbe adjusted in the future.
is also recognised in respect of the unremitted retained earnings of The charges are based on the fair value of the awards as at the date of overseas associates and joint ventures as the group is not able to grant, as calculated by various binomial model calculations and Monte determine when such earnings will be remitted and when such additional Carlo simulations.
tax such as withholding taxes might be payable.
The charges are not reversed if the options and awards are not exercised A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore because the market value of the shares is lower than the option price recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is at the date of grant.
expected that sufficient existing taxable temporary differences will reverse in the future or there will be sufficient taxable profit available The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs against which the temporary differences including carried forward are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the periods v Pension obligations in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax The group has both dened benefit and dened contribution plans.
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of dened balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
benefit pension plans is the present value of the dened benefit v Dividend distributions obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent asaliability in the groups financial statements in the period in which actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of thedividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends declared after the future cash outows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present obligation that are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, at the balance sheet date.
and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
w Employee benets i Wages and salaries Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the income changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise statement as the employees services are rendered.
and are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued vacation pay The current service cost, the net interest cost, any past service costs, when such benets are earned and not when these benets are paid.
and the effect of any curtailments and settlements are recognised in operating costs in the income statement.
The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain milestone dates The contributions to dened contribution plans are recognised as an in a career with the group.
Such accruals are appropriately discounted to expense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are recognised reect the future payment dates at discount rates determined by reference as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions to local high-quality corporate bonds.
are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
iii profit-sharing and bonus plans The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and vi Other post-employment obligations profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benets attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The expected costs of these benets are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualied actuaries and contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected service lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains and losses SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued ii Cash ow hedges arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial Cash ow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in assumptions are recognised in full as they arise and are charged a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest rate risk to which or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period the cash ows of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
The effective in which they arise.
These obligations are valued annually by portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is designated and independent qualied actuaries.
qualies for hedge accounting is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income vii Termination benets statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassied to the income Termination benets are payable when employment is terminated before statement in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary However, where a forecasted transaction results in a non-financial asset or redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The group recognises liability, the accumulated fair value movements previously deferred in equity termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to terminating are included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benets as a iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benets falling Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either foreign due more than 12 months after balance sheet date are discounted to currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward exchange contracts present value in a similar manner to all long-term employee benets.
and cross currency swaps designated in a hedging relationship.
x Derivative financial instruments hedge accounting Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss effective are recognised in other comprehensive income.
These largely include all derivative financial instruments.
The derivative instruments used offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation of net by the group, which are used solely for hedging purposes i. e. to offset investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency translation foreign exchange, commodity price and interest rate risks, comprise reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated contracts, commodity contracts and other specic instruments as in equity are only reclassied to the income statement upon disposal of the necessary under the approval of the board.
Such derivative instruments net investment.
are used to alter the risk prole of an existing underlying exposure of the Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging group in line with the groups risk management policies.
The group also instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, matures has derivatives embedded in other contracts, primarily cross border or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and amounts foreign currency supply contracts for raw materials.
previously recorded in equity are reclassied to the income statement.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative Asimilar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a future transaction contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge accounting is discontinued whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and, if so, prospectively.
the nature of the hedging relationship.
Certain derivative instruments, while providing effective economic In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to document hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
at inception the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify instrument as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the undertaking hedging transactions.
The group is also required to document income statement.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial and demonstrate that the relationship between the hedged item and the instruments for speculative purposes.
hedging instrument will be highly effective.
This effectiveness test is y Deposits by customers reperformed at each period end to ensure that the hedge has remained Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant and will continue to remain highly effective.
and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded in respect of the The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits paid by customers of recognised assets or liabilities or a rm commitment fair value hedge : for branded returnable containers are reected in the balance sheet hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or commitments cash within current liabilities.
Any estimated liability that may arise in respect ow hedge : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations net ofdeposits for unbranded containers is shown in provisions.
z Earnings per share i Fair value hedges Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent entity, ina hedging relationship to manage the groups interest rate risk and divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue foreign exchange risk to which the fair value of certain assets and during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative offset held in the groups employee benefit trusts and in treasury during the relevant changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item theyear.
attributable to the hedged risk in the income statement in the Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities period incurred.
after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent entity, Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly effective divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue are recorded in the income statement together with the gain or loss on during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
held in the groups employee benefit trusts and in treasury during the year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding during theyear.
116 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Segmental analysis Operating segments reect the management structure of the group and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based on group NPR and EBITA by the groups chief operating decision maker, dened as the executive directors.
The group is focused geographically and, while not meeting the denition of a reportable segment, the group reports Corporate 2015: Corporate and South Africa: Hotels and Gaming as a separate segment as this provides useful additional information.
The segmental information presented below includes the reconciliation of GAAP measures presented on the face of the income statement to non-GAAP measures which are used by management to analyse the groups performance.
Income statement Group NPR EBITA Group NPR EBITA 2016 2016 2015 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 5,211 1,959 5,768 2,224 Africa 6,781 1,708 7,462 1,907 Asia Pacic 3,650 753 3,867 768 Europe 3,832 636 4,398 700 North America 4,675 865 4,682 858 Corporate 111 122 Retained operations 24,149 5,810 26,177 6,335 South Africa: Hotels and Gaming 111 32 24,149 5,810 26,288 6,367 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software group and share of associates and joint ventures 350 423 Exceptional items in operating profit group and share of associates and joint ventures 657 138 Net finance costs group and share of associates and joint ventures 579 740 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 114 157 Share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests 36 79 profit before taxation 4,074 4,830 Group revenue and group NPR including the groups share of associates and joint ventures With the exception of South Africa: Hotels and Gaming, all reportable segments derive their revenues from the sale of beverages.
Revenues are derived from a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed, with no customers being individually material.
Segmental analysis continued Operating profit and EBITA segment result The following table provides a reconciliation of operating profit to operating profit before exceptional items, and to EBITA.
EBITA comprises operating profit before exceptional items, and amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software and includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit on a similar basis.
Share of associates Share of and joint associates ventures and joint Amortisation amortisation ventures of intangible of intangible Operating operating assets assets profit before profit before excluding excluding Operating Exceptional exceptional exceptional computer computer profit items items items software software EBITA 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,873 1,873 86 1,959 Africa 923 389 1,312 381 15 1,708 Asia Pacic 463 29 434 165 153 1 753 Europe 511 511 78 21 26 636 North America 9 9 826 4 44 865 Corporate 307 196 111 111 3,454 556 4,010 1,450 279 71 5,810 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 2,110 2,110 114 2,224 Africa 1,516 45 1,471 427 9 1,907 Asia Pacic 14 452 438 142 188 768 Europe 548 548 85 22 45 700 North America 14 14 800 2 42 858 Corporate 191 69 122 122 Retained operations 3,983 476 4,459 1,454 335 87 6,335 South Africa: Hotels and Gaming 401 401 31 1 32 4,384 75 4,459 1,485 335 88 6,367 The groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit is reconciled to the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures in the income statement as follows.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Share of associates and joint ventures operating profit before exceptional items 1,450 1,485 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items in operating profit 101 63 Share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs 73 103 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 114 157 Share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests 36 79 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,126 1,083 EBITDA EBITA is reconciled to EBITDA as follows.
Segmental analysis continued Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is comprised of the following.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Subsidiaries EBITDA 5,105 5,690 Operating profit before exceptional items 4,010 4,459 Depreciation including amortisation of computer software 816 896 Amortisation excluding computer software 279 335 Groups share of MillerCoors EBITDA 1,009 987 Operating profit before exceptional items 826 800 Depreciation including amortisation of computer software 139 145 Amortisation excluding computer software 44 42 Adjusted EBITDA 6,114 6,677 Other segmental information Capital Capital expenditure expenditure excluding excluding investment Investment investment Investment activity activity Total activity activity Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 439 439 429 5 424 Africa 547 4 551 720 8 728 Asia Pacic 85 85 80 80 Europe 201 191 392 253 253 North America 301 301 15 216 231 Corporate 41 41 75 972 897 1,313 496 1,809 1,572 753 819 Capital expenditure includes additions of intangible assets excluding goodwill and property, plant and equipment.
Investment activity includes acquisitions and disposals of businesses, net investments in associates and joint ventures, purchases of shares in non-controlling interests and purchases and disposals of available for sale investments.
Geographical information The UK is the parent companys country of domicile.
Those countries which account for more than 10% of the groups total revenue and or non-current assets are considered individually material and are reported separately below.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Net operating expenses 2016 2015 US$m US$m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 4,177 4,552 Changes in inventories of nished goods and work in progress 17 57 Raw materials and consumables used 4,160 4,495 Excise duties and other similar taxes 4,938 5,596 Employee costs see note 6a 2,232 2,483 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 743 821 Containers 205 219 Other 538 602 profit on disposal of available for sale investments 1 profit on disposal of businesses 45 profit on disposal of investment in associates 403 Gain on dilution of investment in associates 2 profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 34 18 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 2 Amortisation of intangible assets 352 410 Intangible assets excluding computer software 279 335 Computer software 73 75 Other expenses 4,178 4,696 Selling, marketing and distribution costs 2,132 2,428 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 266 309 Impairment of investment in associate 372 Impairment of trade and other receivables 25 34 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 7 73 Impairment of goodwill 286 Impairment of intangible assets 6 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 68 84 Operating lease rentals plant, vehicles and systems 67 88 Transaction-related costs excluding employee-related costs 94 Research and development expenditure 4 5 Other operating expenses 1,143 1,383 Total net operating expenses by nature 16,588 18,089 Other income 209 343 Revenue received from royalties 37 47 Dividends received from investments 1 Other operating income 172 295 Net operating expenses 16,379 17,746 Foreign exchange differences recognised in the profit for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value under IAS39, were a loss of US$34 million 2015: US$25 million.
The following fees were paid to a number of different accounting rms as auditors of various parts of the group.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Group auditors Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 3 3 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the companys subsidiaries 7 8 Total audit fees payable to the companys auditor 10 11 Taxation advisory services 1 1 1 Other non-audit services 3 1 Total fees payable to the companys auditor 14 13 Reimbursement by third party of fees payable to the companys auditor 1 Total fees payable by the group to the companys auditor 13 13 Other audit rms Fees payable to other auditor rms for: The audit of the companys subsidiaries 1 1 Taxation advisory services 3 3 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 1 1 Internal audit services 1 3 Other non-audit services 2 Services relating to information technology 2 1 2 Other 6 21 Total fees payable to other audit rms 14 30 1 2 Principally relating to the AB InBev offer.
Consulting services principally relating to the cost and efficiency programme.
120 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Exceptional items 2016 2015 US$m US$m Exceptional items included in operating profit: 1,2 Impairments 379 313 Transaction costs 160 Cost and efficiency programme costs 36 69 Integration and restructuring costs 29 139 2 Net foreign exchange losses 10 profit on disposal of investment in associate 401 profit on disposal of business 45 Net exceptional losses included within operating profit 556 75 Exceptional items included in net finance costs: 2 Net foreign exchange losses 44 1 Loan guarantee provision 20 Early redemption costs 48 Recycling of foreign currency translation reserves 33 Net exceptional losses included within net finance costs 64 15 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items: profit on transaction in associate 86 1 Impairments and related charges 119 63 Restructuring costs 68 Groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional losses 101 63 Net taxation credits charges relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items 28 83 1 Angola During 2016 the group incurred US$491 million of exceptional charges before finance costs relating to Angola including the US$372 million impairment of the groups associate investment inAngola and the groups US$119 million share of Castels impairment and related charges.
Additionally the group has made a provision within finance costs in relation to loan guarantees in Angola of US$20 million.
All the charges result from the operations being signicantly scaled down following the significant devaluation of the local currency against the US dollar and the lack ofavailability of hard currency in Angola.
2 South Sudan During 2016 the group incurred US$17 million of exceptional charges before finance costs relating to South Sudan including the US$7 million impairment of property, plant and equipment and US$10 million of operating foreign exchange losses arising on the retranslation of net monetary liabilities.
Additionally the group has incurred US$44 million of foreign exchange losses on net monetary liabilities within finance costs.
All the charges result from the operation being signicantly scaled down following the significant devaluation of the local currency against the US dollar and the lack of availability of hard currency in South Sudan.
Impairments During 2015 an impairment charge of US$313 million was incurred in respect of the groups Indian business in Asia Pacic.
The impairment charge comprised US$286 million against goodwill, US$23 million against property, plant and equipment, and US$4 million against intangible assets.
Transaction costs During 2016 the group incurred costs of US$160 million relating to the potential transaction with Anheuser-Busch InBev SA NV, including advisers fees and staff-related costs.
Cost and efficiency programme costs In 2016 costs of US$36 million 2015: US$69 million were incurred in relation to the cost and efficiency programme.
Integration and restructuring costs In 2016 a credit of US$29 million was realised relating to integration and restructuring in Australia, following the successful resolution of certain claims leading to the release of provisions.
During 2015 US$139 million of integration and restructuring costs were incurred in Asia Pacic following the Fosters and Pacic Beverages acquisitions, including impairments relating to brewery closures.
profit on disposal of investment in associate During 2015 a pre-tax profit of US$401 million, after associated costs, was realised on the disposal of the groups interests in the Tsogo Sun hotels and gaming business in South Africa.
profit on disposal of business During 2015 an additional profit of US$45 million was realised in Africa in relation to the disposal in 2012 of the groups Angolan operations in exchange for a 27.5% interest in BIH Angola, following the resolution of certain matters leading to the release of provisions.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Exceptional items continued Exceptional items included in net finance costs Early redemption costs During 2015 a US$48 million exceptional charge was incurred in relation to costs for the early redemption of the US$850 million 6.5% Notes that were due July 2016.
Recycling of foreign currency translation reserve During 2015 a credit of US$33 million was recognised in relation to the recycling of foreign currency translation reserves following the repayment ofanintercompany loan.
Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items profit on transaction in associate In 2016 the groups associate Castel recognised a gain arising on the change in control following the acquisition of further interests in its Tunisian operation.
The groups share of the gain amounted to US$86 million.
Impairments During 2015 the groups share of the impairment charges taken by Anadolu Efes in relation to its beer businesses in Russia and Ukraine amounted toUS$63 million.
Restructuring costs During 2016 MillerCoors announced the closure of the Eden brewery with full effect from September 2016.
Restructuring costs, including accelerated depreciation and severance costs, have been incurred of which the groups share amounted to US$68 million.
Net taxation credits charges relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Net taxation credits of US$28 million 2015: charges of US$83 million arose in relation to exceptional items during the year, and include US$25 million 2015: US$nil in relation to MillerCoors although the tax credit is recognised in Miller Brewing Company see note 7.
Net finance costs 2016 2015 US$m US$m a.
Finance costs Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 88 100 Interest payable on derivatives 132 177 Interest payable on corporate bonds 397 545 Interest element of finance lease payments 4 3 Net fair value losses on financial instruments 27 Net exchange losses 15 120 1 Exceptional foreign exchange losses see note 4 44 1 Exceptional loan guarantee provision see note 4 20 1 Early redemption costs see note 4 48 Other finance charges 36 54 Total finance costs 763 1,047 b.
Finance income Interest receivable 16 19 Interest receivable on derivatives 234 282 Net fair value gains on financial instruments 66 1 Recycling of foreign currency translation reserves see note 4 33 Other finance income 7 10 Total finance income 257 410 Net finance costs 506 637 1 Net exceptional losses of US$64 million 2015: US$15 million are excluded from the determination of adjusted net finance costs and adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted net finance costs were US$442 million 2015: US$622 million.
Refer to note 21 Financial risk factors for interest rate risk information.
122 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
Employee and key management compensation costs a.
Employee costs 2016 2015 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,858 2,085 Share-based payments 90 117 Social security costs 175 164 Pension costs 107 117 Post-retirement benets other than pensions 5 8 2,235 2,491 Of the US$2,235 million employee costs shown above, US$3 million 2015: US$8 million has been capitalised within intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of employees are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, excluding employees of associated and joint venture undertakings and including executive directors.
2016 2015 Number Number Latin America 28,632 28,162 Africa 25,669 24,802 Asia Pacic 4,692 5,048 Europe 9,971 9,810 North America 186 124 Corporate 939 862 70,089 68,808 c. Key management compensation The directors of the group and members of the executive committee excom are dened as key management.
At 31 March 2016 there were 23 2015: 23 key management.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benets 28 29 Post-employment benets 2 3 Share-based payments 53 47 83 79 d. Directors 2016 2015 US$m US$m Aggregate emoluments 5,986,052 2015: 5,235,208 9 8 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options or release of share awards 11 12 Notional contributions to unfunded retirement benets scheme 370,666 2015: 502,836 1 1 21 21 At 31 March 2016 two directors 2015: one had retirement benets accruing under money purchase pension schemes.
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes during the year amounted to 120,000 2015: 40,000.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 92.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation 2016 2015 US$m US$m Current taxation 1,039 1,415 Charge for the year 1,050 1,390 Adjustments in respect of prior years 11 25 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 148 176 Total current taxation 1,187 1,591 Deferred taxation 35 318 Credit for the year 24 330 Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 7 Rate change 1 5 Taxation expense 1,152 1,273 Tax charge credit relating to components of other comprehensive loss is as follows: Deferred tax charge credit on net remeasurements of dened benefit plans 29 70 Deferred tax credit charge on financial instruments 18 3 11 67 Total current tax 1,187 1,591 Total deferred tax 24 385 Total taxation 1,163 1,206 Effective tax rate % 26.3 26.0 UK taxation included in the above Current taxation Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 91 82 Total current taxation 91 82 Deferred taxation 53 UK taxation expense 38 82 See the financial denitions section for the denition of the effective tax rate.
The calculation is on a basis consistent with that used in prior years and is also consistent with other group operating metrics.
Tax on amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software was US$96 million 2015: US$117 million.
MillerCoors is not a taxable entity.
The tax balances and obligations therefore remain with Miller Brewing Company as a 100% subsidiary of the group.
This subsidiarys tax charge includes tax including deferred tax on the groups share of the taxable profits of MillerCoors and includes tax in other comprehensive income on the groups share of MillerCoors taxable items included within other comprehensive income.
124 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Taxation continued Tax rate reconciliation 2016 2015 US$m US$m profit before taxation 4,074 4,830 Less: Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,126 1,083 2,948 3,747 Tax charge at standard UK rate of 20% 2015: 21% 590 787 Exempt income 155 194 Other incentive allowances 33 34 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 140 179 Deferred tax asset not recognised recognised 49 54 Initial recognition of deferred taxation 53 104 Tax impact of MillerCoors joint venture 158 174 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 148 176 Other taxes 37 33 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 288 306 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 23 32 Deferred taxation rate change 1 5 Deferred taxation on unremitted earnings 5 33 Total taxation expense 1,152 1,273 8.
Earnings per share 2016 2015 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 167.8 205.7 Diluted earnings per share 166.0 203.5 Headline earnings per share 188.4 213.4 Adjusted basic earnings per share 224.1 239.1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 221.6 236.6 The weighted average number of shares was: 2016 2015 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,677 1,674 Treasury shares 59 63 EBT ordinary shares 10 7 Basic shares 1,608 1,604 Dilutive ordinary shares 18 17 Diluted shares 1,626 1,621 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 4,582,485 2015: 8,613,524 share options that were non-dilutive for the year because the exercise price together with the future IFRS 2 charge of the option exceeded the average fair value of the shares during the year and 25,574,875 2015: 16,316,980 share awards that were non-dilutive for the year because the performance conditions attached to the share awards had not been met.
These share incentives could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Earnings per share continued Adjusted and headline earnings The group presents an adjusted earnings per share gure which excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax exceptional items in order to present an additional measure of performance for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share are based on adjusted earnings for each financial year and on the same number of weighted average shares in issue as the basic earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the South African Circular 2 2015 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
The adjustments made to arrive at headline earnings and adjusted earnings are as follows.
2016 2015 US$m US$m profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 2,699 3,299 Headline adjustments Impairment of associate 372 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 7 73 Impairment of intangible assets 6 Impairment of goodwill 286 profit on disposal of investment in associate 401 profit on disposal of business 45 Tax effects of these items 146 Non-controlling interests share of the above items 1 1 Share of associates and joint ventures headline adjustments, net of tax and non-controlling interests 48 60 Headline earnings 3,029 3,423 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software 279 335 Transaction costs 160 Integration and restructuring costs excluding impairment 29 87 Cost and efficiency programme costs 36 69 Loan guarantee provision 20 Net foreign exchange losses 54 Early redemption costs 48 Recycling of foreign currency translation reserves 33 Tax effects of the above items 117 167 Non-controlling interests share of the above items 23 6 Share of associates and joint ventures other adjustments, net of tax and non-controlling interests 195 79 Adjusted earnings 3,604 3,835 9.
Dividends 2016 2015 US$m US$m Equity 2015 Final dividend paid: 87.0 US cents 2014: 80.0 US cents per ordinary share 1,404 1,289 2016 Interim dividend paid: 28.25 US cents 2015: 26.0 US cents per ordinary share 456 416 1,860 1,705 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend of 93.75 US cents per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2016, which will absorb an estimated US$1,509 million of shareholders funds.
If approved by shareholders, and if the proposed offer for the company by AB InBev has not become effective prior to 12 August 2016, the dividend will be paid on 12 August 2016 to shareholders registered on the London and Johannesburg registers as at 5 August 2016.
The total dividend per share for the year is 122.0 US cents 2015: 113.0 US cents.
Treasury shares do not attract dividends and the employees benefit trusts have both waived their right to receive dividends further information can be found in note 26.
126 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
Goodwill US$m Cost At 1 April 2014 18,843 Exchange adjustments 3,257 Reclassication see note 19 293 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 At 31 March 2015 15,294 Exchange adjustments 555 Acquisitions through business combinations 79 At 31 March 2016 14,818 Accumulated impairment At 1 April 2014 346 Exchange adjustments 84 Impairment 286 At 31 March 2015 548 Exchange adjustments 2 At 31 March 2016 550 Net book amount At 1 April 2014 18,497 At 31 March 2015 14,746 At 31 March 2016 14,268 2016 Provisional goodwill of US$79 million arose on the acquisition of Meantime Brewing Company Ltd, a modern craft brewer in the United Kingdom.
The fair value exercise in respect of this business combination is now complete.
2015 Provisional goodwill of US$1 million arose on the acquisition of a business in Africa.
Goodwill is monitored principally on an individual country basis and the net book value is allocated by cash generating unit CGU as follows.
2016 2015 US$m US$m CGUs: Latin America: Central America 766 777 Colombia 2,881 3,367 Peru 1,408 1,505 Other Latin America 198 207 Africa: South Africa 321 391 Other Africa 200 219 Asia Pacic: Australia 5,858 5,820 Europe: Czech Republic 761 707 Netherlands 90 85 Italy 368 347 Poland 1,021 1,002 United Kingdom 74 Other Europe 66 63 North America 256 256 14,268 14,746 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Goodwill continued Assumptions The group uses both value in use and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD calculations to determine the recoverable amounts for its CGUs.
Seenote 1 for the detailed accounting policy on how the group determines recoverable value.
The key assumptions for the discounted cash ow calculations are as follows.
Expected volume five-year compound annual growth rate CAGR Cash ows are based on financial forecasts approved by management foreach CGU covering five-year periods and are dependent on managements expected volume CAGRs which have been determined based on past experience and planned initiatives, and with reference to external sources in respect of macro-economic assumptions.
Expected growth rates over the five-year forecast period are generally higher than the long-term average growth rates for the economies in which the CGUs operate as a steady state isnot necessarily expected to be reached in this period.
The cash ow forecasts included in FVLCD calculations are based on managements best estimates of expected volume CAGRs and incorporate cash ows associated with enhancing the assets performance, such as capital expenditure, where appropriate in order to determine the FVLCD from a market participants perspective.
Discount rate The discount rate weighted average cost of capital is calculated using a methodology which reects the returns from United States Treasury notes with a maturity of 20 years, an equity risk premium adjusted for specic industry and country risks, and ination differentials.
The group applies local post-tax discount rates to local post-tax cash ows.
For a value in use calculation, where a potential impairment is identied on a post-tax basis, the impairment review is reperformed on a pre-tax basis.
Long-term growth rate Cash ows after the first five-year period are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate, in order to calculate the terminal recoverable amount.
The long-term growth rate is estimated using historical trends and expected future trends in ination rates, based on external data.
The following table presents the key assumptions used in the discounted cash ow calculations in each of the groups operating segments and relate only to subsidiaries of the group.
Expected volume CAGRs Post-tax Long-term 2016-2021 discount rates growth rates % % % Latin America 2.93.9 8.412.7 1.93.7 Africa 3.711.3 12.219.3 5.48.6 Asia Pacic 0.1 7.4 2.6 Europe 0.9 3.2 6.99.0 1.42.3 1 North America 22.2 6.7 1.9 1 Primarily the international business across the Americas.
Impairment reviews results As a result of the annual impairment reviews, no impairment losses have been recognised in the year.
In 2015 an impairment charge of US$313 million was recognised in respect of the India CGU in Asia Pacic.
This primarily reected the groups assessment of the increasing regulatory and excise challenges in the operating environment in India and the proposed partial introduction of a national goods and services tax GST which will not apply to beer so that GST on input costs is not expected to be recoverable.
The impairment loss was allocated to goodwill US$286 million, property, plant and equipment US$23 million, and intangible assets US$4 million.
The recoverable amount of the CGU was based on its value in use, which was determined using a discounted cash ow calculation.
In arriving at value in use, apre-tax discount rate of 14.1% was applied to pre-tax cash ows.
Sensitivities to assumptions The groups impairment reviews are sensitive to changes in the key assumptions described above.
The most material goodwill balance is in Australia.
In addition to the volume CAGR, pricing and mix, and cost efficiencies are significant factors inuencing the recoverable value of the CGU, and therefore NPR and EBITA CAGRs were also considered key assumptions in the discounted cash ow calculation.
The estimated recoverable value was calculated on a FVLCD basis.
Due to improved performance of the groups business in Australia, the recoverable amount has increased and is now approximately US$750 million 2015: US$650 million higher than the carrying value of the CGU.
For the recoverable amount to reduce to a level such that it is equal to the carrying value of the CGU, the following would need to occur inisolation: the future compound annual NPR growth over the five-year forecast period to reduce to a level such that the EBITA CAGR over the same period of 3.7% would fall below the long-term growth rate of 2.6%: or the long-term growth rate of 2.6% in nominal terms to fall below 2.1%: or the discount rate to rise from 7.4% to 7.8% or higher.
These changes in assumptions are considered reasonably possible in the current operating environment.
Based on the groups sensitivity analysis, a reasonably possible change in a single assumption will not cause an impairment loss in any of the groups other CGUs.
128 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
Intangible assets Computer Brands software Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2014 9,188 811 557 10,556 Exchange adjustments 1,596 101 101 1,798 Additions separately acquired 14 172 186 Disposals 8 8 At 31 March 2015 7,606 874 456 8,936 Exchange adjustments 289 22 4 307 Additions separately acquired 91 91 Acquisitions through business combinations 126 126 Disposals 33 20 53 At 31 March 2016 7,443 910 440 8,793 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2014 1,544 370 110 2,024 Exchange adjustments 301 48 25 374 Amortisation 301 75 34 410 Disposals 8 8 Impairment 4 2 6 At 31 March 2015 1,548 391 119 2,058 Exchange adjustments 83 11 2 92 Amortisation 254 73 25 352 Disposals 31 20 51 At 31 March 2016 1,719 422 126 2,267 Net book amount At 1 April 2014 7,644 441 447 8,532 At 31 March 2015 6,058 483 337 6,878 At 31 March 2016 5,724 488 314 6,526 During 2016 no impairment charges in respect of intangible assets were recognised 2015: US$6 million.
At 31 March significant individual brands included within the carrying value of intangible assets are as follows.
Amortisation period 2016 2015 remaining US$m US$m years Brand carrying value Carlton Australia 1,452 1,481 36 Aguila Colombia 813 987 29 Victoria Bitter Australia 732 748 36 Cristal Peru 459 508 29 Grolsch Netherlands 342 332 32 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Plant, course of Land and vehicles Returnable construction buildings and systems containers Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2014 606 3,665 8,394 2,051 14,716 Exchange adjustments 124 712 1,722 362 2,920 Additions 828 30 216 345 1,419 Acquisitions through business combinations 3 1 4 Breakages and shrinkage 140 140 Transfers 613 123 476 14 Transfers to other assets 2 2 Disposals 1 63 298 39 401 At 31 March 2015 696 3,046 7,065 1,869 12,676 Exchange adjustments 65 192 640 158 1,055 Additions 641 91 213 303 1,248 Acquisitions through business combinations 6 10 3 19 Breakages and shrinkage 111 111 Transfers 709 130 546 33 Disposals 3 30 203 17 253 At 31 March 2016 560 3,051 6,991 1,922 12,524 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2014 723 3,916 1,012 5,651 Exchange adjustments 187 1,015 203 1,405 Provided during the year 74 528 219 821 Breakages and shrinkage 77 77 Impairment 43 30 73 Disposals 38 275 35 348 At 31 March 2015 615 3,184 916 4,715 Exchange adjustments 35 314 75 424 Provided during the year 68 470 205 743 Breakages and shrinkage 54 54 Impairment 7 7 Disposals 14 190 9 213 At 31 March 2016 634 3,157 983 4,774 Net book amount At 1 April 2014 606 2,942 4,478 1,039 9,065 At 31 March 2015 696 2,431 3,881 953 7,961 At 31 March 2016 560 2,417 3,834 939 7,750 No impairment losses have been recognised in the year as a result of the annual goodwill impairment reviews 2015: US$23 million see note 10.
Included in land and buildings is freehold land with a cost of US$498 million 2015: US$560 million which is not depreciated.
Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts relating to assets held under finance leases.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Net book amount 74 65 130 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Included in the amounts above are the following amounts in respect of borrowing costs capitalised.
2016 2015 US$m US$m At 1 April 20 37 Exchange adjustments 3 6 Amortised during the year 8 11 At 31 March 9 20 No borrowing costs were capitalised during the year 2015: none.
Borrowings are secured by various of the groups property, plant and equipment with an aggregate net book value of US$86 million 2015: US$91 million.
Investments in joint ventures A list of the groups principal investments in joint ventures, including the name, country of incorporation and effective ownership interest is given in note 33.
US$m At 1 April 2014 5,581 Investments in joint ventures 216 Share of results retained 786 Share of other comprehensive loss 179 Dividends received 976 As at 31 March 2015 5,428 Investments in joint ventures 301 Share of results retained 746 Share of other comprehensive income 35 Dividends received 998 At 31 March 2016 5,512 Summarised financial information for the groups interest in joint ventures, on a 100% basis after adjustments to comply with the groups accounting policies, is shown below.
Summarised balance sheet MillerCoors 2016 2015 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 16 18 Other current assets 935 911 Total current assets 951 929 Non-current assets 5,030 5,022 Total assets 5,981 5,951 Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 72 47 Other current liabilities 945 911 Total current liabilities 1,017 958 Financial liabilities 58 30 Other non-current liabilities 1,311 1,509 Total liabilities 2,386 2,497 Non-controlling interests 38 41 Net assets attributable to owners 3,557 3,413 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Investments in joint ventures continued Summarised statement of comprehensive income MillerCoors 2016 2015 US$m US$m Revenue 8,866 8,966 Depreciation and amortisation 411 322 Interest expense 2 1 profit before taxation 1,288 1,361 Taxation expense 3 5 profit for the year 1,285 1,356 Other comprehensive income loss 61 309 Total comprehensive income 1,346 1,047 Reconciliation of summarised financial information A reconciliation of the summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the groups interests in its joint ventures is as follows.
MillerCoors 2016 2015 US$m US$m Opening net assets 3,413 3,676 Total comprehensive income 1,346 1,047 Dividends paid 1,721 1,683 Funding to joint venture 519 373 Closing net assets 3,557 3,413 Interest in joint venture % 58 58 Interest in joint venture 2,063 1,979 Goodwill 3,449 3,449 Carrying value of investments in joint venture 5,512 5,428 14.
Investments in associates A list of the groups principal investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and effective ownership interest is given in note 33.
Details of all the groups investments in associates are provided in the related undertakings section of the annual report.
US$m At 1 April 2014 5,787 Exchange adjustments 755 Investments in associates 46 Disposals of investments in associates 368 Share of results retained 297 Share of other comprehensive loss 119 Share of movements in other reserves 6 Dividends receivable 423 At 31 March 2015 4,459 Exchange adjustments 50 Impairment see note 4 372 Share of results retained 380 Share of other comprehensive loss 52 Share of movements in other reserves 2 Dividends receivable 253 At 31 March 2016 4,114 2016 There have been no acquisitions or disposals of associates in the year.
An impairment charge of US$372 million was recognised in respect of the groups investment in BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltd, its associate with interests in Angola, as a result of the operations in Angola being signicantly scaled down following the significant devaluation of the local currency against the US dollar and the lack of availability of hard currency in Angola.
The recoverable amount was based on the value in use, determined using a discounted cash ow calculation with a pre-tax discount rate of 24.0%.
132 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14.
Investments in associates continued 2015 The group disposed of its investment in Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd Tsogo Sun, its hotels and gaming associate listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, in August 2014 through an institutional placing and share buyback.
The group received net proceeds of US$971 million, and realised apost-tax profit of US$239 million.
In January 2015 the group received net proceeds of US$7 million and realised a net profit of US$2 million, after associated costs, on the disposal of its packaging associate in Panama, Latin America.
The analysis of associates between listed and unlisted investments is shown below.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Listed 1,446 1,470 Unlisted 2,668 2,989 4,114 4,459 Further details of the market value of listed investments in associates are given in note 21.
Summarised financial information Summarised financial information for associates, which in the opinion of the directors are material to the group, on a 100% basis after adjustments to comply with the groups accounting policies, is as follows.
1 Castel Anadolu Efes CR Snow 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Summarised balance sheet Total current assets 3,963 3,388 1,411 1,478 1,641 1,523 Total non-current assets 3,699 2,972 6,282 6,390 4,888 5,032 Total assets 7,662 6,360 7,693 7,868 6,529 6,555 Total current liabilities 1,505 1,257 777 920 2,813 2,869 Total non-current liabilities 592 409 2,491 2,402 744 659 Total liabilities 2,097 1,666 3,268 3,322 3,557 3,528 Total non-controlling interests 825 672 1,782 1,659 20 20 Net assets attributable to owners 4,740 4,022 2,643 2,887 2,952 3,007 Summarised statement of comprehensive income loss Revenue 6,019 6,000 5,099 6,408 4,449 4,496 profit loss for the year attributable to owners 825 815 65 466 262 199 Other comprehensive loss income attributable to owners 92 59 158 537 172 23 Total comprehensive income loss attributable to owners 733 756 93 1,003 90 222 Reconciliation of summarised financial information A reconciliation of the summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the groups interests in its associates is as follows.
1 Castel Anadolu Efes CR Snow 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening net assets attributable to owners 4,022 5,212 2,887 4,571 3,007 3,267 Total comprehensive income loss attributable to owners 733 756 93 1,003 90 222 Dividends paid 394 359 97 146 465 Exchange adjustments 379 1,587 240 681 3 Other movements in reserves 1 20 Closing net assets attributable to owners 4,740 4,022 2,643 2,887 2,952 3,007 Interest in associates % 2040 2040 24 24 49 49 Interest in associates 1,053 925 634 693 1,446 1,473 Impairment 105 Goodwill 50 310 357 387 Carrying value of investments in associates 998 1,235 991 1,080 1,446 1,473 1 BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales SA, Algerienne fide Bavaroise Spa, BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltd, Marocaine dInvestissements et fide Services SA, Skikda Bottling Company SARL, Socit fide Boissons fide IOuest Algerien SARL, and Socit des Nouvelles Brasseries together make up Castels African beverage operations.
Details of individual ownership percentages are included in the related undertakings section of the annual report.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Investments in associates continued Individually immaterial associates Summarised financial information for individually immaterial associates, in aggregate, is as follows.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Summarised statement of comprehensive income Aggregate carrying amount of individually immaterial associates 679 671 Aggregate amounts of the groups share of: profit for the year attributable to owners 126 124 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners 20 12 Total comprehensive income 146 136 15.
Inventories 2016 2015 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 568 588 Work in progress 91 89 Finished goods and goods for resale 334 353 993 1,030 The following amount of inventories is expected to be utilised after 12 months.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 33 38 There were no borrowings secured on the inventories of the group 2015: US$nil.
An impairment charge of US$19 million was recognised in respect of inventories during the year 2015: US$34 million.
Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,448 1,412 Less: provision for impairment 129 132 Trade receivables net 1,319 1,280 Other receivables 363 355 Less: provision for impairment 5 12 Other receivables net 358 343 Amounts owed by associates 15 28 Amounts owed by joint ventures 8 4 Prepayments and accrued income 163 182 Total trade and other receivables 1,863 1,837 Analysed as: Current Trade receivables net 1,308 1,265 Other receivables net 269 259 Amounts owed by associates 4 17 Amounts owed by joint ventures 8 4 Prepayments and accrued income 153 166 1,742 1,711 Non-current Trade receivables net 11 15 Other receivables net 89 84 Amounts owed by associates 11 11 Prepayments and accrued income 10 16 121 126 134 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.
Trade and other receivables continued The net carrying values of trade and other receivables are considered a close approximation of their fair values.
At 31 March 2016 trade and other receivables of US$462 million 2015: US$415 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to customers of whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing of these trade and other receivables is shown below.
Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-180 days 180 days US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2016 Trade receivables 938 175 65 25 35 36 Other receivables 221 42 11 4 24 44 Amounts owed by associates 14 1 Amounts owed by joint ventures 8 At 31 March 2015 Trade receivables 937 165 47 19 24 41 Other receivables 232 45 8 4 15 22 Amounts owed by associates 3 13 3 9 Amounts owed by joint ventures 4 The group holds collateral as security for past due trade receivables to the value of US$7 million 2015: US$9 million.
Collateral held primarily includes bank guarantees and charges over assets.
At 31 March 2016 trade receivables of US$174 million 2015: US$179 million were determined to be specically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2016 was US$129 million 2015: US$132 million and reects trade receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
It was assessed that a portion of these receivables is expected to be recovered.
The group holds collateral as security against specically impaired trade receivables with a fair value of US$2 million 2015: US$1 million.
At 31 March 2016 other receivables of US$17 million 2015: US$29 million were determined to be specically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2016 was US$5 million 2015: US$12 million and reects loans to customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
No collateral was held as security against specically impaired other receivables in either of the years ended 31 March 2016 and 2015.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Australian dollars 190 161 British pound 100 112 Colombian peso 95 117 Czech koruna 80 76 Euro 206 169 Indian rupee 182 130 Polish zloty 136 143 SA rand 269 297 US dollars 171 183 Other currencies 434 449 1,863 1,837 Movements on the provisions for impairment of trade receivables and other receivables are as follows.
Trade receivables Other receivables 2016 2015 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 132 144 12 12 Provision for receivables impairment 26 34 1 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 26 21 5 2 Exchange adjustments 3 25 1 2 At 31 March 129 132 5 12 The creation of provisions for impaired receivables is included in net operating expenses in the income statement see note 3.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Cash and cash equivalents 2016 2015 US$m US$m Short-term deposits 996 528 Cash at bank and in hand 434 437 1,430 965 Cash and short-term deposits of US$109 million 2015: US$117 million are held in certain African countries including South Africa and are subject to local exchange control regulations.
These local exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from those countries, other than through normal dividends.
As normal dividends are generally able to be paid, these restrictions are not expected to have a material impact on the groups ability to meet its ongoing obligations.
Trade and other payables 2016 2015 US$m US$m Trade payables 1,478 1,404 Accruals 704 651 Deferred income 8 8 Containers in the hands of customers 437 443 Amounts owed to associates 36 38 Amounts owed to joint ventures 14 18 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 4 Excise duty payable 331 344 VAT and other taxes payable 212 221 Other payables 678 615 Total trade and other payables 3,898 3,746 Analysed as: Current Trade payables 1,478 1,404 Accruals 704 651 Deferred income 2 4 Containers in the hands of customers 437 443 Amounts owed to associates 36 38 Amounts owed to joint ventures 14 18 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 4 Excise duty payable 331 344 VAT and other taxes payable 212 221 Other payables 656 601 3,870 3,728 Non-current Deferred income 6 4 Other payables 22 14 28 18 136 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Deferred taxation The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below.
2016 2015 US$m US$m At 1 April 2,112 3,131 Exchange adjustments 131 345 Acquisitions through business combinations 26 1 Rate change 1 5 Transfers from current tax 58 3 1 Reclassication 293 Credited to the income statement 36 323 Deferred tax on items credited charged to other comprehensive loss: Financial instruments 18 3 Remeasurements of dened benefit plans 29 70 At 31 March 2,041 2,112 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after offsetting of balances as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Investment in Fixed asset Tax losses Financial MillerCoors Other timing allowances and credits Intangibles instruments joint venture differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2014 724 413 2,380 48 644 41 3,246 Exchange adjustments 113 123 419 2 33 378 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 Rate change 3 11 3 5 Transfers from to deferred tax assets 38 2 2 3 18 13 1 Reclassication 293 293 Charged credited to the income statement 29 81 100 7 5 74 224 Deferred tax on items charged credited to other comprehensive loss: Financial instruments 1 1 Remeasurements of dened benefit plans 68 2 70 At 31 March 2015 600 662 1,872 40 574 69 2,275 Exchange adjustments 75 3 69 1 20 128 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 25 26 Rate change 3 1 4 Transfers from current tax 56 2 58 Transfers from deferred tax assets 2 2 Charged credited to the income statement 49 8 73 9 23 32 14 Deferred tax on items credited charged to other comprehensive loss: Financial instruments 5 13 18 Remeasurements of dened benefit plans 28 1 29 At 31 March 2016 572 617 1,754 55 612 16 2,250 1 Following clarification from the IFRS Interpretations Committee during 2014 regarding the recognition of deferred taxes, US$293 million was reclassied from goodwill to net deferred tax liabilities, with no impact on results or net assets.
Fixed asset Provisions Other timing allowances and accruals differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2014 16 35 96 115 Exchange adjustments 3 5 25 33 Transfers from current tax 3 3 Transfers to from deferred tax liabilities 38 19 6 13 Credited to the income statement 89 8 2 99 Deferred tax on items charged to other comprehensive income: Financial instruments 2 2 32 57 74 163 At 31 March 2015 Exchange adjustments 3 3 Rate change 4 1 5 Transfers to from deferred tax liabilities 5 3 2 Charged credited to the income statement 25 7 68 50 At 31 March 2016 3 58 148 209 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Deferred taxation continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The deferred tax asset arises due to timing differences in Corporate, Europe, Africa and Latin America.
Given both recent and forecast trading, the directors are of the opinion that the level of profits in the foreseeable future is more likely than not to be sufficient to recover these assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$1,784 million 2015: US$2,013 million are expected to fall due after more than one year and deferred tax assets of US$104 million 2015: US$115 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Tax losses 158 281 Tax credits 1,477 1,355 Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 10 7 Share-based payments 51 47 1,696 1,690 Deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses are not recognised unless there is convincing evidence that existing taxable temporary differences will reverse in the future or there will be sufficient taxable profits in future years to recover the assets.
A material element of the tax losses arose in the UK.
Aportion US$53 million has now been recognised due to the groups growing UK business and increasing activities within the corporate head ofce, which are reected in the groups future forecasts.
US$102million 2015: US$229 million of the total unrecognised tax losses do not expire.
Deferred tax assets in respect of tax credits arising which are carried forward for offset against future profits are not recognised unless it is probable that future profits will arise.
US$1,468 million 2015: US$1,345 million of these tax credits expire within 10 years.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where there is an intention to distribute those reserves.
A deferred tax liability of US$10 million 2015: US$11 million has been recognised.
A deferred tax liability of US$48 million 2015: US$56 million has been recognised in respect of unremitted profits of associates where a dividend policy is not in place.
Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operating in lower tax jurisdictions do not result in a deferred tax liability where the reporting entity is able to control the timing of the reversal of temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Similarly no tax is provided where there are plans to remit overseas earnings of subsidiaries but it is not expected that such distributions will give rise to a tax liability.
As a result of UK legislation which largely exempts overseas dividends from tax, the temporary differences arising on unremitted profits are unlikely to lead to additional corporate taxes.
However, remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
Borrowings 2016 2015 US$m US$m Current Secured Overdrafts 12 29 Obligations under finance leases 13 10 Other secured loans 4 29 39 Unsecured Overdrafts 147 186 Unsecured bonds 2,324 712 Other unsecured loans 426 1,024 2,897 1,922 Total current borrowings 2,926 1,961 138 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Borrowings continued 2016 2015 US$m US$m Non-current Secured Obligations under finance leases 48 43 Other secured loans 5 1 53 44 Unsecured Unsecured bonds 8,521 10,203 Unsecured loans 240 336 8,761 10,539 Total non-current borrowings 8,814 10,583 Total current and non-current borrowings 11,740 12,544 Analysed as: Overdrafts 159 215 Bank loans 675 1,361 Bonds 10,845 10,915 Obligations under finance leases 61 53 11,740 12,544 Maturity of non-current financial liabilities The maturity prole of the carrying amount of the groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 March was as follows.
Net Net derivative derivative Finance financial 2016 Finance financial 2015 Bank loans Bonds leases assets Total Bank loans Bonds leases assets Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Between one and two years 190 67 13 16 254 96 2,327 10 264 2,169 Between two and three years 55 1,859 10 104 1,820 239 90 7 23 313 Between three and four years 1,158 8 22 1,144 1 1,867 6 122 1,752 Between four and five years 540 7 7 540 1,068 7 19 1,056 In five years or more 4,897 10 398 4,509 1 4,851 13 333 4,532 245 8,521 48 547 8,267 337 10,203 43 761 9,822 Net nancing-related derivative financial instruments only note 22.
2016 On 7 August 2015 FBG Treasury Aust Pty Ltd issued AUD700 million, 3.75% Notes due August 2020, guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
2015 There were no bonds issued during the year ended 31 March 2015.
In December 2014 US$850 million, 6.5% Notes due 2016 were redeemed early.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Borrowings continued Maturity of obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases are as follows.
2016 2015 US$m US$m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows.
Within one year 16 11 Between one and five years 45 36 In five years or more 12 15 73 62 Future finance charges 12 9 Present value of finance lease liabilities 61 53 21.
Financial risk factors Financial risk management Overview In the normal course of business, the group is exposed to the following financial risks: M arket risk C redit risk Liquidity risk This note explains the groups exposure to each of the above risks, aided by quantitative disclosures included throughout these consolidated financial statements, and it summarises the policies and processes that are in place to measure and manage the risks arising, including those related to the management of capital.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the establishment and oversight of the groups risk management framework.
An essential part of this framework is the role undertaken by the audit committee of the board, supported by the internal audit function, and by the Chief Financial officer, who in this regard is supported by the treasury committee and the group treasury function.
Among other responsibilities, the audit committee reviews the internal control environment and risk management systems within the group and it reports its activities to the board.
The board also receives a quarterly report on treasury activities, including conrmation of compliance with treasury risk management policies.
The group treasury function is responsible for the management of cash, borrowings and the financial risks arising in relation to interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the price risk of some commodities.
The responsibility for the management of the remaining commodities exposures primarily lies with the groups centralised procurement function, SABMiller Procurement GmbH SABMiller Procurement.
Some of the risk management strategies include the use of derivatives in order to manage the currency, interest rate and commodities exposures arising from the groups operations.
It is the policy of the group that no trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
The groups treasury policies are established to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor exposures and adherence to limits.
Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group is subject to exposure on the translation of the foreign currency denominated net assets of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into the groups US dollar reporting currency.
The group seeks to mitigate this exposure, where cost effective, by borrowing in the same currencies as the functional currencies of its main operating units or by achieving the same effect through the use of derivatives.
An approximate nominal value equivalent to US$2,519 million 2015: US$3,691 million of borrowings has been swapped into currencies that match the currency of the underlying operations of the group, including Australian dollar, Colombian peso, Czech koruna, Peruvian nuevo sol, Polish zloty and South African rand.
The group does not hedge currency exposures from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The group is also exposed to transactional currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of group entities.
These exposures are managed primarily by the group treasury function which, subject to regulatory constraints or currency market limitations, hedges a proportion of the foreign currency exposures estimated to arise over a period of up to 18 months.
Committed transactional exposures that are certain are hedged fully without limitation in time.
The group principally uses forward exchange derivatives to hedge currency risk.
The tables below set out the groups currency exposures from financial assets and liabilities held by group companies in currencies other than their functional currencies and resulting in exchange movements in the income statement and balance sheet.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on a basis consistent with the prior year, based on reasonably possible changes in exchange rates, and assumes all other variables are held constant.
140 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Financial risk factors continued Latin Other Australian American European SA dollars Euro currencies currencies rand US dollars Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 74 140 17 278 141 122 27 799 Derivative financial instruments 55 3,047 24 831 55 1,209 54 5,275 Cash and cash equivalents 22 32 6 48 108 Intra-group assets 37 1,088 18 448 29 127 1 1,748 166 4,297 59 1,589 231 1,506 82 7,930 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 72 142 294 63 389 4 964 Derivative financial instruments 75 2,640 937 1,650 554 163 18 6,037 Borrowings 2 1,164 5 775 1 1,947 Intra-group liabilities 99 37 1 180 21 329 667 248 3,983 938 2,129 638 1,656 23 9,615 At 31 March 2016 82 314 879 540 407 150 59 1,685 Potential impact on profit for the year gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 10 1 6 1 3 14 10 9 20% decrease in functional currency 12 2 7 1 3 17 12 10 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 4 51 152 91 65 10 271 20% decrease in functional currency 4 61 183 109 78 13 326 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
Latin Other Australian American European SA dollars Euro currencies currencies rand US dollars Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 1 82 121 150 36 42 432 Derivative financial instruments 79 3,230 1,260 73 2,060 6,702 Cash and cash equivalents 20 1 181 3 26 9 240 Intra-group assets 31 1,131 422 12 277 2 1,875 111 4,463 1 1,984 238 2,399 53 9,249 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 25 195 190 46 348 3 807 Derivative financial instruments 563 3,009 884 2,041 787 286 7,570 Borrowings 1,071 5 1 1,497 19 2,593 Intra-group liabilities 44 31 1 142 25 177 2 422 632 4,306 885 2,378 859 2,308 24 11,392 At 31 March 2015 521 157 884 394 621 91 29 2,143 Potential impact on profit for the year gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 1 3 32 11 4 43 5 59 20% decrease in functional currency 1 4 38 13 5 52 6 71 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 86 29 116 77 107 58 299 20% decrease in functional currency 103 35 139 92 129 70 358 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial risk factors continued The group holds foreign currency cash ow hedges totalling US$2,388 million at 31 March 2016 2015: US$1,892 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the cash ow hedging reserve until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains and losses are transferred to inventory, property, plant and equipment, goodwill or to the income statement as appropriate.
The group holds net investment hedges totalling US$2,220 million at 31 March 2016 2015: US$3,111 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these instruments are recorded in the net investment hedging reserve and partially offset the foreign currency translation risk on the groups foreign currency net assets.
ii Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is monitored based on net debt exposures.
As at 31 March 2016 40% 2015: 57% of net debt was in xed rates taking into account interest rate derivatives.
The groups practice is to borrow direct or synthetically in oating rates, reecting the fact that oating rates are generally lower than xed rates over the medium term.
The extent to which group borrowings may be in oating rates is restricted by policy such that the impact of a 1% increase in interest rates on finance costs can be no more than an agreed proportion of adjusted EBITDA.
The policy excludes borrowings arising from acquisitions in the previous six months.
Exposure to movements in interest rates on group borrowings is managed through interest rate derivatives.
The cash ow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps are shown in the table below.
This analysis assumes all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
The analysis was performed on the same basis in the prior year, based on reasonably possible changes in interest rates.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Net debt 9,638 10,465 Less: xed rate debt 7,814 9,550 Variable rate debt 1,824 915 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 3,916 3,545 Net variable rate debt exposure 5,740 4,460 - 100 bps change Potential impact on profit for the year 57 45 - 100 bps change Potential impact on other comprehensive income Fair value sensitivity analysis for xed income instruments Changes in the market interest rates of non-derivative financial instruments with xed interest rates only affect income if these are measured at their fair value.
As such, all financial instruments with xed rates of interest that are accounted for at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk as dened in IFRS 7.
The group holds derivative contracts with a nominal value of US$5,416 million as at 31 March 2016 2015: US$4,204 million which are designated as fair value hedges.
In the case of these instruments and the underlying xed rate bonds, changes in the fair values of the hedged item and the hedging instrument attributable to interest rate movements materially net off in the income statement in the same period.
iii Price risk Commodity price risk The group is exposed to variability in the price of commodities used in the production or in the packaging of nished products, such as the price of malt, barley, sugar, diesel and aluminium.
Commodity price risk is managed within minimum and maximum guard rails principally through multi-year xed price contracts with suppliers and, where appropriate, derivative contracts.
At 31 March 2016 the notional value of commodity derivatives amounted to US$184 million 2015: US$142 million.
No sensitivity analysis has been provided on these outstanding contracts as the impact is considered to be immaterial.
Equity securities price risk The group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the group and classied on the balance sheet as available for sale investments.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Financial instruments The group limits its exposure to financial institutions by setting credit limits on a sliding scale based on their credit ratings and generally dealing only with counterparties with a minimum credit rating of BBBfrom S&P and Fitch, and Baa3 from Moodys.
For banks with a lower credit rating, or with no international credit rating, a maximum limit of US$5 million is applied, unless specic approval is obtained from either the Chief Financial officer or the audit committee of the board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
To reduce credit exposures, the group has ISDA Master Agreements with most of its counterparties for financial derivatives, which permit net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances.
142 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Financial risk factors continued Trade and other receivables There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The type of customers range from wholesalers and distributors to smaller retailers.
The group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one counterparty.
The group considers its maximum credit risk to be US$3,884 million 2015: US$3,760 million which is the total of the groups financial assets.
c. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The group nances its operations through cash generated by the business and a mixture of short-term and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds and commercial paper with a range of maturity dates.
In this way, the group ensures that it is not overly reliant on any particular liquidity source or that maturities of borrowings sourced in this way are not overly concentrated.
Subsidiaries have access to local bank credit facilities, but are principally funded by the group.
Liquidity risk faced by the group is mitigated by having diverse sources of finance available to it and by maintaining substantial unutilised banking facilities and reserve borrowing capacity, as indicated by the level of undrawn facilities.
Undrawn borrowing facilities The group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March in respect of which all conditions precedent had been metat that date.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Amounts expiring: Within one year 108 65 Between one and two years 5 76 Between two and five years 3,500 3,503 3,613 3,644 At 31 March 2016 the group had the following core lines of credit that were available for general corporate purposes.
SABMiller plc: US$2,500 million committed syndicated revolving credit facility, which is due to expire in May 2020.
SABMiller Holdings Inc: US$1,000 million committed syndicated revolving credit facility, which is due to expire in May 2020.
In April 2016 the group extended its existing US$2,500 million and US$1,000 million committed syndicated facilities, both shown as undrawn in the table above, by one year to May 2021, with the exception of US$117 million for which the maturity remains May 2020.
The table below analyses the groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual settlement date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
The amounts disclosed for financial guarantee contracts represent the maximum possible cash outows for guarantees provided in respect of associates and third party bank facilities, which would only be payable upon the occurrence of certain default events.
Should such events occur, certain remedies are available that could mitigate the impact.
Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2016 Borrowings 3,305 598 4,305 6,771 Net settled derivative financial instruments 92 9 2 Gross settled derivative financial instruments inows 2,596 114 5 Gross settled derivative financial instruments outows 2,715 120 6 Trade and other payables 3,325 17 1 4 Financial guarantee contracts 120 At 31 March 2015 Borrowings 2,355 2,853 3,940 6,978 Net settled derivative financial instruments 32 6 2 Gross settled derivative financial instruments inows 1,570 79 Gross settled derivative financial instruments outows 1,653 80 Trade and other payables 3,158 14 Financial guarantee contracts 122 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial risk factors continued Capital management The capital structure of the group consists of net debt see note 27c and shareholders equity.
The groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Besides the minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in different countries, the groups only externally imposed capital requirement relates to the groups core lines of credit which include a net debt to EBITDA financial covenant which was complied with throughout the year.
The group monitors its financial capacity and credit ratings by reference to a number of key financial ratios and cash ow metrics including net debt to adjusted EBITDA and interest cover.
These provide a framework within which the groups capital base is managed including dividend policy.
If the group fails to meet the financial targets required by the ratings agencies, a credit rating downgrade could impact the average interest rate of borrowings and the future availability of credit to the group.
The group is currently rated A3 under review for downgrade by Moodys Investors Service and Astable outlook by S&P Global Ratings.
Fair value estimation The following tables present the groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, and the fair values of other assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value, but where the fair value is required to be disclosed in the financial statements.
Recurring fair value measurements Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2016 Assets Derivative financial instruments 846 846 Available for sale investments 6 13 19 Total assets 852 13 865 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 239 239 Total liabilities 239 239 At 31 March 2015 Assets Derivative financial instruments 1,233 1,233 Available for sale investments 9 12 21 Total assets 1,242 12 1,254 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 111 111 Total liabilities 111 111 144 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Financial risk factors continued Assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2016 Assets Investments in listed associates Anadolu Efes 991 1,081 1,081 Distell Group 209 624 624 Delta Corporation 246 281 281 Total assets 1,446 1,986 1,986 Liabilities Current borrowings 2,926 2,340 610 2,950 Non-current borrowings 8,814 8,818 299 9,117 Total liabilities 11,740 11,158 909 12,067 At 31 March 2015 Assets Investments in listed associates Anadolu Efes 1,080 1,187 1,187 Distell Group 211 741 741 Delta Corporation 179 324 324 Total assets 1,470 2,252 2,252 Liabilities Current borrowings 1,961 717 1,253 1,970 Non-current borrowings 10,583 10,688 390 11,078 Total liabilities 12,544 11,405 1,643 13,048 There have been no material transfers between levels during the year ended 31 March 2016 2015: none.
The levels of the fair value hierarchy and its application to the groups assets and liabilities are described below.
Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The fair value of assets and liabilities traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the group is the current bid price.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives or infrequently traded listed investments are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specic estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
The fair values of derivatives included in level 2 incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, spot and forward foreign exchange rates, and interest rate curves.
The fair values of borrowings included in level 2 are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash ows associated with these instruments, using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
Valuation techniques for other level 2 instruments could include standard valuation models based on market parameters for interest rates, yield curves or foreign exchange rates quotes for similar instruments from financial counterparties or the use of comparable arms length transactions, and discounted cash ows.
Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Specic valuation techniques, such as discounted cash ow analysis, are used to determine fair value of the remaining financial instruments.
Valuation process The groups treasury function is responsible for performing fair value measurements for financial instruments.
The fair value measurement calculations are subject to review procedures and are performed in accordance with policies dened by the treasury committee.
Other fair value measurements are performed by the groups finance department.
significant level 3 valuations are reviewed and approved by the finance, control and assurance committee in the relevant region on a by exception basis.
Valuations falling into this category are usually immaterial.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Derivative financial instruments Current derivative financial instruments 2016 2015 Notional value Assets Liabilities Notional value Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 1,500 16 5 700 11 Cash ow hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 2,207 13 43 1,757 51 30 Cross currency swaps 212 89 492 208 Commodity contracts 103 1 10 97 3 7 Net investment hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 1,534 4 104 2,080 109 11 Cross currency swaps 171 114 2 241 30 2 Held for trading Interest rate swaps 1,000 15 2 Forward foreign currency contracts 1,509 27 43 1,439 51 51 Cross currency swaps 34 1 Commodity contracts 13 1 4 8,283 281 213 6,806 463 101 Financing-related current derivative financial instruments amount to a net asset of US$125 million 2015: US$353 million.
Non-current derivative financial instruments 2016 2015 Notional value Assets Liabilities Notional value Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 3,916 347 11 3,504 289 1 Cash ow hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 181 2 135 1 1 Cross currency swaps 210 99 420 206 Commodity contracts 64 5 45 2 3 Net investment hedges Cross currency swaps 84 17 264 123 Held for trading Interest rate swaps 600 24 5 1,600 64 5 Cross currency swaps 274 78 2 170 85 Commodity contracts 4 1 5,333 565 26 6,138 770 10 Financing-related non-current derivative financial instruments amount to a net asset of US$547 million 2015: US$761 million.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments i Fair value hedges The group has entered into interest rate swaps to pay oating and receive xed interest which have been designated as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of its US dollar, euro and Australian dollar xed rate borrowings.
Borrowings are designated as the hedged item as part of the fair value hedge.
The borrowings and the interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
As at 31 March 2016 the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$5,782 million 2015: US$4,363 million.
ii Cash ow hedges The group has entered into forward exchange contracts designated as cash ow hedges to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected net operating costs including future trade imports and exports.
The group has entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash ow hedges to manage foreign currency exposures on interest payments.
The group has entered into commodity contracts designated as cash ow hedges to manage the future price of commodities.
As at 31 March 2016 the notional amount of forward contracts for the purchase price of aluminium was US$128 million 2015: US$115 million, of corn was US$26 million 2015: US$21 million, of sugar was US$9 million 2015: US$4 million and of diesel was US$4 million 2015: US$2 million.
146 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
Derivative financial instruments continued The following table indicates the period in which the cash ows associated with derivatives that are cash ow hedges are expected to occur and impact the income statement.
Carrying Expected Less than Between Between amount cash ows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years Over 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2016 Forward foreign currency contracts 32 62 56 6 Commodity contracts 14 18 13 5 Cross currency swaps 188 193 88 2 1 108 142 113 19 13 1 108 At 31 March 2015 Forward foreign currency contracts 21 7 8 1 Commodity contracts 5 9 6 2 1 Cross currency swaps 414 407 202 89 4 112 430 405 204 86 3 112 iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The group has entered into several forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps which it has designated as hedges of net investments in its foreign subsidiaries in South Africa, the Czech Republic, Poland, Colombia and Peru to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments, and in Australia in 2015.
Analysis of notional amounts of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is as follows.
Notional amounts have been translated to US dollars at the closing rate at 31 March.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Forward foreign currency contracts: Australian dollar 515 Colombian peso 455 439 Czech koruna 208 192 Peruvian nuevo sol 304 257 Polish zloty 189 164 South African rand 378 513 Cross currency swaps: Czech koruna 160 297 Polish zloty 92 South African rand 95 116 1,789 2,585 Held for trading derivative financial instruments i Interest rate swaps The group has entered into interest rate swaps to manage exposures to uctuations in interest rates.
The derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash ows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
ii Forward foreign currency contracts The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports and to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
iii Cross currency swaps The group has entered into cross currency swaps to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash ows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
iv Commodity contracts The group has entered into commodity contracts to manage the future price of commodities.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value loss gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 2016 2015 US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps 37 39 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 28 428 Forward foreign currency contracts 117 48 Fair value loss gain on forward foreign currency contracts transferred from other comprehensive loss 17 8 Cross currency swaps 136 52 Cross currency swaps designated as fair value hedges 5 Ineffectiveness arising from cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 5 7 Other fair value losses 1 13 485 Other financial instruments: Early redemption costs see note 4 48 Other fair value gains 16 17 Non-current borrowings designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge 28 428 Total fair value loss gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 25 26 Fair value gains and losses on borrowings and nancing-related derivative financial instruments were recognised as part of net finance costs.
Fair value gains and losses on all other derivative financial instruments were recognised in operating profit.
Other financial instruments disclosures Reconciliation of total financial instruments The table below reconciles the groups accounting categorisation of financial assets and liabilities based on initial recognition to the classes of assets and liabilities as shown on the face of the balance sheet.
Fair value Financial Not through liabilities held categorised income Loans and Available at amortised as a financial Nonstatement receivables for sale cost instrument Total current Current US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2016 Assets Available for sale investments 19 19 19 Derivative financial instruments 846 846 565 281 Trade and other receivables 1,589 274 1,863 121 1,742 Cash and cash equivalents 1,430 1,430 1,430 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 239 239 26 213 Borrowings 11,740 11,740 8,814 2,926 Trade and other payables 3,347 551 3,898 28 3,870 At 31 March 2015 Assets Available for sale investments 21 21 21 Derivative financial instruments 1,233 1,233 770 463 Trade and other receivables 1,541 296 1,837 126 1,711 Cash and cash equivalents 965 965 965 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 111 111 10 101 Borrowings 12,544 12,544 10,583 1,961 Trade and other payables 3,173 573 3,746 18 3,728 148 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
Other financial instruments disclosures continued Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The following table provides details of financial assets and liabilities that are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements, or similar agreements.
Related amounts of financial Net amounts instruments Gross amounts Gross amounts recognised in not set off in of financial of financial the balance the balance assets liabilities sheet sheet Net amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2016 Assets Derivative financial instruments 846 846 166 680 Cash and cash equivalents 1,446 16 1,430 1,430 Liabilities Borrowings 16 11,756 11,740 11,740 Derivative financial instruments 239 239 166 73 At 31 March 2015 Assets Derivative financial instruments 1,233 1,233 111 1,122 Cash and cash equivalents 982 17 965 965 Liabilities Borrowings 17 12,561 12,544 12,544 Derivative financial instruments 111 111 111 For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangements above, each party to the agreement will have the option to settle the amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
A default event includes failure by a party to make a payment when due: failure by a party to perform any other obligation required by the agreement if such failure is not remedied within the periods dened in each contract: or bankruptcy.
The group holds other receivables and borrowings balances with the same financial counterparties.
Where these arrangements meet the set-off rules under IFRS, the balances have been reported net on the balance sheet.
Provisions Demerged Postentities and retirement  litigation benets related Restructuring related contracts Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2014 113 246 216 82 55 109 62 883 Exchange adjustments 17 51 14 14 9 15 5 125 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 6 27 14 29 8 7 10 101 Amounts reversed 5 29 7 8 16 65 Utilised in the year 6 24 4 17 9 33 12 105 Remeasurements of dened benefit plans recorded in other comprehensive loss 7 7 At 31 March 2015 91 205 183 73 45 60 39 696 Exchange adjustments 1 26 1 1 3 1 33 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 4 23 9 3 19 34 92 Amounts reversed 16 18 29 12 75 Utilised in the year 5 18 39 13 8 22 11 116 Remeasurements of dened benefit plans recorded in other comprehensive loss 5 5 Transfers to trade and other payables 15 15 At 31 March 2016 73 179 134 33 53 22 50 544 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Provisions continued 2016 2015 US$m US$m Analysed as: Current 270 358 Non-current 274 338 544 696 Demerged entities and litigation During the year ended 31 March 1998 the group recognised a provision of US$73 million for the disposal of certain demerged entities in relation to equity injections which were not regarded as recoverable, as well as potential liabilities arising on warranties and the sale agreements.
During the year ended 31 March 2016 US$1 million 2015: US$1 million of this provision was utilised in regard to costs associated with SAB Ltds previously disposed of remaining retail interests.
The residual balance of US$4 million relates mainly to the disposal of OK Bazaars 1929 Ltd to Shoprite Holdings Ltd Shoprite.
Asdisclosed in previous annual reports, a number of claims were made by Shoprite in relation to the valuation of the net assets of OK Bazaars at the time of the sale and for alleged breaches by SAB Ltd of warranties contained in the sale agreements.
These claims are being contested by SAB Ltd.
There are US$69 million 2015: US$85 million of provisions in respect of outstanding litigation within various operations, based on managements expectation that the outcomes of these disputes are expected to be resolved within the forthcoming four years.
While a provision for claims has been recorded, the actual outcome of the disputes and the timing of the resolution cannot be estimated by the directors at this time.
The further information ordinarily required by IAS 37, Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets has not been disclosed on the grounds that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the disputes.
Post-retirement benets The provision for post-retirement benets represents the provision for medical benets for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, forpost-retirement medical and life insurance benets for eligible employees and their dependants in Europe, medical and other benets in Latin America, and pension provisions for employees primarily in Latin America, Asia Pacic and Europe.
The principal assumptions on which these provisions are based are disclosed in note 30.
Taxation-related The group has recognised various provisions in relation to taxation exposures it believes may arise.
The provisions principally relate to non-corporate taxation and interest and penalties on corporate taxation in respect of a number of group companies.
Any settlement in respect of these amounts will occur as and when the assessments are nalised with the respective tax authorities.
Restructuring This includes the remaining provision for restructuring costs in Australia and Europe which are expected to be utilised over the course of the next three years.
Payroll-related This principally relates to employee entitlement provisions of US$24 million 2015: US$23 million in Asia Pacic and employee long service awards ofUS$13 million 2015: US$15 million in South Africa.
Onerous contracts This includes provisions for unfavourable supply contracts for malt, glass, aluminium cans and concentrated fruit juice for non-alcoholic beverages, as well as provisions for surplus property leases in Australia which management expects to be utilised within four years.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are environmental provisions and other provisions.
These are primarily expected to be utilised within four years.
150 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Share capital 2016 2015 US$m US$m Group and company Called up, allotted and fully paid share capital 1,679,641,620 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2015: 1,675,670,012 168 168 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2015: 50,000 168 168 Ordinary shares of Deferred Nominal 10 US cents shares of value each 1 each US$m At 1 April 2014 1,672,647,930 50,000 167 Issue of shares share incentive plans 3,022,082 1 At 31 March 2015 1,675,670,012 50,000 168 Issue of shares share incentive plans 3,971,608 At 31 March 2016 1,679,641,620 50,000 168 Changes to authorised share capital With effect from 1 October 2009 the company adopted new articles of association which removed any previous limit on the authorised share capital.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share plans.
Changes to issued share capital During the year the company issued 3,971,608 2015: 3,022,082 new ordinary shares of 10 US cents to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the groups share purchase, option and award schemes, for consideration of US$97 million 2015: US$62 million.
Rights and restrictions relating to share capital Convertible participating shares Convertible participating shares were originally issued to Altria as part of the Miller Brewing Company transaction in 2002 but were subsequently converted into ordinary shares.
There are no convertible participating shares currently in issue.
Altria is however entitled to require the company to convert its ordinary shares back into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
If Altrias ordinary shares were converted into convertible participating shares, the convertible participating shares would rank pari passu with the ordinary shares of the company in relation to a distribution of the profits of the company and a return of capital.
On a poll vote at general meetings of the company, Altria would be entitled to vote in respect of its convertible participating shares on the basis of one-tenth of a vote for every convertible participating share on all resolutions other than a resolution: i proposed by any person other than Altria, to wind up the company: ii proposed by any person other than Altria, to appoint an administrator or to approve any arrangement with the companys creditors: iii proposed by the board, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company: or iv proposed by any person other than Altria, to alter any of the class rights attaching to the convertible participating shares or to approve the creation of any new class of shares, in which case Altria would be entitled on a poll to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each convertible participating share.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued Conversion into ordinary shares If Altrias ordinary shares are converted into convertible participating shares, the provisions governing possible conversion back into ordinary shares would apply.
These state that upon a transfer of convertible participating shares by Altria to any person other than to an afliate of Altria, such convertible participating shares shall convert into ordinary shares.
In addition, Altria is entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares in the event of a takeover offer for the company, or a third party acquiring more than a 24.99% voting shareholding, provided certain conditions are met.
The company must use its best endeavours to procure that the ordinary shares arising on conversion of the convertible participating shares are admitted to the Ofcial List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, admitted to listing and trading on the JSE Ltd, and admitted to listing and trading on any other stock exchange upon which the ordinary shares are from time to time listed and traded, but no admission to listing or trading need be sought for the convertible participating shares while they remain convertible participating shares.
Deferred shares The deferred shares do not carry any voting rights and do not entitle their holders to receive any dividends or other distributions.
In the event of a winding up deferred shareholders would receive no more than the nominal value.
Deferred shares represent the only non-equity share capital of thegroup.
Share-based incentives The group operates various share incentive plans.
The share incentives outstanding are summarised as follows.
2016 2015 Scheme Number Number GBP share options 8,052,528 10,620,013 ZAR share options 4,511,775 7,301,172 GBP stock appreciation rights SARs 9,185,858 7,083,490 ZAR stock appreciation rights SARs 2,479,045 1,846,842 GBP performance share awards 6,502,184 6,289,875 GBP value share awards 13,611,179 11,269,028 1 Total share incentives outstanding 44,342,569 44,410,420 1 Total share incentives outstanding exclude shares relating to the BBBEE scheme.
Based on the TSR performance to 31 March 2016, only 858,391 of the theoretical maximum 13,611,179 GBP value share awards would vest.
Incentives involving 7,778,764 shares were granted, and 5,201,439 share incentives were exercised, released or lapsed after 31 March 2016 and before the date of signing of these financial statements.
Further details relating to all of the share incentive schemes can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 92.
The exercise prices of incentives outstanding at 31 March 2016 ranged from 0 to 35.64 and ZAR96.95 to ZAR651.00 2015: 0 to 35.64 and ZAR96.95 to ZAR611.99.
The movement in share awards outstanding is summarised in the following tables.
GBP share options GBP share options include share options granted under the Executive Share Option Plan 2008, the Approved Executive Share Option Plan 2008, the Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme, the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and the International Employee Share Scheme.
No further grants can be made under the now closed Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme, the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, or the International Employee Share Scheme, although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average fair average value at grant Number exercise price date of options GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2014 16,035,174 19.36 Granted 240,700 33.13 5.62 Lapsed 416,624 23.47 Exercised 5,239,237 17.03 Outstanding at 31 March 2015 10,620,013 20.66 Granted 248,108 34.94 5.60 Lapsed 490,200 24.24 Exercised 2,325,393 18.02 Outstanding at 31 March 2016 8,052,528 21.64 152 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Share capital continued ZAR share options Share options designated in ZAR include share options granted under the South African Executive Share Option Plan 2008 and the Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa.
No further grants can be made under the Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa, although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average fair average value at grant Number exercise price date of options ZAR ZAR Outstanding at 1 April 2014 10,108,718 277.52 Lapsed 242,037 381.69 Exercised 2,565,509 224.27 Outstanding at 31 March 2015 7,301,172 292.77 Lapsed 133,368 389.06 Exercised 2,656,029 261.89 Outstanding at 31 March 2016 4,511,775 308.10 GBP SARs GBP SARs include stock appreciation rights granted under the Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2008 and the International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme.
No further grants can be made under the now closed International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme, although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average fair average value at grant Number exercise price date of SARs GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2014 5,170,646 27.25 Granted 2,971,414 33.13 5.65 Lapsed 537,598 31.96 Exercised 520,972 13.91 Outstanding at 31 March 2015 7,083,490 30.34 Granted 3,033,727 34.94 5.55 Lapsed 377,901 33.44 Exercised 553,458 16.90 Outstanding at 31 March 2016 9,185,858 32.54 ZAR SARs ZAR SARs include stock appreciation rights granted under the South African Stock Appreciation Rights Sub-Plan 2008.
Weighted Weighted average fair average value at grant Number exercise price date of SARs ZAR ZAR Outstanding at 1 April 2014 1,178,200 527.49 Granted 824,378 590.38 160.13 Lapsed 133,946 554.28 Exercised 21,790 578.78 Outstanding at 31 March 2015 1,846,842 553.02 Granted 841,690 651.00 170.09 Lapsed 192,787 569.99 Exercised 16,700 550.64 Outstanding at 31 March 2016 2,479,045 584.98 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued GBP performance share awards GBP performance share awards include awards made under the Executive Share Award Plan 2008, the Performance Share Award Scheme and the International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme.
No further awards can be made under the Performance Share Award Scheme and the International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme, although outstanding awards remain and will vest, subject to the achievement of their respective performance conditions on their vesting date.
Weighted Weighted average fair average value at grant Number exercise price date of awards GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2014 6,802,427 Granted 2,148,339 30.81 Lapsed 1,455,340 Released to participants 1,205,551 Outstanding at 31 March 2015 6,289,875 Granted 3,057,295 34.18 Lapsed 2,840,638 Released to participants 4,348 Outstanding at 31 March 2016 6,502,184 GBP value share awards The 3,167,663 2015: 3,295,212 value share awards granted during the year ended 31 March 2016 represent the theoretical maximum number ofawards that could possibly vest in the future, although in practice it is extremely unlikely that this number of awards would be released.
Number of Weighted value shares Weighted average fair per 10 million Theoretical average value at grant of additional maximum exercise price date value shares at cap GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2014 2,848 11,297,444 Granted 680 3,295,212 8.18 Lapsed 368 3,011,712 Released to participants 485 311,916 Outstanding at 31 March 2015 2,675 11,269,028 Granted 563 3,167,663 6.84 Lapsed 705,472 Released to participants 148 120,040 Outstanding at 31 March 2016 3,090 13,611,179 Of the value share awards released, 37,503 2015: 328,554 shares were deferred and remain subject to a risk of forfeiture.
154 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Share capital continued Outstanding share incentives The following table summarises information about share incentives outstanding at 31 March.
Share capital continued Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual life contractual life Number in years Number in years Range of exercise prices 2016 2016 2015 2015 ZAR SARs R520 R530 985,000 7.7 1,097,800 8.7 R580 R590 677,488 8.2 732,556 9.2 R610 R620 16,486 8.7 16,486 9.7 R650 R660 800,071 9.2 2,479,045 8.3 1,846,842 8.9 GBP performance share awards 0 6,502,184 1.5 6,289,875 1.2 GBP value share awards 0 13,611,179 1.7 11,269,028 2.2 Total share incentives outstanding 44,342,569 4.3 44,410,420 4.7 Exercisable share incentives The following table summarises information about exercisable share incentives outstanding at 31 March.
Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price 2016 2016 2015 2015 GBP share options 6,772,525 19.93 6,106,401 17.28 ZAR share options 4,029,175 283.79 4,503,152 221.77 GBP SARs 689,386 16.89 1,053,044 14.36 ZAR SARs 34,100 567.08 11,500 545.96 Share incentives exercised or released The weighted average market prices of the groups shares at the date of exercise or release for share incentives exercised or released during the year were as follows.
Weighted Weighted average average market market Number price Number price 2016 2016 2015 2015 Share incentives designated in GBP 3,003,239 37.69 7,277,676 34.46 Share incentives designated in ZAR 2,672,729 807.93 2,587,299 618.50 Total share incentives exercised or released during the year 5,675,968 9,864,975 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme On 9 June 2010 the initial allocation of participation rights was made in relation to the BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
A total of 46.2 million new shares in The South African Breweries Pty Ltd SAB, representing 8.45% of SABs enlarged issued share capital, were issued.
The shares in SAB will be exchanged at the end of the estimated 10-year scheme term for shares in SABMiller plc based on a repurchase formula linked, inter alia, to the operating performance of SAB.
No performance conditions and exercise prices are attached to these shares, although the employee component has a four-year vesting period.
The weighted average fair value of each SAB share at the grant date was ZAR40.
Weighted average fair value assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a binomial model approach except for the awards under Performance Share Award schemes, the Executive Share Award Plan 2008 including value share awards and the BBBEE scheme which have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
The Monte Carlo simulation methodology is necessary for valuing share-based payments with TSR performance hurdles.
This is achieved by projecting SABMiller plcs share price forwards, together with those of companies in the same comparator group, over the vesting period and or life of the awards after considering their respective volatilities.
156 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Share capital continued The following weighted average assumptions were used in these option pricing models during the year.
2016 2015 Share price South African share option scheme ZAR 645.35 583.97 All other schemes GBP 35.27 32.77 Exercise price South African share option scheme ZAR 651.00 590.36 All other schemes GBP 12.07 12.18 Expected volatility all schemes % 21.3 21.3 Dividend yield all schemes % 2.1 2.1 Annual forfeiture rate South African share option scheme % 5.0 5.0 All other schemes % 3.0 3.0 Risk-free interest rate South African share option scheme % 7.2 7.5 All other schemes % 1.3 1.7 The calculation is based on the weighted fair value of issues made during the year.
Expected volatility is calculated by assessing the historical share price data in the United Kingdom and South Africa from seven years prior to the grant date.
Retained earnings and other reserves a.
Retained earnings Treasury and Retained EBT shares earnings Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2014 659 16,544 15,885 profit for the year 3,299 3,299 Other comprehensive loss 153 153 Remeasurements of dened benefit plans taken to other comprehensive loss 7 7 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss 216 216 Deferred tax credit on items taken to other comprehensive loss 70 70 Dividends paid 1,705 1,705 Utilisation of merger relief reserve 358 358 Share of associates and joint ventures other reserves moves 6 6 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 146 146 Utilisation of treasury and EBT shares 125 28 97 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 117 117 At 31 March 2015 680 18,426 17,746 profit for the year 2,699 2,699 Other comprehensive income 48 48 Remeasurements of dened benefit plans taken to other comprehensive income 5 5 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive income 72 72 Deferred tax charge on items taken to other comprehensive income 29 29 Dividends paid 1,860 1,860 Utilisation of merger relief reserve 335 335 Share of associates and joint ventures other reserves moves 2 2 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 149 149 Utilisation of treasury and EBT shares 28 12 16 Transfer between reserves 78 78 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 90 90 At 31 March 2016 801 19,806 19,005 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Retained earnings and other reserves continued Treasury and EBT shares reserve On 26 February 2009 77,368,338 SABMiller plc non-voting convertible shares were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by the company to be held as treasury shares.
While the purchase price for each share was 10.54, the whole amount of the consideration was paid between group companies.
During 2016, 1,041,915 treasury shares 2015: 3,320,906 shares were used to directly satisfy share awards and 1,426 treasury shares were transferred to the ESPP Trust ESPPT.
There are three employee benefit trusts currently in operation, being the SABMiller Employees benefit Trust the EBT, the ESPPT and the SABMiller Associated Companies Employees benefit Trust the AC-EBT.
The EBT holds shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of the various share incentive plans, further details of which are disclosed in the directors remuneration report.
At 31 March 2016 the EBT held 11,476,675 shares 2015: 8,997,945 shares which cost US$357 million 2015: US$228 million and had a market value of US$701 million 2015: US$471 million.
These shares have been treated as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The EBT used funds provided by SABMiller plc to purchase such of the shares as were purchased in the market.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
The AC-EBT holds shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of providing share incentives for employees of companies in which SABMiller has a significant economic and strategic interest but over which it does not have management control.
At 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 the AC-EBT did not hold any shares.
Shares currently held in each EBT rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares, but in both cases the trustees have elected to waive dividends and decline from voting shares, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares beneficially owned by a participant.
There were no beneficially owned shares in either EBT as at 31 March 2016 2015: nil.
The ESPPT holds shares in SABMiller plc for the benefit of participants in the UK Employee Share Purchase Plan which is a UK broad-based share incentive plan that was established and operated for the first time during the year.
At 31 March 2016 the ESPPT held 1,426 matching shares which were transferred from treasury shares during the year.
Shares currently held in the ESPPT rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares.
Other reserves The analysis of other reserves is as follows.
Foreign Net currency Cash ow investment Available translation hedging hedging for sale reserve reserve reserve reserve Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2014 539 11 176 2 702 Currency translation differences 5,308 5,308 Net investment hedges 608 608 Cash ow hedges 30 30 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive loss 3 3 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss 79 3 82 At 31 March 2015 5,926 35 432 2 5,457 Currency translation differences 1,176 1,176 Net investment hedges 88 88 Cash ow hedges 64 64 Transfer between reserves 78 78 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive income 18 18 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss 54 35 89 At 31 March 2016 7,234 46 520 2 6,758 Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates.
158 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27a.
Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations 2016 2015 US$m US$m profit for the year 2,922 3,557 Taxation 1,152 1,273 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,126 1,083 Net finance costs 506 637 Operating profit 3,454 4,384 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 538 602 Containers 205 219 Container breakages, shrinkages and write-offs 41 57 profit on disposal of businesses 45 profit on disposal of available for sale investments 1 profit on disposal of investments in associates 403 Gain on dilution of investment in associates 2 profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 34 18 Loss on disposal of intangibles 2 Amortisation of intangible assets 352 410 Impairment of goodwill 286 Impairment of intangible assets 6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 7 73 Impairment of investment in associate 372 Impairment of working capital balances 44 68 Amortisation of advances to customers 34 35 Unrealised net fair value losses gains on derivatives included in operating profit 20 15 Dividends received from other investments 1 Charge with respect to share options 83 112 Charge with respect to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme 7 5 Other non-cash movements 70 92 Net cash generated from operations before working capital movements 5,055 5,680 Increase in inventories 112 30 Increase in trade and other receivables 204 218 Increase in trade and other payables 422 396 Decrease in provisions 41 13 Decrease in post-retirement benefit provisions 4 3 Net cash generated from operations 5,116 5,812 27b.
Reconciliation of net cash generated from operating activities to free cash flow 2016 2015 US$m US$m Net cash generated from operating activities 3,415 3,722 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,210 1,394 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 74 68 Purchase of intangible assets 103 178 Investments in joint ventures 301 216 Investments in associates 4 3 Dividends received from joint ventures 998 976 Dividends received from associates 253 430 Dividends received from other investments 1 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 153 173 Free cash ow 2,969 3,233 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 159 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27c.
Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet are reconciled to cash and cash equivalents on the cash ow statement as follows.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents balance sheet 1,430 965 Overdrafts 159 215 Cash and cash equivalents cash ow statement 1,271 750 Net debt is analysed as follows.
Major non-cash transactions Major non-cash transactions included the following.
In 2016 impairments relating to the groups investment in Castels operations in Angola and property, plant and equipment in South Sudan.
In 2016 the loan guarantee provision in Angola.
In 2016 the release of provisions following the successful resolution of certain claims in Australia.
In 2016 accelerated depreciation incurred in relation to the closure of MillerCoors Eden brewery.
In 2016 the groups share of the gain realised on the change of control arising from Castels acquisition of further interests in its Tunisian operation.
In 2015 impairment charges relating to the groups business in India in Asia Pacic and the groups share of the impairment charges taken by Anadolu Efes in relation to its beer businesses in Russia and Ukraine.
Additionally, impairment charges in Australia including those in 2015 relating to the pending closure of the Campbelltown cidery and Port Melbourne brewery.
Additional profit realised in 2015 on the disposal of the groups Angolan operations to Castel in Africa in 2012.
In 2015 the recycling of foreign currency translation reserves following the repayment of an intercompany loan.
Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions In June 2015, the group acquired 100% of Meantime Brewing Company Ltd, a modern UK craft brewer, with a brewery in Greenwich, London and a number of retail sites for consideration of US$191 million net of cash acquired.
The business combination has been accounted for using the acquisition method.
160 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases at 31 March are as follows.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Land and buildings Within one year 66 67 Later than one year and less than five years 78 134 After five years 18 24 162 225 Plant, vehicles and systems Within one year 42 43 Later than one year and less than five years 59 79 After five years 3 11 104 133 b.
Other commitments 2016 2015 US$m US$m Capital commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure for property, plant and equipment 190 151 Contracts placed for future expenditure for intangible assets 1 1 Share of capital commitments of joint ventures 65 66 Other commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure 1,294 1,799 Share of joint ventures other commitments 512 390 Contracts placed for future expenditure in 2016 primarily relate to minimum purchase commitments for raw materials and packaging materials, which are principally due between 2016 and 2021.
The groups share of joint ventures other commitments primarily relate to MillerCoors various long-term non-cancellable advertising and promotion commitments.
c. Contingent liabilities and guarantees 2016 2015 US$m US$m Guarantees to third parties 11 9 Other contingent liabilities 6 6 17 15 Guarantees to third parties These primarily relate to guarantees given by Grolsch and Nile Breweries Ltd to banks in relation to loans taken out by third party trade customers and suppliers respectively, and by SABMiller plc in relation to loans taken out by non-controlling interests in Ethiopia.
Other SABMiller and Altria entered into a tax matters agreement the Agreement on 30 May 2002 to regulate the conduct of tax matters between them with regard to the acquisition of Miller and to allocate responsibility for contingent tax costs.
SABMiller has agreed to indemnify Altria against any taxes, losses, liabilities and costs that Altria incurs arising out of or in connection with a breach by SABMiller of any representation, agreement or covenant in the Agreement, subject to certain exceptions.
The group has a number of activities in a wide variety of geographic areas and is subject to certain legal claims incidental to its operations.
In the opinion of the directors, after taking appropriate legal advice, these claims are not expected to have, either individually or in aggregate, a material adverse effect upon the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
The group has exposures to various environmental risks.
Although it is difficult to predict the groups liability with respect to these risks, future payments, if any, would be expected to be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material to the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
As a result of the AB InBev offer, the group has various commitments which are contingent on the completion of the transaction, including advisers fees and staff-related costs, principally reecting the impact of accelerated vesting of share-based compensation.
These contingent liabilities, which have not been recognised in the groups results for the year ended 31 March 2016, areestimated to range from US$250 million to US$300 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 161 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both dened contribution and dened benefit schemes.
The majority of the schemes are funded and the schemes assets are held independently of the groups nances.
The assets of the schemes do not include any of the groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by or other assets used by the group.
Pension and post-retirement benefit costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualied actuaries.
Generally, the projected unit method is applied to measure the dened benefit scheme liabilities.
The group also provides medical benets, which are mainly unfunded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, the Netherlands and Latin America.
The total pension and post-retirement medical benefit costs recognised in the income statement are as follows.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Dened contribution scheme costs 89 98 Dened benefit pension plan costs 18 19 Post-retirement medical and other benefit costs 5 8 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows.
2016 2015 US$m US$m Portion of dened benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 405 405 Fair value of plan assets 473 457 Surplus of funded plans 68 52 Impact of asset ceiling 73 57 deficit of funded plans 5 5 Portion of dened benefit obligation that is unfunded 109 124 Medical and other post-retirement benets 65 76 Provisions for dened benefit plans 179 205 Accruals for dened contribution plans 4 4 The group operates various dened contribution and dened benefit schemes.
Details of the main dened benefit schemes are provided below.
Latin America pension plans The group operates a number of pension plans throughout Latin America.
Details of the major plan are provided below.
The Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan is an unfunded plan of the dened benefit type and covers all salaried and hourly employees in Colombia who are not covered by social security or who have at least 10 years of service prior to 1 January 1967.
The plan is nanced entirely through company reserves and there are no external assets.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan was carried out by independent professionally qualied actuaries at 28 February 2016 using the projected unit credit method.
All salaried employees are now covered by social security or private pension fund provisions.
The principal economic assumptions used in the preparation of the pension valuations are shown below and take into consideration changes in the Colombian economy.
Grolsch pension scheme The Grolsch pension scheme, named Stichting Pensioenfonds van fide Grolsche Bierbrouwerij, is a funded plan of the dened benefit type, based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The pension scheme is managed through a separate entity with its own board.
The latest valuation of the Grolsch pension scheme was carried out at 31 March 2016 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Carlton & United Breweries pension scheme The Carlton & United Breweries pension scheme is a superannuation fund that provides accumulation style and dened benets to employees.
The company funds the dened benets, administration and insurance costs of the scheme as a benefit to employees who elect to be members of this scheme.
The board of trustees is responsible for the governance of the scheme on behalf of the members.
The latest actuarial valuation of the Carlton & United Breweries pension scheme was carried out at 30 June 2014 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Thevaluation update for the scheme was carried out at 31 March 2016 by an independent actuary.
The dened benets section is now closed tonew members.
162 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued South Africa pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout South Africa.
Details of the major schemes are provided below.
The ABI Pension Fund, Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund are funded schemes of the dened benefit type based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The governance of the schemes is the responsibility of the boards of trustees on behalf of the members, subject to the provisions of local legislation and the rules for each scheme.
The ABI Pension Fund no longer has any active or pensioner members.
There are surplus assets remaining in the scheme that will be distributed toformer members.
The Suncrush Pension Fund has pensioners where the pension liabilities have been outsourced to an insurance provider.
The trustees have made aprovision in the fund rules for the active members such that benets will be paid to members on exit for their benets valued as at 1 July 2005.
Nofurther benets are being accrued for active members.
The Suncrush Retirement Fund has no liabilities and is in the process of being closed down.
Risks The most significant risks the group is exposed to through its dened benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans are as follows.
Volatility of investment returns Those schemes that hold assets are exposed to volatility in investment returns on those assets, which may be higher or lower than the assumed expected return on those assets.
Asset mix is varied for each individual scheme to ensure investment volatility risk is appropriately managed.
Salary, pension and healthcare cost ination risk Scheme liabilities for the dened benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans are calculated based on assumed rates of salary, pension and or healthcare cost ination.
Increases in these ination rates will lead to higher liabilities.
Change in discount rate A decrease in corporate bond yields will result in a decrease in the discount rate and therefore an increase in scheme liabilities.
This will be partially offset by an increase in the value of plan assets where the scheme holds bonds.
Mortality rates The majority of the groups obligations to provide benets under both the dened benefit pension plans and medical and other post-retirement benets are for the life of the member.
Increases in life expectancy will result in increases in the scheme liabilities associated with the schemes.
The group ensures mortality rate assumptions incorporated in the actuarial calculations of the present value of scheme liabilities are from reliable sources.
Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 March expressed as weighted averages Medical and other Dened benefit pension plans post-retirement benets Latin America Grolsch Other South Africa Other At 31 March 2016 Discount rate % 8.5 2.1 2.8 10.2 7.1 Salary ination % 4.3 1.0 2.5 Pension ination % 4.3 0.7 2.7 Healthcare cost ination % 9.1 4.0 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 56 67 65 63 59 Females 52 67 65 63 55 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 30 22 15 16 27 Females 38 24 19 20 34 Retiring in 20 years: Males 30 24 15 16 27 Females 38 26 19 20 34 At 31 March 2015 Discount rate % 6.9 1.9 2.4 8.0 6.0 Salary ination % 3.0 1.0 2.6 Pension ination % 3.0 0.7 3.2 Healthcare cost ination % 7.1 2.9 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 56 67 65 63 58 Females 51 67 65 63 55 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 23 21 15 16 22 Females 32 24 20 20 29 Retiring in 20 years: Males 23 24 16 16 22 Females 32 26 20 20 29 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 163 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The movements in the dened benefit pension plan liabilities are as follows.
Dened benefit pension plans Latin America Grolsch Other Total Present Present Present Present value of value of Fair value value of Fair value value of Fair value scheme scheme of plan scheme of plan scheme of plan liabilities liabilities assets Total liabilities assets Total liabilities assets Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2014 141 338 408 70 81 71 10 560 479 81 Benets paid 13 11 11 16 14 2 40 25 15 Contributions paid by plan participants 2 2 1 1 3 3 Employer contributions 7 7 1 1 8 8 Current service cost 1 4 4 3 3 8 8 Past service cost 1 1 1 Interest costs income 9 10 12 2 3 3 22 15 7 Remeasurements: 6 105 95 10 2 2 113 97 16 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 95 95 95 95 Gain loss from change in demographic assumptions 6 2 2 4 4 Loss from change in financial assumptions 107 107 2 2 109 109 Experience losses gains 12 4 4 2 2 8 2 6 Exchange adjustments 32 92 106 14 14 11 3 138 117 21 At 31 March 2015 113 356 405 49 60 52 8 529 457 72 Benets paid 9 10 10 5 4 1 24 14 10 Contributions paid by plan participants 2 2 2 2 Employer contributions 6 6 6 6 Current service cost 1 5 5 3 3 9 9 Past service cost 1 1 1 Interest costs income 7 7 7 1 1 15 8 7 Remeasurements: 22 6 16 22 6 16 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 6 6 6 6 Gain from change in financial assumptions 3 22 22 25 25 Experience losses 3 3 3 Exchange adjustments 15 21 24 3 2 2 4 22 18 At 31 March 2016 98 359 426 67 57 47 10 514 473 41 164 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The fair values of assets in pension schemes are as follows.
Dened benefit pension plans Latin America Grolsch Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2016 Equities quoted 139 11 150 Bonds quoted 269 12 281 Cash and cash equivalents 18 18 Property and other 18 6 24 Total fair value of assets 426 47 473 Present value of scheme liabilities 98 359 57 514 deficit surplus in the scheme 98 67 10 41 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 67 6 73 Pension liability recognised 98 16 114 At 31 March 2015 Equities quoted 138 12 150 Bonds quoted 248 16 264 Cash and cash equivalents 2 22 24 Property and other 17 2 19 Total fair value of assets 405 52 457 Present value of scheme liabilities 113 356 60 529 deficit surplus in the scheme 113 49 8 72 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 49 8 57 Pension liability recognised 113 16 129 In respect of dened benefit pension plans in South Africa, which are included in Other, the pension asset recognised is limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
Pension fund assets have not been recognised as the surplus apportionment exercise required in terms of the South African legislation has not yet been completed.
The pension asset recognised in respect of Grolsch is limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The limit has been set equal to nil due to the terms of the pension agreement with the pension fund.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 165 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The movements in the asset ceiling are as follows.
Dened benefit pension plans Grolsch Other Total US$m US$m US$m Asset ceiling at 1 April 2014 70 8 78 Interest costs 2 1 3 Change in the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest costs 9 1 8 Exchange adjustments 14 2 16 Asset ceiling at 31 March 2015 49 8 57 Interest costs 1 1 Change in the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest costs 12 12 Exchange adjustments 5 2 3 Asset ceiling at 31 March 2016 67 6 73 The movements in the post-employment medical benefit liabilities are as follows.
The obligations are wholly unfunded.
Medical and other post-retirement benets South Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m Present value of scheme liabilities at 1 April 2014 46 41 87 Benets paid 2 2 Employer contributions 2 2 Current service cost 1 2 3 Interest costs 4 1 5 Remeasurements: 1 1 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 1 1 Loss from change in financial assumptions 1 1 Experience gains 2 1 3 Exchange adjustments 6 8 14 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2015 42 34 76 Benets paid 2 2 Employer contributions 2 2 Current service cost 1 1 Interest costs 3 1 4 Remeasurements: 4 3 1 Gain from change in financial assumptions 1 1 2 Experience gains losses 3 4 1 Exchange adjustments 7 4 11 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2016 33 32 65 166 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The sensitivity of the pension plan and medical and other post-retirement benefit liabilities at 31 March 2016 to changes in the principal actuarial assumptions is as follows.
Medical and other Dened benefit pension plans post-retirement benets Change in Increase Decrease Increase Decrease assumption US$m US$m US$m US$m Discount rate 1% 69 90 5 6 Salary growth rate 1% 7 6 Pension growth rate 1% 83 47 Life expectancy 1 year 11 11 2 2 Healthcare cost ination 1% 6 5 The above sensitivity analyses assume a change in a single assumption while all other assumptions are held constant.
When calculating the sensitivities, the present value of the dened benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, consistent with the method used to calculate the dened benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet.
The methods and assumptions used to prepare the sensitivity analyses are consistent with those used in the prior year.
For funded dened benefit plans, the group is required to provide funding where the fair value of the assets of the scheme are not sufficient to meet the dened benefit obligations.
The South Africa pension schemes no longer have any active members, therefore, funding will only be required in the event that the scheme becomes less than 100% funded.
The remaining funded dened benefit plans are funded using recommendations provided by the schemes actuaries.
Contributions expected to be paid into the groups major dened benefit schemes during the year ending 31 March 2017 are US$18 million.
The weighted average duration of the dened benefit obligation is 16 years.
Parties with significant inuence over the group: Altria Group, Inc Altria and the Santo Domingo Group SDG Altria is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 26.7% equity shareholding.
There were no transactions with Altria during the year.
SDG is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 14.0% equity shareholding in SABMiller plc.
During the year the group made purchases of logistics services and natural gas from SDG companies totalling US$5 million 2015: US$nil.
At 31 March 2016 US$1 million 2015: US$nil was owing to SDG companies.
Associates and joint ventures Details relating to transactions with associates and joint ventures are analysed below.
2016 2015 US$m US$m 1 Purchases from associates 165 173 2 Purchases from joint ventures 103 88 3 Sales to associates 38 9 4 Sales to joint ventures 19 21 5 Dividends received from associates 253 423 6 Dividends received from joint ventures 998 976 7 Royalties received from associates 16 18 8 Royalties received from joint ventures 14 1 9 Management fees, guarantee fees and other recoveries received from associates 14 14 10 Marketing fees paid to associates 1 1 11 Management fees paid to joint ventures 2 2 12 Management fees received from joint ventures 1 1 The group purchased canned Coca-Cola products for resale from Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Ltd Coca-Cola Canners : inventory from Distell Group Ltd Distell, Associated Fruit Processors Pty Ltd AFP and Delta Corporation Ltd Delta : and in 2015 accommodation from Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd Tsogo Sun.
2 The group purchased lager from MillerCoors LLC MillerCoors.
3 The group made sales of lager to Delta, Anadolu Efes Biraclk five Malt Sanayii AS Anadolu Efes, International Trade and Supply Ltd ITSL and Distell, and in 2015 to Tsogo Sun.
4 The group made sales to MillerCoors.
5 The group had dividends receivable from China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd CR Snow of US$71 million 2015: US$228 million, Castel of US$89 million 2015: US$108 million, Coca-Cola Canners of US$10 million 2015: US$5 million, Distell of US$15 million 2015: US$18 million, Tsogo Sun of US$nil 2015: US$24 million, Delta of US$19 million 2015: US$18 million, ITSL of US$24 million 2015: US$21 million, Grolsch UK Ltd of US$1 million 2015: US$1 million and Anadolu Efes of US$24 million 2015: US$nil.
6 The group received dividends from MillerCoors.
7 The group received royalties from Delta and Anadolu Efes.
8 The group received royalties from MillerCoors.
9 The group received management fees from Delta, Anadolu Efes and Castel and other recoveries from AFP.
10 The group paid marketing fees to ITSL.
11 The group paid management fees to MillerCoors.
12 The group received management fees from MillerCoors.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 167 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Related party transactions continued 2016 2015 At 31 March US$m US$m 1 Amounts owed by associates 15 28 2 Amounts owed by joint ventures 8 4 3 Amounts owed to associates 36 38 4 Amounts owed to joint ventures 14 18 1 Amounts owed by AFP, Delta, Coca-Cola Canners, Castel and Anadolu Efes.
3 Amounts owed to AFP and Castel.
Guarantees provided in respect of associates bank facilities are detailed in note 21. c. Transactions with key management The group has a related party relationship with the directors of the group and members of the excom as key management.
Key management compensation is provided in note 6c.
Post balance sheet events In May 2016 the South African Competition Tribunal approved, with agreed conditions, the formation of Coca-Cola Beverages Africa, Africas largest soft drinks operation.
The transaction is expected to complete in early July 2016.
168 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as follows.
Effective interest Name Country of incorporation Principal activity 2016 2015 Corporate SABMiller Holdings Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller International Brands Ltd United Kingdom Trademark owner 100% 100% SABMiller Procurement GmbH Switzerland Procurement 100% 100% SABSA Holdings Ltd South Africa Holding company 100% 100% Latin American operations Bavaria SA Colombia Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% Cervecera Hondurea, SA fide CV Honduras Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% 1 Cervecera Nacional CN SA Ecuador Brewing 96% 96% 1 Cervecera Nacional SA Panama Brewing 97% 97% Industrias La Constancia, SA fide CV El Salvador Brewing Soft drinks 100% 100% 1 Unin fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus y Johnston SAA Peru Brewing 94% 94% African operations SABMiller Africa BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller Botswana BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% Accra Brewery Ltd Ghana Brewing 60% 60% 1 Cervejas fide Moambique SA Mozambique Brewing 49% 49% Intafact Beverages Ltd Nigeria Brewing 38% 38% 1 International Breweries plc Nigeria Brewing 36% 36% Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Brewing Soft drinks 31% 31% Nile Breweries Ltd Uganda Brewing 62% 62% 1 Tanzania Breweries Ltd Tanzania Brewing 36% 36% The South African Breweries Pty Ltd South Africa Brewing Holding company 100% 100% 1 Zambian Breweries plc Zambia Brewing Soft drinks 54% 54% Asia Pacic operations Fosters Group Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100% 100% CUB Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% FBG Finance Pty Ltd Australia Financing 100% 100% FBG Treasury Aust Pty Ltd Australia Financing 100% 100% SABMiller Breweries Private Ltd India Brewing 100% 100% European operations Birra Peroni Srl Italy Brewing 100% 100% Grolsche Bierbrouwerij Nederland BV Netherlands Brewing 100% 100% Kompania Piwowarska SA Poland Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brands UK Ltd United Kingdom Sales and distribution 100% 100% Pivovary Topvar as Slovakia Brewing 100% 100% Plzen sk Prazdroj as Czech Republic Brewing 100% 100% Ursus Breweries SA Romania Brewing 99% 99% North American operations SABMiller Holdings Inc USA Holding company Financing 100% 100% 1 Listed in country of incorporation.
The group comprises a large number of companies.
The list above includes those subsidiary undertakings which materially affect the profit or net assets of the group, or a business segment.
The principal country in which each of the above subsidiary undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
A complete list of all subsidiary undertakings is set out in the related undertakings section in this annual report.
Where the groups nominal interest in the equity share capital of an undertaking is less than 50%, the basis on which the undertaking is a subsidiary undertaking of the group is as follows.
African operations The groups effective interest in the majority of its African operations was diluted as a result of the disposal of a 38% interest in SABMiller Africa BV and SABMiller Botswana BV on 1 April 2001, in exchange for a 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests.
The operations continue to be consolidated due to the groups majority shareholdings, and ability to control the operations.
Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd KBL SABMiller Botswana holds a 40% interest in Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd with the remaining 60% interest held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Botswanas shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights of those shares held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africa BVs 10.1% indirect interest is held via a 16.8% interest in Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 169 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Associates and joint ventures The principal associates and joint ventures of the group as at 31 March are as set out below.
Where the groups interest in an associate or a joint venture is held by a subsidiary undertaking which is not wholly owned by the group, the subsidiary undertaking is indicated in a note below.
Effective interest Name Country of incorporation Nature of relationship Principal activity 2016 2015 African operations 1 BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Gibraltar Associate Holding company for subsidiaries 20% 20% principally located in Africa Socit des Brasseries et Glacires France Associate Holding company for subsidiaries 20% 20% 1 Internationales SA principally located in Africa BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Gibraltar Associate Holding company for subsidiaries 27% 27% 1 Angola Ltd principally located in Africa 2,3 Delta Corporation Ltd Zimbabwe Associate Brewing Soft drinks 25% 25% 2,4 Distell Group Ltd South Africa Associate Wines and spirits 27% 27% Asia Pacic operations 1 China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd British Virgin Islands Associate Holding company for brewing 49% 49% subsidiaries located in China European operations 1,2 Anadolu Efes Biraclk five Malt Sanayii AS Turkey Associate Brewing Soft drinks 24% 24% North American operations 1,5 MillerCoors LLC USA Joint venture Brewing 58% 58% 1 These entities report their financial results for each 12-month period ending 31 December.
2 Listed in country of incorporation.
3 Interests in this company are held by SABMiller Africa BV which is held 62% by SABMiller Holdings Ltd. 4 This entity reports its financial results for each 12-month period ending 30 June.
5 SABMiller shares joint control of MillerCoors with Molson Coors Brewing Company under a shareholders agreement.
Voting interests are shared equally between SABMiller and Molson Coors, and each of SABMiller and Molson Coors has equal board representation.
Under the agreement SABMiller has a 58% economic interest in MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% economic interest.
The principal country in which each of the above associated undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
However, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales SA, BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltds Castel and BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltds principal subsidiaries are in Africa, China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd operates in Hong Kong and its principal subsidiaries are in the Peoples Republic of China.
A complete list of all associate and joint venture undertakings is set out in the related undertakings section in this annual report.
170 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet of SABMiller plc at 31 March 2016 2015 Notes US$m US$m Assets Fixed assets Intangible assets 3 133 133 Property, plant and equipment 4 48 44 Investments in subsidiaries 5 14,128 14,069 14,309 14,246 Current assets Loans and other financial assets due after more than one year 6 2,091 5,762 Trade and other receivables due after more than one year 7 15 20 Derivative financial instruments due after more than one year 8 248 388 Loans and other financial assets due within one year 6 4,639 1,142 Trade and other receivables due within one year 7 39 59 Derivative financial instruments due within one year 8 125 20 Cash and cash equivalents 9 878 449 8,035 7,840 Total assets 22,344 22,086 Liabilities Creditors due within one year Derivative financial instruments 8 19 32 Borrowings 10 1,126 460 Trade and other payables 11 188 125 Other financial liabilities 13 65 50 1,398 667 Net current assets 6,637 7,173 Total assets less current liabilities 20,946 21,419 Creditors due after more than one year Derivative financial instruments 8 6 5 Borrowings 10 1,215 1,223 Trade and other payables 11 10 10 Other financial liabilities 13 188 231 1,419 1,469 Net assets 19,527 19,950 Equity Share capital 168 168 Share premium 6,848 6,752 Merger relief reserve 14 3,628 3,963 Other reserves 1,281 1,186 Retained earnings 10,164 10,253 Total equity 19,527 19,950 The notes on pages 173 to 185 are an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 171 to 185 were approved by the board of directors on 10 June 2016 and were signed on its behalf by Alan Clark Domenic fide Lorenzo Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Advantage has been taken of the provisions of section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 which permit the omission of a separate income statement for SABMiller plc.
The profit for the company for the year was US$1,367 million 2015: US$2,141 million.
