SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar Shareholder fraud Independent auditors 2016 Annual General Meeting Shareholders are advised to be wary Ernst & Young LLP 21 June 2016 ofany unsolicited advice or offers, 1 More London Riverside whether over the telephone, through London SE1 2AF Final dividend dates thepost or by email.
If any such Announcement date 19 April 2016 unsolicited communication is received Legal advisers Ex-dividend date 12 May 2016 please check the company or person Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Record date 13 May 2016 contacting you is properly authorised by 65 Fleet Street Last day for DRIP elections 5 June 2016 the Financial Conduct Authority FCA London EG4Y 1HT Payment date 30 June 2016 before getting involved.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics Information for investors Shareholder information online tolure investors into scams.
They may Information for investors is provided The Company will publish annual offer to sell shares that turn out to be onthe internet as part of the Groups reports, notices of shareholder worthless or non-existent, or to buy corporate website which can be meetings and other documents which shares at an inflated price in return for an foundat htlp: corporate.
we are required to send to shareholders upfront payment.
While high profits are shareholder information on a website.
promised, if you buy or sell shares inthis Registrars Consenting shareholders will be notified way you may potentially lose your money.
Capita Asset Services either by post or email if preferred 5,000 people contact the FCA about eachtime the Company publishes share fraud each year, with victims For shareholder enquiries contact: shareholder information.
This allows us losingan average of 20,000.
For more Saga Shareholder Services to increase speed of communication, information, or if you are approached by The Registry reduce our impact on the environment fraudsters, please visit the FCA website 34 Beckenham Road and keep costs to a minimum.
org, uk consumers scams, Beckenham where you can report and find out more Kent BR3 4TU You can change your communication about investment scams.
You can also preference via the Saga Shareholder call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 Shareholder Helpline: 0800 015 5429 Services Portal www.
If you have already paid money calls to Freephone numbers will vary by co. uk or by contacting Saga toshare fraudsters you should contact provider.
If you are outside the United Shareholder Services.
In order to Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Kingdom call 44 203 471 2272 calls register on the portal you require your outside the United Kingdom will be 11-digit investor code IVC.
You can Advisers charged at the applicable international findyour IVC on recent communications Corporate brokers and rate.
Lines are open are open 9am to such as your share certificate.
The Saga financialadvisers 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Shareholder Services Portal allows you Bank of America Merrill Lynch public holidays in England and Wales.
to manage your shareholding easily and 2 King Edward Street securely online.
You can also change London EC1A 1HO enquiries@sagashareholder.
co. uk your personal details, view your holding and get an indicative valuation, view Goldman Sachs Registered office dividend information, register proxy Peterborough Court Saga Plc voting instructions, reinvest your 133 Fleet Street Enbrook Park dividends to buy additional Saga London EC4A 2BB Sandgate plcshares, buy and sell shares and Folkestone register bank details so that dividends Media relations advisers Kent CT20 3SE can be paid directly to your account.
FTI Consulting 200 Aldersgate Corporate websites Aldersgate Street Information made available on the London EC1A 4HD Groups websites does not, and is not intended to, form part of these Results.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 183
