Directors report continued Under a note purchase agreement dated 26 January 2015 relating to Liquidity risk 55 million senior notes, Series H, due 26 January 2022, 30 million The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing cash senior notes, Series I, due 26 January 2023 and US$200 million senior resources required to meet business objectives through both short and notes, Series J, due 26 January 2025 between Sage Treasury Company long-term cash flow forecasts.
The Company has committed facilities Limited and the note holders and guaranteed by the Company, on a which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including change of control of the Company, the Company will not take any working capital.
The Treasury function has responsibility for optimising action that consummates or finalises a change of control unless at the level of cash across the business.
least 15 business days prior to such action it shall have given to each holder of notes written notice containing and constituting an offer Credit risk to prepay all notes on the date specified in such offer which shall The Groups credit risk primarily arises from trade and other receivables.
be a business day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the The Group has a very low operational credit risk due to the transactions change of control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The after the date of notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes Group has no significant concentration of operational credit risk, accepts the offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties principal amount of the notes together with accrued and unpaid and customers.
interest thereon and any applicable net loss and, in each case, including the deduction of any applicable net gain and shall still be The credit risk on liquid funds is considered to be low, as the Board-approved Group treasury policy limits the value that can be made on the proposed payment date.
No prepayment under a change of control shall include any premium of any kind.
invested with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
All counterparties must meet minimum credit rating requirements.
Under the terms of all four agreements above, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control Interest rate risk of the Company.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate deposits The platform reseller agreement dated 31 January 2015 relating to and borrowings.
The US private placement loan notes comprise 100% the Companys strategic arrangements with Salesforce.
com EMEA of borrowings and are at fixed interest rates, the bank revolving credit Limited contains a change of control right enabling Salesforce to facility, which was undrawn at the year end is subject to floating interest terminate the agreement in the event there is a change of control rates.
At 30 September 2016, the Group had 265m 2015: 263m of cash in favour of a direct competitor of Salesforce.
The agreement contains post termination requirements upon The Group regularly reviews forecast debt, cash and cash equivalents Salesforce to support a transition for up to a specified period.
and interest rates to monitor this risk.
Interest rates on debt and In respect of the platform reseller agreement with Salesforce.
com deposits are fixed when management decides this is appropriate.
EMEA Limited, change of control occurs where a corporate transaction results in the owners of the subject entity owning At 30 September 2016, the Groups principal borrowings comprised less than 50% of the voting interests in that entity as a result of US private placement loan notes of 575m 2015: 525m, which have the corporate transaction.
an average fixed interest rate of 3.40%, 2015: 3.48%.
Financial risk management Foreign currency risk The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, Although a substantial proportion of the Groups revenue and profit interest rate and foreign currency risk are summarised below.
is earned outside the UK, operating companies generally only trade in their own currency.
The Group is therefore not subject to any significant foreign exchange transactional exposure within these subsidiaries.
Capital risk The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt The Groups principal exposure to foreign currency lies in the translation plus equity are to safeguard our ability to continue as a going concern of overseas profits into sterling: this exposure is not hedged.
in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other The Groups external US Dollar and Euro denominated borrowings are stakeholders, while optimising returns to shareholders through an designated as a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages its US and Eurozone.
The foreign exchange movements on translation capital structure and makes adjustments to it with respect to changes of the borrowings into Sterling have therefore been recognised in the in economic conditions and our strategic objectives.
The Group has set translation reserve.
Certain of the Groups intercompany balances a long-term minimum leverage target of 1x net debt to EBITDA and will have been identified as part of the Groups net investment in foreign work to maintain this going forward.
Foreign exchange effects on these balances that remain on consolidation are also reflected in the translation reserve.
The Groups other currency exposures comprise those currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement, reflecting other monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity involved.
At 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015, these exposures were immaterial to the Group.
104 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Disclaimer Directors statement The purpose of this Annual Report & Accounts is to provide information The directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions to the members of the Company.
The Annual Report & Accounts has are listed in the Board of Directors on pages 66 to 67, confirm that: been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, To the best of their knowledge, the Groups financial statements, and no other persons.
The Company, its directors and employees, agents which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any and profit of the Group such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
To the best of their knowledge, the Directors report and the Strategic The Annual Report & Accounts contains certain forward-looking report include a fair review of the development and performance of statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial the business and the position of the Group, together with a condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results Each director as at the date of this report further confirms that: and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information at the date of preparation of this Annual Report & Accounts and the of which the Companys auditors are unaware Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking The director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report & Accounts should be as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant construed as a profit forecast.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information Statement of directors responsibilities This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Accounts, including the Directors remuneration report and the Group and parent Company financial statements, in accordance with In addition, the directors as at the date of this report consider that applicable law and regulations.
the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for to assess the Companys and the Groups position and performance, each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the business model and strategy.
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU By Order of the Board and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
Vicki Bradin In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: Company Secretary Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently 29 November 2016 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent State whether IFRS as adopted by the EU, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 105 Contents Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the to the members of The Sage Group plc 107 Group financial statements Consolidated income statement 113 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 114 Consolidated balance sheet 115 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 116 Consolidated statement of cash flows 117 Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements 118 Supplementary notes to the Group financial statements.
Earnings per share 131 Operating assets and liabilities 6.
Deferred income tax 145 Net debt and capital structure 13.
Group undertakings 161 106 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of the Sage Group plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys a airs as at 30 September 2016 and of the groups pro t for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The Sage Group plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2016 Company balance sheet as at 30 September 2016 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Company accounting policies Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 9 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of cash ows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 18 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Revenue recognition Carrying value of goodwill New in 2016 Changes in finance systems and processes, including classi cation of restructuring costs as non-recurring as a result of the Groups business transformation Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components and audit procedures on speci c balances for a further 6 components.
The components where we performed full or speci c audit procedures accounted for 99% of adjusted Pro t before tax and 90% of Revenue.
Materiality Overall Group materiality was 19.1m which represents 5% of adjusted Pro t before tax.
Note: Pro t before tax adjusted for non-recurring items as fide ned in the Our application of materiality section of this report Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identi ed the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest e ect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in the audit and the direction of the e orts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committ ee At each full and speci c scope audit location with signi cant revenue streams: Based on the procedures performed, Revenue recognition we did not identify any evidence Refer to the Audit and Risk Committ ee We performed walkthroughs of each signi cant class of revenue ofmaterial misstatement in the Report page 76 : and Notes 1 and 3.1 of transactions and assessed the design e ectiveness of key controls.
revenue recognised in the year the Group financial statements For4components we tested the operating e ectiveness of controls.
The Group has reported revenues of For products and services where the risks and rewards are transferred 1,569.1m 2015: 1,435.5m.
We overa period of time, we tested a sample of transactions to ensure that identi ed 3 speci c risks of fraud and theamount of revenue was accurately calculated based on the state of error in respect of improper revenue completion of the contract and recognised in the appropriate period.
recognition given the nature of the Our procedures in relation to inappropriate accounting for complex Groups products and services as follows: one-o arrangements, changes to existing products and new products orservicesensured that the policies adopted were appropriate and Inappropriate cut-o and deferral consistentlyapplied.
ofrevenue: The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 107 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committ ee For bundled products, we tested on a sample basis, that 1 the calculation Revenue recognition of the fair value att ributed to each element of the bundle was reasonable, continued and 2 that the allocation of any discount was consistent with the relative Inappropriate accounting for complex fair value of each element of the bundle.
one-o arrangements: changes to existing products and new products We performed other substantive, transactional testing and analytical or services: and procedures to validate the recognition of revenue throughout the year.
Where practicable, at component level we performed testing over full Inappropriate allocation of revenue populations of transactions using data analysis.
between the components of bundledproducts.
For revenue recorded through journal entries outside of normal business processes, we performed testing to establish whether a service had been There is no change in the risk pro le provided or a sale had occurred in the financial year to support the inthe current year.
revenuerecognised We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures for the accounting policies for revenue recognition in notes 1 and 3.1 respectively.
At each full and speci c scope audit location with signi cant revenue streams 9 components we performed audit procedures which covered 90% of the Groups revenue.
We also performed review procedures in 6 locations, which covered a further 8% of the Groups revenue.
We challenged managements assumptions used in its impairment models for Based on the results of our work, Carrying value of goodwill assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill.
We focused on weagree with managements Refer to the Audit and Risk Committ ee the appropriateness of CGU identi cation, methodology applied to estimate conclusion that no impairment of Report page 76 : and Notes 1 and recoverable values, discount rates, and forecast cash ows.
Speci cally goodwill is required in the current 6oftheGroup financial statements year.
We agree with management We have validated that the CGUs identi ed are the lowest level at which We focussed on this area due the size that no reasonably possibly change management monitors goodwill.
ofthe goodwill balance 1,658.5m in assumptions would result in a 2014:1,446m and because the We tested the methodology applied in the value in use calculation as material impairment in any Cash directors assessment of value in use compared to the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, and Generating Unit and hence no ofthe Groups Cash Generating Units themathematical accuracy of managements model.
additional sensitivity disclosures CGUs involves judgement about the We obtained an understanding of, and assessed the basis for, key arerequired in note 6.1 of the Group future performance of the business and underlying assumptions for the 2017 budget.
the discount rates applied to future We have validated that the cash ow forecasts used in the valuation are cash ow forecasts.
consistent with information approved by the Board and have reviewed the The risk has decreased in the year as historical accuracy of managements forecasts.
thegoodwill most sensitive to a material We challenged management on its cash ow forecasts and the implied impairment was fully impaired in the growth rates for 2017 and beyond by considering evidence available to prior year.
support these assumptions and their consistency with findings from other areas of our audit.
The discount rates and long term growth rates applied within the model were assessed by an EY business valuation specialist, including comparison to economic and industry forecasts where appropriate For all CGUs, we performed sensitivity analyses by stress testing key assumptions in the model with downside scenarios to understand the parameters that, should they arise, could lead to a di erent conclusion in respect of the carrying value of goodwill.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in note 6.1 in the Group financial statements.
The entire goodwill was subject to full scope audit procedures by the Primary audit team.
108 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committ ee We performed the following procedures in respect of the X3 implementation Based on the procedures performed, New in 2016 Changes for certain processes in both the UK and South Africa: for the relevant processes we in finance systems and weresatis ed that data had been processes, including Walkthroughs of new processes, and identi cation of key IT dependent appropriately migrated from legacy classi cation of restructuring manual and IT application controls: systems to X3 and the access to costs as non-recurring as a Obtained an understanding of data cleansing prior to migration, and thesystem was properly set up.
result of the Groups business testeddata migration with associated reconciliations: transformation Whilst the processes subject to Discussed and assessed IT access and segregation of duties for all Refer to the Audit and Risk Committ ee change in both locations did not users:and Report page 76 : and Note 3.6 of the generally impact our procedures in Inspected evidence in respect of project governance, and in particular in Group financial statements respect of the signi cant audit risk relation to key gateway decisions.
of revenue recognition, we noted We focussed on this area as the Group anumber of control observations Whilst our audit strategy did not seek to rely on controls over the processes commenced its finance transformation which are currently being addressed impacted by the changes in finance operations and X3 implementation, in in the current year which included as part of managements performing our substantive audit procedures, we evaluated the robustness forthe UK and South Africa the stabilisation plan prior to further ofthe financial statement close process in both Financial Shared Services implementation of its X3 ERP migration of finance operations in Centres at the year end.
systemforcertain processes and tothe European Financial Shared theestablishment of Financial With respect to the non-recurring transformation costs: Services Centre in 2017.
We assessed whether the constituent costs are recorded in line with the Based on the procedures performed, During a period of finance operational Groups policy as summarised in Note 3.6 and that the policy has been we did not identify any evidence of and systems changes there is an applied consistently with prior years.
material misstatement of business increased risk to the internal financial We tested a sample of costs classi ed as non-recurring to verify that they transformations costs and that the control environment.
are directly att ributable to the business transformation and are recorded classi cation of these costs as In addition costs of 109.9m have been atthe correct amount and in the appropriate period.
non-recurring was in accordance classi ed as non-recurring on the basis with the Groups disclosed We considered the level of transparency of the disclosures provided in that they relate to the Groups business accounting policy.
note6.3 in the Group financial statements with reference to the Financial transformation and consequently are Reporting Councils 2013 guidance to directors on the use of On the basis that further costs excluded from the Groups underling exceptionalitems.
areanticipated to be incurred and results.
As such, the audit team reported as non-recurring in 2017, Component teams at 6 locations performed audit procedures on people focussed its procedures on the werecommended that appropriate related reorganisation costs and on certain net property exit costs.
The followingrisks: disclosure outlining the rationale for Primary audit team performed audit procedures on the remaining business Inappropriate classi cation of costs the expense timeline is included in transformations costs.
as non-recurring: the Group financial statements.
Inconsistent treatment of nonrecurring items from year to year: and Inappropriate quanti cation of non-recurring items and recognition of amounts in an incorrect accounting period.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in respect of Accounting for taxation.
Following our first year audit in 2015, the audit team re-assessed this audit risk and no longer considers it a risk of material misstatement that had the greatest e ect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of e orts in the audit team.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each component within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk pro le, the organisation of the group and e ectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of signi cant accounts in the financial statements, of the 46 reporting components of the Group, we selected 12 components covering entities within UK and Ireland, France, Germany, Spain, North America, South Africa, and Brazil which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 12 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 6 components speci c scope components, we performed audit procedures on speci c accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the signi cant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk pro le.
For the remaining 34 components, audit procedures were undertaken as set out in Note 4 below to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 109 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued 2016 2015 Reporting components % Group Number % Group % Group adjusted Pro t % Group adjusted Pro t Revenue Number before tax Revenue See note before tax Full scope 6 68% 58% 1,2 6 63% 58% Speci c scope 6 31% 32% 2,3 6 27% 32% Full and speci c scope coverage 12 99% 90% 12 90% 90% Remaining components 34 1% 10% 4 33 10% 10% Total Reporting components 46 100% 100% 45 100% 100% Notes: 1.
3 of the 6 full scope components relate to the parent company and other corporate entities whose activities include the Groups treasury management and consolidation adjustments.
The Group audit risk in relation to the carrying value of goodwill was subject to audit procedures by the Primary audit team on the entire balance.
The Group audit risk in relation to revenue recognition was subject to full audit procedures at each of the full and speci c scope locations with signi cant revenue streams.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all signi cant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of signi cant accounts selected for testing by the Primary audit team.
The remaining 34 components contributed a net 1% of adjusted Pro t before tax and none are individually greater than 3% of the Groups adjusted Pro t before tax.
We instructed acomponent team to undertake speci ed procedures over certain cash balances at one location.
For 6 components, including 2 in Asia and Australia, we performed review scope procedures.
For the remaining components, the Primary audit team performed other procedures, including analytical review procedures and testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components byus, as the Primary audit team, or by component auditors from other EY global network rms operating under our instruction.
Of the 6 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 3 of these directly by the Primary audit team and 3 by component audit teams.
For the 6 speci c scope components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement with the component teams to enable us to determine that su cient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
At the start of the audit, a Global Team Planning Event was held in the UK with representatives from all full and speci c scope component audit team in att endance.
In addition, the Primary audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor, or her designate, would visit all full and selected speci c scope audit locations.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken at least once by the primary audit team to the component teams in the UK, France, Spain, North America, and South Africa.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management, andreviewing key audit working papers on the Group risk areas.
The Primary audit team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, att ended all closing meeting calls, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the e ect of identi ed misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually orinthe aggregate, could reasonably be expected to in uence theeconomic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Starting Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent Pro t before tax 274.5m basis ofour audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 19.1 million 2015: 16.9million, which is 5% 2015: 5% of Pro t before tax adjusted for non-recurring items reported by the Group.
We believe that adjusted Adjusted for non recurring items Pro t before tax provides us with a consistent year on year basis Adjustments Business transformation costs of 109.9m fordetermining materiality and is the most relevant performance Recovery of litigation costs of 2.2m measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Non-recurring items are setout in Note 3.6 of the Groups financial statements.
Given the scale of, and multi-year timeline for, the Groups business transformation, further non-recurring transformation costs will be incurred in 2017.
Totals 382.2m materiality basis During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and Materiality Materiality of 19.1m 5% of materiality basis the only change in the final materiality from our original assessment at planning was to re ect the actual reported performance of the Group in the year.
110 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2015: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 9.5m 2015: 8.5m.
Our performance materiality percentage has remained at 50% to re ect the risk associated with the Group wide business transformation, and speci cally changes across the finance organisation that commenced during the current year, which included for the UK and South Africa the implementation of their respective X3 ERP system for certain processes and the establishment of Financial Shared Services Centres.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over signi cant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to full and speci c scope components was 0.9m to 5.2m 2015: 0.9m to 4.3m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identi ed misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committ ee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit di erences in excess of 1.0m 2015: 0.9m, which is set at5% of planning materiality, as well as di erences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements su cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 105, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matt ers we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitt ed by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matt ers prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 111 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued Matt ers on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report is: We have no Ireland exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or reporting to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in thecourse of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matt ers that we communicated to the audit committ ee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no 2006 reporting exceptions adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not to report.
been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not inagreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no review exceptions the directors statement in relation to going concern and longer-term viability, both set out on page 101: and requirements to report.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code speci ed for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw att ention to in relationto: We have nothing Ireland material to add the directors con rmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks reporting orto draw facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: att entionto.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identi cation of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing att ention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 29 November 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the The Sage Group plcs web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matt ers and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may di er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Note: Underlying as reported is at 2015 reported exchange rates.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 113 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 30 September 2016 2016 2015 Note m m Profit for the year 207.6 194.3 Other comprehensive income expense : Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Actuarial loss on post-employment benefit obligations 11, 15.4 2.2 4.8 Deferred tax credit on actuarial loss on post-employment benefit obligations 4, 15.4 0.8 0.6 1.4 4.2 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss: Deferred tax credit on foreign currency movements 4, 15.3 2.6 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 15.3 117.1 23.2 119.7 23.2 Other comprehensive income expense for the year, net of tax 118.3 27.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 325.9 166.9 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent 325.9 166.9 114 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Consolidated balance sheet As at 30 September 2016 2016 2015 Note m m Non-current assets Goodwill 6.1 1,658.5 1,446.0 Other intangible assets 6.2 109.3 105.5 Property, plant and equipment 7 123.4 122.7 Investment in an associate 8 9.0 Other financial assets 2.7 Deferred income tax assets 12 58.4 34.2 1,961.3 1,708.4 Current assets Inventories 9.1 2.1 2.0 Trade and other receivables 9.2 419.5 320.9 Current income tax asset 7.9 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 13.3 264.5 263.4 Assets classified as held for sale 16.3 1.0 695.0 586.3 Total assets 2,656.3 2,294.7 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 9.3 350.5 311.2 Current income tax liabilities 20.7 31.4 Borrowings 13.4 43.3 33.6 Provisions 10 37.6 9.9 Deferred income 3.1 535.8 436.5 Liabilities classified as held for sale 16.3 0.4 988.3 822.6 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 13.4 534.4 571.4 Post-employment benefits 11 25.3 18.7 Deferred income tax liabilities 12 13.2 7.3 Provisions 10 29.4 10.4 Trade and other payables 7.5 Deferred income 3.1 4.9 2.2 614.7 610.0 Total liabilities 1,603.0 1,432.6 Net assets 1,053.3 862.1 Equity attributable to owners of the parent Ordinary shares 15.1 11.8 11.8 Share premium 544.4 541.2 Other reserves 15.3 186.6 66.9 Retained earnings 310.5 242.2 Total equity 1,053.3 862.1 The consolidated financial statements on pages 113 to 162 were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 November 2016 and are signed on their behalf by: S Hare Chief Financial Officer The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 115 Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 30 September 2016 Attributable to owners of the parent Ordinary Share Other Retained Total shares premium reserves earnings equity Note m m m m m At 1 October 2015 11.8 541.2 66.9 242.2 862.1 Profit for the year 207.6 207.6 Other comprehensive income expense : Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 15.3 117.1 117.1 Deferred tax credit on foreign currency movements 4, 15.3 2.6 2.6 Actuarial loss on post-employment benefit obligations 11, 15.4 2.2 2.2 Deferred tax credit on actuarial loss on post-employment 0.8 0.8 obligations 4.
15.4 Total comprehensive income for the year ended 30 September 2016 119.7 206.2 325.9 Transactions with owners: Employee share option scheme: Proceeds from shares issued 3.2 3.2 Value of employee services, net of deferred tax 15.4 9.3 9.3 Purchase of treasury shares 15.4 2.4 2.4 Dividends paid to owners of the parent 15.5 144.8 144.8 Total transactions with owners for the year ended 30 September 2016 3.2 137.9 134.7 At 30 September 2016 11.8 544.4 186.6 310.5 1,053.3 Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 30 September 2015 Attributable to owners of the parent Total Ordinary Share Other Retained shares premium reserves earnings equity Note m m m m m At 1 October 2014 11.7 535.9 90.1 130.2 767.9 Profit for the year 194.3 194.3 Other comprehensive income expense : Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 15.3 23.2 23.2 Actuarial loss on post-employment benefit obligations 11, 15.4 4.8 4.8 Deferred tax credit on actuarial loss on post-employment obligations 4, 15.4 0.6 0.6 Total comprehensive expense income for the year ended 30 September 2015 23.2 190.1 166.9 Transactions with owners: Employee share option scheme: Proceeds from shares issued 0.1 5.3 5.4 Value of employee services, net of deferred tax 15.4 10.1 10.1 Purchase of treasury shares 15.4 14.6 14.6 Expenses related to purchase of treasury shares 15.4 0.1 0.1 Close period share buyback programme 15.4 60.0 60.0 Dividends paid to owners of the parent 15.5 133.5 133.5 Total transactions with owners for the year ended 30 September 2015 0.1 5.3 78.1 72.7 At 30 September 2015 11.8 541.2 66.9 242.2 862.1 116 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Consolidated statement of cash flows For the year ended 30 September 2016 2015 2016 Note m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from continuing operations 13.1 397.9 418.6 Interest paid 21.1 19.2 Income tax paid 92.1 84.6 Net cash generated from operating activities 284.7 314.8 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 16.1 6.4 47.3 Purchases of intangible assets 6.2 7.7 6.0 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 7 23.5 16.4 Purchase of investment in an associate 10.0 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 2.1 Interest received 3.5 2.4 2.2 Net cash generated used in investing activities 45.1 65.4 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 3.2 5.4 Purchase of treasury shares 2.4 17.7 Finance lease principal payments 0.6 1.4 Proceeds from borrowings 69.2 481.2 Repayments of borrowings 188.8 474.5 Movements in cash held on behalf of customers 13.0 12.5 Borrowing costs 1.5 1.3 Dividends paid to owners of the parent 15.5 144.8 133.5 Net cash used in financing activities 278.7 129.3 Net decrease increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts before exchange rate movement 39.1 120.1 Effects of exchange rate movement 13.2 35.9 0.4 Net decrease increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 3.2 119.7 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 1 October 13.2 263.4 143.7 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 30 September 13.2 260.2 263.4 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 117 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements 1 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements Accounting policies applicable across the financial statements are shown below.
Accounting policies that are specific to a component of the financial statements have been incorporated into the relevant note.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of The Sage Group plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except where adopted IFRS require an alternative treatment.
The principal variations from the historical cost convention relate to derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries prepared at the end of the reporting period.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied across the Group.
The Company controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity, which is usually from date of acquisition.
New or amended accounting standards There are no IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 63.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, for a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent Company and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlements of monetary items and on the retranslation of monetary items are included in profit or loss for the period, except for foreign currency movements on intercompany balances where settlement is not planned or likely in the foreseeable future, in which case they are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Foreign exchange movements on external borrowings which are designated as a hedge of the net investment in its related subsidiaries are recognised in the translation reserve.
The assets and liabilities of the Groups subsidiaries outside of the UK are translated into sterling using period end exchange rates.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Where differences arise between these rates, they are recognised in other comprehensive income and the translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in other comprehensive income are recycled in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale, with the exception of exchange differences recorded in equity prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 October 2004, in accordance with IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
118 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions by management.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available information.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are described below.
The judgements and managements rationale in relation to these accounting estimates and judgements are assessed and where material in value or in risk, are discussed with the Audit and Risk Committee.
Revenue recognition Approximately 30% of the companys revenue is generated from sales to partners rather than to end users.
The key judgement in accounting for the three principal ways in which our business partners are remunerated is determining whether the business partner is a customer of the Group in respect of the initial product sale.
The key criteria in this determination is whether the business partner has paid for and taken on the risks and rewards of ownership of the software product from Sage.
At this point the business partner is able to sell on the licence to the end user at a price of its determination and consequently bears the credit risk of the onward sale.
Where the business partner is a customer of Sage, there are two ways in which they can be remunerated.
Firstly, there are discounts granted as a discount from the list price.
These discounts are negotiated between the company and the business partner prior to the sale and invoices are raised, and revenue booked is based on the discounted price.
Secondly, there are further discounts given to business partners for subsequent renewals or increased sales to the end user.
These discounts are recognised as a deduction from the incremental revenue earned.
Where the business partner is not a customer of Sage and their part in the sale has simply been in the form of a referral, they are remunerated in the form of a commission payment.
These payments are treated as a cost within selling and administrative costs.
An additional area of judgement is the recognition and deferral of revenue on bundled products, for example the sale of a perpetual licence with an annual maintenance and support contract.
When products are bundled together for the purpose of sale, the associated revenue, net of all applicable discounts, is allocated between the constituent parts of the bundle on a relative fair value basis.
The Group has a systematic basis for allocating relative fair values in these situations, based upon published list prices.
Goodwill impairment There are two key judgement areas in relation to goodwill impairment.
The first is the ongoing appropriateness of the cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
In the current year CGUs were assessed in the context of the Groups evolving business model, the Sage strategy and the shift to global product development.
As management continues to monitor goodwill at a country level and product cash flows are still predominantly generated by the existing product base within each country, it was determined that the existing CGUs remain appropriate.
The other key judgement area relates to the assumptions applied in calculating the value in use of the CGUs being tested for impairment.
The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the future performance expectations of the business average medium-term revenue growth and long term growth rate as well as the discount rate to be applied in the calculation.
These key assumptions used in performing the impairment assessment are disclosed in note 6.1.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 119 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 1 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Tax provisions The Group recognises certain provisions and accruals in respect of tax which involve a degree of estimation and uncertainty where the tax treatment cannot finally be determined until a resolution has been reached by the relevant tax authority.
This approach resulted in providing 18.7m as at 30 September 2016 2015: 32.8m.
The carrying amount is sensitive to the resolution of issues which is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can take many years to resolve and assumptions on the likely outcome have therefore been made by management.
The nature of the assumptions made by management when calculating the carrying amounts relates to the estimated tax which could be payable as a result of decisions with tax authorities in respect of transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
In making the estimates, managements judgement was based on various factors, including: the status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries: the results of previous claims: and any changes to the relevant tax environments.
When making this assessment, we utilise our specialist in-house tax knowledge and experience of similar situations elsewhere to confirm these provisions.
These judgements also take into consideration specialist tax advice provided by third party advisors on specific items.
Future accounting standards The directors also considered the impact on the Group of new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments.
The following revised and new accounting standards may have a material impact on the Group.
They are currently issued but not effective for the Group for the year ended 30 September 2016: IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: and IFRS 16, Leases.
IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group plans to adopt these standards in line with their effective dates, which for IFRSs 9 and 16 will be confirmed once the standards are endorsed by the EU.
Currently, based on the expected timing of that endorsement, IFRSs 9 and 15 will be adopted for the financial year commencing 1 October 2018, and IFRS 16 for the financial year commencing 1 October 2019.
The Group is in the process of assessing the impact that the application of these standards will have on the Groups financial statements, but it is currently too early to determine how significant any effect on actual financial results and financial position might be.
In the case of IFRS 15, the Group is in the initial stage of planning its evaluation of the impact of the standard.
IFRS 15 will replace IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IAS 18 Revenue and related interpretations.
It contains a new set of principles on when and how to recognise and measure revenue as well as new requirements related to presentation and disclosures.
Under IFRS 15, revenue earned from contracts with customers will be recognised based on a five-step model which requires, for each contract, the transaction price to be apportioned to the separate performance obligations arising under the contract on a relative standalone selling price basis, and recognised as revenue at the point at which control of goods or services is transferred to the customer.
The transaction price will be the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer.
The incremental costs of obtaining a contract and contract fulfilment costs will be recognised as an expense consistent with the transfer of the related goods or services to the customer.
Depending on the particular contractual arrangements in place, application of the new standard may change the amount of revenue recognised on a contract and or its timing, and the timing of the recognition of contract costs compared with current accounting policies.
120 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Results for the year 2 Segment information This note shows how Group revenue and Group operating profit are generated across the three reportable segments in which we operate, being Europe, North America and International South America, Africa, Australia, Middle East and Asia.
For each geographical region, revenue and operating profit are compared to prior year in order to understand the movements in the year.
This comparison is provided for statutory, underlying and organic revenue and operating profit.
Statutory results reflect the Groups results prepared in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
Underlying and underlying as reported are non-GAAP measures.
Adjustments are made to statutory results to arrive at an underlying result which is in line with how the business is managed and measured on a day to day basis.
Adjustments are made for items that are individually important in order to understand the financial performance.
If included, these items could distort understanding of the performance for the year and the comparability between periods.
Management apply judgement in determining which items should be excluded from underlying performance.
See note 3.6 for details of these adjustments.
In addition, the prior year underlying values are translated at current year exchange rates, so that exchange rate impacts do not distort comparisons.
Prior year underlying values at prior year exchange rates are underlying as reported: prior year and current year values at current year exchange rates are underlying.
The contributions of current and prior year acquisitions, disposals and assets held for sale of standalone businesses are removed so that results can be compared to the prior year on a like for like basis.
Acquisitions and disposals which occurred close to the start of the opening comparative period where the contribution impact would be immaterial are not adjusted.
In addition, the following reconciliations are made in this note.
Revenue per segment reconciled to the profit for the year as per the income statement.
Statutory operating profit reconciled to underlying operating profit per segment detailing the adjustments made.
Accounting policy In accordance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, information for the Groups operating segments has been derived using the information used by the chief operating decision maker.
The Groups Executive Committee has been identified as the chief operating decision maker in accordance with their designated responsibility for the allocation of resources to operating segments and assessing their performance, through the Quarterly Business Reviews chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The Executive Committee use organic and underlying data to monitor business performance.
Operating segments are reported in a manner which is consistent with the operating segments produced for internal management reporting.
The Group is organised into four key operating segments, with Brazil being aggregated with AAMEA with which there are similar economic characteristics to form the International reporting segment.
The UK is the home country of the parent.
The reporting segments and their main operating territories are as follows: Europe France, UK & Ireland, Spain, Germany, Switzerland, Poland, Portugal and Sagepay North America US and Canada International Brazil, Africa, Australia, Middle East and Asia The Africa operations are principally based in South Africa: the Middle East and Asia operations are principally based in Singapore, Malaysia and UAE.
Segment reporting The tables overleaf show a segmental analysis of the results for continuing operations.
The revenue analysis in the table overleaf is based on the location of the customer which is not materially different from the location where the order is received and where the assets are located.
Revenue categories are defined in Note 3.1.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 121 Results for the year continued 2 Segment information continued 2.1 Revenue by segment Year ended 30 September 2016 Change Statutory and Organic underlying adjustments Organic m m m Statutory Underlying Organic Recurring revenue by segment Europe 641.7 641.7 13.5% 10.2% 10.2% North America 307.9 307.9 16.3% 8.5% 8.5% International 143.3 1.1 142.2 7.7% 15.8% 16.0% Recurring revenue 1,092.9 1.1 1,091.8 13.5% 10.4% 10.4% Software and software related services SSRS revenue by segment Europe 149.1 149.1 4.0% 7.4% 7.4% North America 70.5 70.5 0.8% 7.6% 7.6% International 52.6 0.8 51.8 18.2% 13.5% 12.4% SSRS revenue 272.2 0.8 271.4 6.4% 8.7% 8.5% Processing revenue by segment Europe 36.2 36.2 11.7% 11.5% 11.5% North America 157.1 157.1 11.3% 2.9% 2.9% International 10.7 10.7 32.1% 49.8% 49.8% Processing revenue 204.0 204.0 12.3% 6.1% 6.1% Total revenue by segment Europe 827.0 827.0 9.8% 6.6% 6.6% North America 535.5 535.5 12.3% 4.4% 4.4% International 206.6 1.9 204.7 0.6% 7.8% 8.4% Total revenue 1,569.1 1.9 1,567.2 9.3% 6.0% 6.1% Year ended 30 September 2015 Statutory and Impact of underlying as foreign Organic reported exchange Underlying adjustments Organic m m m m m Recurring revenue by segment Europe 565.3 17.1 582.4 582.4 North America 264.7 19.0 283.7 283.7 International 133.1 9.3 123.8 1.2 122.6 Recurring revenue 963.1 26.8 989.9 1.2 988.7 Software and software related services SSRS revenue by segment Europe 155.3 5.7 161.0 161.0 North America 71.1 5.2 76.3 76.3 International 64.3 3.5 60.8 1.7 59.1 SSRS revenue 290.7 7.4 298.1 1.7 296.4 Processing revenue by segment Europe 32.4 0.2 32.6 32.6 North America 141.2 11.5 152.7 152.7 International 8.1 1.0 7.1 7.1 Processing revenue 181.7 10.7 192.4 192.4 Total revenue by segment Europe 753.0 23.0 776.0 776.0 North America 477.0 35.7 512.7 512.7 International 205.5 13.8 191.7 2.9 188.8 Total revenue 1,435.5 44.9 1,480.4 2.9 1,477.5 122 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2.2 Operating profit by segment Year ended 30 September 2016 Change Underlying Organic Statutory adjustments Underlying adjustments Organic m m m m m Statutory Underlying Organic Europe 167.6 88.1 255.7 255.7 22.6% 12.7% 12.7% North America 106.0 28.3 134.3 134.3 11.7% 15.9% 15.9% International 26.8 10.2 37.0 0.1 36.9 25.5% 23.4% Total operating profit 300.4 126.6 427.0 0.1 426.9 1.1% 8.8% 9.2% Year ended 30 September 2015 Underlying Underlying as Impact of Organic Statutory adjustments reported foreign Underlying adjustments Organic m m m exchange m m m m Operating profit by segment Europe 216.6 6.4 223.0 3.9 226.9 226.9 North America 94.9 7.5 102.4 13.5 115.9 115.9 International 14.3 68.8 54.5 5.0 49.5 1.3 48.2 Total operating profit 297.2 82.7 379.9 12.4 392.3 1.3 391.0 The results by segment from continuing operations were as follows: North Europe America International Group Year ended 30 September 2016 Note m m m m Revenue 827.0 535.5 206.6 1,569.1 Segment statutory operating profit 167.6 106.0 26.8 300.4 Share of loss of an associate 1.0 Finance income 3.5 5.1 Finance costs 3.5 30.0 Profit before income tax 274.5 Income tax expense 4 66.9 Profit for the year 207.6 Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to statutory operating profit North Europe America International Group m m m m Underlying operating profit 255.7 134.3 37.0 427.0 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets note 3.6 6.4 8.0 3.8 18.2 Other acquisition-related items note 3.6 0.1 0.6 0.7 Non-recurring items note 3.6 81.6 19.7 6.4 107.7 Statutory operating profit 167.6 106.0 26.8 300.4 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 123 Results for the year continued 2 Segment information continued 2.2 Operating profit by segment continued The results by segment from continuing operations were as follows: North Europe America International Group Year ended 30 September 2015 Note m m m m Revenue 753.0 477.0 205.5 1,435.5 Segment statutory operating profit 216.6 94.9 14.3 297.2 Finance income 3.5 2.2 Finance costs 3.5 23.6 Profit before income tax 275.8 Income tax expense 4 81.5 Profit for the year 194.3 North Europe America International Group Year ended 30 September 2015 m m m m Underlying operating profit as reported 223.0 102.4 54.5 379.9 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 6.4 7.5 4.3 18.2 Fair value adjustments and goodwill impairment 64.5 64.5 Statutory operating profit 216.6 94.9 14.3 297.2 2.3 Analysis by geographic location Management deems countries which generate more than 10% of total group revenue to be material.
Additional disclosures have been provided below to show the proportion of revenue from these countries.
2016 2015 Revenue by individually significant countries m m UK 319.5 298.6 France 246.6 221.2 USA 473.6 374.6 Other individually immaterial countries 529.4 541.1 1,569.1 1,435.5 Management deems countries which contribute more than 10% to total group non-current assets to be material.
Additional disclosures have been provided below to show the proportion of non-current assets from these countries.
Non-current assets presented below excludes deferred tax assets, post-employment benefit assets and financial instruments.
2016 2015 Non-current assets by geographical location m m UK 272.5 295.8 France 239.1 217.0 USA 1,010.9 871.6 Other individually immaterial countries 377.7 289.8 1,900.2 1,674.2 124 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3 Profit before income tax This note sets out the Groups profit before tax, by looking in more detail at the key operating costs, including a breakdown of the costs incurred as an employer, research and development costs, the cost of the external audit of the Groups financial statements and finance costs.
This note also sets out the Groups revenue recognition policy.
In addition, this note analyses the future amounts payable under operating lease agreements, which the Group has entered into as at the year-end.
These commitments are not included as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
This note also provides a breakdown of any material recurring and non-recurring costs that have been reported separately on the face of the income statement.
3.1 Revenue Accounting policy Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
The Group reports revenue under three revenue categories and the basis of recognition for each category is described below: Category & Examples Accounting Treatment Recurring revenue is revenue earned from customers for the provision of a good or service, where Recurring revenue risks and rewards are transferred to the customer over the term of a contract, with the customer Subscription contracts being unable to continue to benefit from the full functionality of the good or service without Maintenance and support contracts ongoing payments.
Subscription revenue is revenue earned from customers for the provision of a good or service, where the risk and rewards are transferred to the customer over the term of a contract.
In the event that the customer stops paying, they lose the legal right to use the software and the Company has the ability to restrict the use of the product or service.
Subscription revenue and maintenance and support revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract including non-specified upgrades, when included.
Revenue relating to future periods is classified as deferred income on the balance sheet to reflect the transfer of risk and reward.
Perpetual software licences and specified upgrades revenue is recognised when the significant risks Software and software-related services and rewards of ownership relating to the licence have been transferred and it is probable that the Perpetual software licences economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
This is when the goods Upgrades to perpetual licences have left the warehouse to be shipped to the customer or when electronic delivery has taken place.
Professional services Other product revenue which includes hardware and stationary is recognised as the products are Training shipped to the customer.
Hardware and stationary Other services revenue which includes the sale of professional services and training is recognised when delivered, or by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period.
This assessment is made by comparing the proportion of contract costs incurred to date to the total expected costs to completion.
Processing revenue is revenue earned from customers for the processing of payments or where Processing revenue Sage colleagues process our customers payroll.
Payment processing services Processing revenue is recognised at the point that the service is rendered on a per transaction basis.
Payroll processing services When products are bundled together before being sold to the customer, it is necessary to apply the recognition criteria to the separately identifiable components of a single transaction in order to reflect the substance of the transaction.
The associated revenue is allocated between the constituent parts of the bundle on a relative fair value basis.
When customers are offered discounts on bundled products and or services, the combined discount is allocated to the constituent elements of the bundle, based upon publically available list prices.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 125 Results for the year continued 3 Profit before income tax continued 3.2 Operating profit Accounting policy Cost of sales includes items such as third party royalties, transaction and credit card fees related to the provision of payment processing services and the cost of hardware and inventories.
These also include the third party costs of providing training and professional services to customers.
All other operating expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business are recorded in selling and administrative expenses.
2016 2015 The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit Note m m Staff costs 3.3 671.5 639.2 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 9.1 9.4 8.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7 22.2 18.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 6.2 29.6 29.1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 7 6.6 Fair value adjustments and goodwill impairment 3.6 64.5 Other operating lease rentals payable 27.9 27.9 Net foreign exchange gain losses 0.1 0.3 Acquisition-related items 0.7 2.0 The Group incurred 144.0m 2015: 141.2m of research and development expenditure in the year, of which 128.8m 2015: 123.5m is included above in staff costs.
See note 6.2 for the research and development accounting policy.
The Group also incurred 109.9m 2015: nil of transformation costs.
See note 3.6 for a detailed explanation of these costs.
Services provided by the Groups auditors and network firms During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditors at costs as detailed below: 2016 2015 m m Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Plcs companies and the consolidated accounts 1.2 0.9 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 2.1 1.8 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total audit and audit related services 3.4 2.8 Tax compliance services Tax advisory services Other non-audit services Total fees 3.4 2.8 A summary of the Boards policy in respect of the procurement of non-audit services for the Groups auditor is set out on page 80.
126 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3.3 Employees and directors 2016 2015 Average monthly number of people employed including directors number number By segment: Europe 7,361 7,277 North America 2,569 2,508 International 3,811 3,486 13,741 13,271 2016 2015 Staff costs including directors on service contracts Note m m Wages and salaries 572.2 546.2 Social security costs 79.8 72.1 Post-employment benefits 11 11.6 11.8 Share-based payments 15.2 7.9 9.1 671.5 639.2 2016 2015 Key management compensation m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 7.3 10.0 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4 Share-based payments 2.7 2.4 10.5 12.8 Key management personnel are deemed to be members of the Executive Committee as shown on page 68.
The key management figures given above include the executive directors of the Group.
3.4 Operating lease commitments Accounting policy Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
2016 2015 Property, Property, vehicles, plant vehicles, plant and equipment and equipment Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases falling due for payment as follows: m m Within one year 33.6 29.4 Later than one year and less than five years 94.6 73.7 After five years 37.2 15.7 165.4 118.8 The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 127 Results for the year continued 3 Profit before income tax continued 3.5 Finance income and costs Accounting policy Finance income and costs are recognised using the effective interest method.
Finance costs are recognised in the income statement simultaneously with the recognition of an increase in a liability or the reduction in an asset.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances are recognised in the profit and loss account unless settlement is not planned or likely in the foreseeable future, in which case they are recognised in other comprehensive income.
2016 2015 m m Finance income: Interest income on short-term deposits 2.4 2.2 Fair value adjustments to debt related financial instruments 2.7 Finance income 5.1 2.2 Finance costs: Finance costs on bank borrowings 3.9 3.6 Finance costs on US senior loan notes 19.2 18.7 Amortisation of issue costs 1.0 1.3 Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances 5.9 Finance costs 30.0 23.6 Finance costs net 24.9 21.4 3.6 Adjustments between underlying and statutory results Accounting policy The business is managed and measured on a day to day basis using underlying results.
To arrive at underlying results, certain adjustments are made for items that are individually important and which could, if included, distort the understanding of the performance for the year and the comparability between periods.
Recurring items These are items which occur regularly but which management judge to have a distorting effect on the underlying results of the Group.
These items relate mainly to fair value adjustments on financial instruments and merger & acquisition M&A activity, although other types of recurring items may arise.
M&A activity by its nature is irregular in its impact and includes amortisation and acquisition related costs, but not operating or integration costs relating to an acquired business.
Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances that are charged through the income statement are excluded from underlying so that exchange rate impacts do not distort comparisons.
Recurring items are adjusted each year irrespective of materiality to ensure consistent treatment.
Non-recurring items These are items which are non-recurring and are identified by virtue of either their size or their nature.
These items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, and restructuring related costs.
As these items are one-off or non-operational in nature, management considers that they would distort the Groups underlying business performance.
128 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Recurring Non-recurring Total Recurring Non-recurring Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 m m m m m m Amortisation of acquired intangibles 18.2 18.2 18.2 18.2 Fair value adjustments 2.2 2.2 Other acquisition-related items 0.7 0.7 Litigation related items 2.2 2.2 Transformation costs 109.9 109.9 Goodwill impairment 62.3 62.3 Total adjustments made to operating profit 18.9 107.7 126.6 20.4 62.3 82.7 Fair value adjustments 2.7 2.7 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 0.6 0.6 Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances 5.9 5.9 Total adjustments made to profit before income tax 22.7 107.7 130.4 20.4 62.3 82.7 Recurring items Acquired intangibles are assets which have previously been recognised as part of business combinations.
These assets are predominantly brands, customer relationships and technology rights.
Further details including specific accounting policies in relation to these assets can be found in note 6.2.
Other acquisition-related items relate to completed transaction costs and include advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or consulting services.
The fair value adjustment relates to an embedded derivative asset which relates to contractual terms agreed as part of the US private placement debt.
Amortisation of acquired intangibles below operating profit relates to the Groups share of the amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of an investment in an associate accounted for under the equity method.
Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances of 5.9m occurs due to retranslation of intercompany balances other than those where settlement is not planned or likely in the foreseeable future.
The balance arises in the current year due to fluctuation in exchange rates, predominately the movement in Euro and US Dollar compared to sterling.
The prior year fair value adjustment of 2.2m relates to an accounting loss on fair valuation of the call option in relation to the possible acquisition of Mastermaq.
Non-recurring items Net charges in respect of non-recurring items amounted to 107.7m 2015: 62.3m.
Charges of 109.9m have been incurred in the current year as a result of the implementation of the business transformation strategy.
This is comprised of people reorganisation charges of 51.5m, net property exit costs of 39.7m and other directly attributable costs, mainly relating to consultancy, contractor and asset write downs, of 18.7m.
The people reorganisation charges comprise severance costs of 43.8m with the remaining cost largely arising from retention payments, transition and overlap costs whilst implementing the new operating model.
The property exit costs consist of net lease exit costs following consolidation of office space used and impairment and accelerated depreciation of leasehold improvement assets and other related assets that are no longer in use due to the property exits.
The other costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the implementation of the new operating model under the business transformation strategy, including advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or consulting services.
These charges are one-off in nature and directly linked to the business transformation that is under way.
Given the scale of the change, further non-recurring costs will be incurred in the next financial year.
Total cash paid in relation to the business transformation strategy totalled 57.9m in the year.
In addition, there has been income of 2.2m in the year arising from recovery of costs relating to the Archer Capital litigation case following its conclusion in 2015.
All other litigation costs which may be incurred through the normal course of business are charged through operating expenses.
As a result of the prior year annual goodwill impairment review, an impairment of the goodwill held in the Brazilian business was recognised in 2015, totalling 62.3m.
See note 4 for the tax impact of these adjustments.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 129 Results for the year continued 4 Income tax expense This note analyses the tax expense for this financial year which includes both current and deferred tax.
Current tax expense represents the amount payable on this years taxable profits and any adjustments relating to prior years.
Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment to provide for tax that is expected to arise in the future due to differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
This note outlines the tax accounting policies, analyses the current and deferred tax expenses in the year and presents a reconciliation between profit before tax in the income statement multiplied by the UK rate of corporation tax and the tax expense for the year.
Accounting policy The taxation expense for the year represents the sum of current tax payable and deferred tax.
The expense is recognised in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income according to the accounting treatment of the related transaction.
Current tax payable or receivable is based on the taxable income for the period and any adjustment in respect of prior periods.
Current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax arises due to certain temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases note 12.
2016 2015 Analysis of charge in the year Note m m Current tax Current tax on profit for the year 90.3 106.9 Adjustment in respect of prior years 16.2 11.0 Current tax 74.1 95.9 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12.1 13.9 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4.9 0.5 Deferred tax 12 7.2 14.4 The current year tax expense is split into the following: Underlying tax expense 105.1 90.3 Tax credit on adjustments between the underlying and statutory operating profit 38.2 8.8 Income tax expense 66.9 81.5 The majority of the current tax adjustment in respect of prior years of 16.2m 2015: 11.0m reflects the resolution of a number of historical tax matters, including settlements with a number of tax authorities and true ups to prior year estimates.
2016 2015 m m Tax on items credited to other comprehensive income Deferred tax credit on actuarial loss on post-employment benefit obligations 0.8 0.6 Deferred tax credit on foreign exchange movements 2.6 - Total tax on items credited to other comprehensive income 3.4 0.6 Deferred tax credit relating to share options of 1.4m 2015: 1.2m has been recognised directly in equity.
130 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The tax for the year is higher 2015: higher than the rate of UK corporation tax applicable to the Group of 20% 2015: 20.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2016 2015 Note m m Statutory profit before income tax 274.5 275.8 Statutory profit before income tax multiplied by the rate of UK corporation tax of 20% 2015: 20.5% 54.9 56.5 Tax effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 11.3 11.5 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 23.3 22.4 Non-deductible expenses and permanent items 0.1 6.4 Non-deductible impairment 10.5 Foreign tax credit 3.0 Local business tax 2.8 3.3 R&D tax credits 0.7 1.7 Recognition of amortisation claims 1.0 4.4 Total statutory income tax 66.9 81.5 The effective tax rate on statutory profit before tax was 24% 2015: 30%, whilst the effective tax rate on underlying profit before tax was 26% 2015: 25%.
The difference between the statutory effective tax rate and the underlying tax rate relates to non-recurring items which are deductible in countries with a tax rate higher than the UK.
The underlying effective tax rate is higher than the UK corporation tax rate applicable to the Group due to the geographic profile of the Group.
In addition, there is an obligation to account for local business taxes in the corporate tax expense.
These additional tax expenses are offset by research and development tax credits which are a government incentive in a number of operating territories.
5 Earnings per share This note shows how earnings per share EPS is calculated.
EPS is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each ordinary share.
Diluted EPS shows what the impact would be if all outstanding, exercisable share options were exercised and treated as ordinary shares at the year-end.
This note also provides a reconciliation between the statutory profit figure, which ties to the consolidated income statement on page 113, and the Groups internal measure of performance, underlying profit.
See note 3.6 for details of the adjustments made between statutory and underlying profit, and note 4 for the tax impact on these adjustments.
Accounting policy Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury shares, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares, exercisable at the end of the year.
The Group has one class of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
They are share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 131 Results for the year continued 5 Earnings per share continued Underlying as Underlying reported Underlying Statutory Statutory Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares 2016 2015 2015 2016 2015 Earnings m Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 299.8 268.2 274.0 207.6 194.3 Number of shares millions Weighted average number of shares 1,077.0 1,073.0 1,073.0 1,077.0 1,073.0 Dilutive effects of shares 6.3 6.5 6.5 6.3 6.5 1,083.3 1,079.5 1,079.5 1,083.3 1,079.5 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share pence 27.84 25.00 25.54 19.28 18.11 Diluted earnings per share pence 27.67 24.85 25.38 19.16 18.00 2016 2015 Reconciliation between statutory and underlying earnings per share m m Earnings: Statutory profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 207.6 194.3 Adjustments: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 18.8 18.2 Goodwill impairment and fair value adjustments 2.7 64.5 Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances 5.9 Other acquisition-related items 0.7 Transformation costs and litigation related items 107.7 Taxation on adjustments 38.2 8.8 Net adjustments 92.2 73.9 Earnings underlying profit for the year before exchange movement 299.8 268.2 Exchange movement 7.8 Taxation on exchange movement 2.0 Net exchange movement 5.8 Earnings underlying profit for the year after exchange movement attributable to owners of the parent 299.8 274.0 Exchange movement relates to the retranslation of prior year results to current year exchange rates as shown in the table on page 49 within the financial review.
132 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Operating assets and liabilities 6 Intangible assets This note provides details of the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits.
These assets include items such as goodwill, and other intangible assets such as brands, customer relationships, computer software, in-process R&D and technology which have predominantly been acquired as part of business combinations.
These assets are initially measured at fair value, which is the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Goodwill represents the excess of the amount paid to acquire a business over the fair value of the net assets of that business at the acquisition date.
This section also explains the accounting policies applied and the specific judgements and estimates made by the directors in arriving at the carrying value of these assets.
6.1 Goodwill Accounting policy Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups total identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill previously written-off directly to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1 October 1998 has not been reinstated and is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the business to which it relates.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and when circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU to which the goodwill relates.
When the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination and the allocation represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored.
2016 2015 m m Cost at 1 October 1,526.4 1,476.7 Additions 61.9 Exchange movement 246.2 12.2 At 30 September 1,772.6 1,526.4 Impairment at 1 October 80.4 43.7 Impairment in the year 62.3 Exchange movement 33.7 25.6 At 30 September 114.1 80.4 Net book amount at 30 September 1,658.5 1,446.0 In the prior year the Group acquired Paychoice and recorded goodwill of 59.6m and also incurred a fair value adjustment of 2.3m in relation to the acquisition of Exact which was acquired on 15 September 2014.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 133 Operating assets and liabilities continued 6 Intangible assets continued 6.1 Goodwill continued Goodwill impairment tests The following table shows the allocation of the carrying value of goodwill at the end of the reporting period by CGU: 2016 2015 m m France 218.5 186.3 UK & Ireland 180.6 180.6 Spain 125.5 107.0 Sage Pay Europe 25.3 23.6 Germany 37.6 32.1 Switzerland 40.3 34.5 Poland 6.7 5.8 Portugal 5.5 4.7 North America Sage Business Solutions Division SBS 741.3 635.4 Sage Payment Solutions Division SPS 192.6 165.0 South Africa 42.7 36.3 Australia 22.6 19.0 Malaysia 13.9 11.2 Singapore 5.4 4.5 1,658.5 1,446.0 The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
In determining value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value.
In all cases, the 2017 budget and the approved Group plan for the three years following the current financial year form the basis for the cash flow projections for a CGU.
Beyond the three year plan these projections are extrapolated using an estimated long-term growth rate.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the average medium-term revenue growth rates and the long-term growth rates of net operating cash flows.
The average medium-term revenue growth rates represent the compound annual revenue growth for the first five 2015: five years.
The average medium-term revenue growth rate applied to CGUs reflects the specific rates for each territory.
Long-term growth rates of net operating cash flows are assumed to be equal to the long-term growth rate in the gross domestic product of the country in which the CGUs operations are undertaken reflecting the specific rates for each territory.
Range of rates used across the different CGUs 2016 2015 Average medium-term revenue growth rates 1%-14% 0%-20% Long-term growth rates to net operating cash flows 1.0%-3.5% 1.1%-4.2% Note: Average Medium-Term Revenue Growth Rate is calculated on value in use projections that exclude intercompany revenue.
134 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 In accordance with IAS 36, key assumptions for those CGUs where significant goodwill is held are disclosed.
These are deemed by management to be CGUs holding more than 10% of total goodwill.
The discount rate, average medium-term revenue growth rate and long-term growth rate assumptions used for the value in use calculation are shown below: Approximate Local Local Discount Long-Term Average MediumDiscount Rate pre-tax Growth Term Revenue 2016 Rate post-tax equivalent Rate Growth Rate UKI 8.8% 10.3% 2.1% 6.1% France 8.0% 11.4% 1.8% 6.3% North America SBS 9.0% 14.1% 1.9% 7.4% North America SPS 9.0% 14.3% 1.9% 1.3% Approximate Local Local Discount Discount Average MediumRate Rate pre-tax Long-Term Term Revenue 2015 post tax equivalent Growth Rate Growth Rate UKI 9.1% 10.7% 2.5% 6.7% France 8.5% 12.2% 2.1% 4.9% North America SBS 8.9% 13.2% 2.3% 10.0% North America SPS 8.9% 13.2% 2.3% 10.0% Note: Average Medium-Term Revenue Growth Rate is calculated on value in use projections that exclude intercompany revenue.
Discount rate The Group uses a discount rate based on a local Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC for each CGU, applying local government yield bonds and tax rates to each CGU on a geographical basis.
The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a post-tax rate that reflects the market assessment of the time value of money at the end of the Q3 2016 and the risks specific to the CGU.
The post-tax discount rates applied to CGUs were in the range of 6.96% 2015: 7.24% to 14.67% 2015: 17.48%, reflecting the specific rates for each territory.
Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis was performed for each of the significant CGUs and management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any CGU to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
Impairment charge The Group performed its annual test for impairment in the third quarter of 2016.
The recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value for all CGUs.
In the prior year an impairment of 62.3m was recognised, driven by economic uncertainty in Brazil.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 135 Operating assets and liabilities continued 6 Intangible assets continued 6.2 Other intangibles Accounting policy Intangible assets arising on business combinations are recognised initially at cost, which is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Subsequently they are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The main intangible assets recognised are brands, technology, in-process R&D, computer software and customer relationships.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Brand names 3 to 20 years Technology In process R&D IPR&D 3 to 7 years Customer relationships 4 to 15 years Computer software 2 to 5 years Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost, which is the assets purchase and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for its intended use, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses if applicable.
Software assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which do not exceed seven years.
The carrying value of intangibles is reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Internally generated software development costs qualify for capitalisation when the Group can demonstrate all of the following: The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it: Its ability to use or sell the intangible asset: how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits: The existence of a market or, if it is to be used internally, the usefulness of the intangible asset: The availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset: Its ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during development.
Generally, commercial viability of new products is not proven until all high risk development issues have been resolved through testing pre-launch versions of the product.
As a result, technical feasibility is proven only after completion of the detailed design phase and formal approval, which occurs just before the products are ready to go to market.
Accordingly, development costs have not been capitalised.
However, the group continues to assess the eligibility of development costs for capitalisation on a project by project basis.
Costs which are incurred after the general release of internally generated software or costs which are incurred in order to enhance existing products are expensed in the period in which they are incurred and included within research and development expense in the financial statements.
7 Property, plant and equipment This note details the physical assets used by the Group to operate the business and generate revenues and profits.
Assets are shown at their purchase price less depreciation, which is an expense that is charged over the useful life of these assets to reflect annual usage and wear and tear, and impairment.
Accounting policy Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is provided on a straight-line basis to write down an asset to its residual value over its useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Long leasehold buildings and improvements over period of lease Plant and equipment 2 to 7 years Motor vehicles 4 years Office equipment 2 to 7 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
An item of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 137 Operating assets and liabilities continued 7 Property, plant and equipment continued Motor vehicles Land and Plant and and office buildings equipment equipment Total m m m m Cost at 1 October 2015 91.3 143.5 54.3 289.1 Additions 15.9 7.6 23.5 Disposals 16.6 12.4 29.0 Exchange movement 2.6 14.3 6.4 23.3 At 30 September 2016 93.9 157.1 55.9 306.9 Accumulated depreciation at 1 October 2015 14.2 112.8 39.4 166.4 Charge for the year 1.3 15.7 5.2 22.2 Impairment 5.3 1.3 6.6 Disposals 16.6 12.3 28.9 Exchange movement 1.1 10.5 5.6 17.2 At 30 September 2016 16.6 127.7 39.2 183.5 Net book amount at 30 September 2016 77.3 29.4 16.7 123.4 Motor vehicles Land and Plant and and office buildings equipment equipment Total m m m m Cost at 1 October 2014 92.5 141.7 49.9 284.1 Additions 0.1 11.3 5.0 16.4 Disposals 6.5 2.3 8.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1.0 1.0 Exchange movement 1.3 4.0 1.7 3.6 At 30 September 2015 91.3 143.5 54.3 289.1 Accumulated depreciation at 1 October 2014 15.2 106.8 35.4 157.4 Charge for the year 1.3 12.8 4.1 18.2 Disposals 6.1 0.6 6.7 Exchange movement 2.3 0.7 0.5 2.5 At 30 September 2015 14.2 112.8 39.4 166.4 Net book amount at 30 September 2015 77.1 30.7 14.9 122.7 Assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 0.8m 2015: 1.0m are included in the above tables.
Depreciation expenses of 22.2m 2015: 18.2m and impairment of 6.6m 2015: nil have been charged through selling and administrative expenses note 3.2.
138 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 8 Investment in an associate This note presents information about the Groups investment in its associate, which is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control of those policies.
The Group determines whether it has significant influence based on the voting and any other rights it holds as a result of its investment and also any contractual arrangements in place.
Normally, if the Group holds over 20% of the voting rights of an entity without having control or joint control of that entity, the investment will be treated as an associate unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case.
Accounting policy The Groups investment in its associate is accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially measured at cost.
Subsequently, the carrying amount is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment separately.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the associates profit or loss after tax and any non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate.
Any change in the groups share of the associates other comprehensive income is presented as part of the Groups other comprehensive income.
In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any such changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of the associate is shown on the face of the income statement outside operating profit.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment is impaired.
If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss in the income statement.
On 4 May 2016, the Group acquired a 20.7% interest in Fairsail Limited Fairsail, a leading Human Capital Management HCM cloud provider to mid-sized, multinational companies.
Fairsail is a private entity incorporated in the UK and not listed on any public exchange.
The cost of this investment totalled 10.0m.
The Groups investment constitutes 100% of Fairsails C Ordinary Shares.
At 30 September 2016, the carrying amount of the Groups investment in its associate was 9.0m, and the Groups share of its total comprehensive income for the year ended 30 September 2016 was a loss of 1.0m, comprising losses from continuing operations.
The Group had no contingent liabilities in relation to its investment in its associate at 30 September 2016.
9 Working capital This note provides the amounts invested by the Group in working capital balances at the end of the financial year.
Working capital is made up of inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
Inventories mainly consist of warehouse stock of Sage products, awaiting shipment to business partners or distributors.
Trade and other receivables are made up of amounts owed to the Group by customers and amounts that we pay to our suppliers in advance.
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad and doubtful debts.
Our trade and other payables are amounts we owe to our suppliers that have been invoiced to us or accrued by us.
They also include taxes and social security amounts due in relation to our role as an employer.
This note also gives some additional detail on the age and recoverability of our trade receivables, which provide an understanding of the credit risk faced by the Group as a part of everyday trading.
Credit risk is further disclosed in the Directors Report.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 139 Operating assets and liabilities continued 9 Working capital continued 9.1 Inventories Accounting policy Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making allowances for slow moving or obsolete items.
Cost includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in-first-out method.
2016 2015 m m Materials 0.7 0.6 Work in progress 0.1 0.1 Finished goods 1.3 1.3 2.1 2.0 The Group consumed 9.4m 2015: 8.0m of inventories, included in cost of sales, during the year.
There was no material write down of inventories during the current or prior year.
9.2 Trade and other receivables Accounting policy Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
2016 2015 Amounts falling due within one year: m m Trade receivables 363.2 292.7 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 20.7 17.8 Trade receivables net 342.5 274.9 Other receivables 41.4 20.6 Prepayments and accrued income 35.6 25.4 419.5 320.9 The Groups credit risk on trade and other receivables is primarily attributable to trade receivables.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk since the risk is spread over a large number of unrelated counterparties.
The Group considers the credit quality of trade and other receivables by geographical location.
The Group considers that the carrying value of the trade and other receivables that is disclosed below gives a fair presentation of the credit quality of the assets.
2016 2015 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income by geographical location: m m Europe 262.9 210.7 North America 63.8 52.0 International 57.2 32.8 383.9 295.5 140 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2016 2015 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: m m At 1 October 17.8 25.5 Increase in provision for receivables impairment 7.6 5.7 Receivables written-off during the year as uncollectible 6.4 6.1 Unused amounts reversed 1.3 6.0 Exchange movement 3.0 1.3 At 30 September 20.7 17.8 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers the ageing of each receivable and any change in the circumstances of the individual receivables.
The directors believe that there is no further provision required in excess of the provision for impairment of receivables.
The creation and releases of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in selling and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the provision are generally written-off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
At 30 September 2016, trade receivables of 33.4m 2015: 30.2m were either partially or fully impaired.
2016 2015 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m Not due 0.3 7.1 Less than six months past due 14.1 5.9 More than six months past due 19.0 17.2 33.4 30.2 Trade receivables which were past their due date but not impaired at 30 September 2016 were 52.9m 2015: 45.8m.
2016 2015 The ageing of these receivables was as follows: m m Less than six months past due 46.4 41.2 More than six months past due 6.5 4.6 52.9 45.8 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the fair value of each class of receivables mentioned above.
The Group held no collateral as security.
The directors estimate that the carrying value of trade receivables approximated their fair value.
9.3 Trade and other payables Accounting policy Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
2016 2015 Trade and other payables can be analysed as follows: m m Trade payables 35.4 23.3 Other tax and social security payable 43.2 41.8 Other payables 37.2 22.2 Cash held on behalf of customers see note 13.3 83.8 83.8 Accruals 150.9 140.1 350.5 311.2 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 141 Operating assets and liabilities continued 10 Provisions This note provides details of the provisions recognised by the Group, where a liability exists of uncertain timing or amount.
The main estimates in this area relate to legal exposure, employee severance, onerous leases and dilapidation charges.
This section also explains the accounting policies applied and the specific judgements and estimates made by the directors in arriving at the value of these liabilities.
Accounting policy A provision is recognised only when all three of the following conditions are met: The Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event: It is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation: and A reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the present value of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, i. e. the present value of the amount that the Group would rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or to transfer it to a third party.
Restructuring Legal Building Other Total m m m m m At 1 October 2015 15.2 3.5 1.6 20.3 Additional provision in the year 17.6 0.4 29.1 2.2 49.3 Provision utilised in the year 0.4 3.3 1.2 1.2 6.1 Unused amounts reversed 1.8 2.4 4.2 Exchange movement 1.9 1.8 3.4 0.6 7.7 At 30 September 2016 19.1 12.3 32.4 3.2 67.0 Restructuring Legal Building Other Total m m m m m Maturity profile 1 year 19.1 7.0 8.7 2.8 37.6 1 2 years 1.9 6.4 0.3 8.6 2 5 years 3.3 17.3 0.1 20.7 5 years 0.1 0.1 At 30 September 2016 19.1 12.3 32.4 3.2 67.0 Restructuring provisions are for the estimated costs of group restructuring activities and relate mainly to employee severance.
These provisions will be utilised as obligations are settled which is generally expected to be within one year.
Legal provisions have been made in relation to ongoing disputes with third parties and other claims against the Group.
The ageing of legal provisions is assessed regularly, based upon internal and external legal advice, as required.
Building provisions relate to dilapidation charges and onerous lease commitments.
The timing of the cash flows associated with building provisions is dependent on the timing of lease agreement termination.
Other provisions comprise mainly those for the costs of warranty cover provided by the Group in respect of products sold to third parties.
The timing of the cash flows associated with warranty provisions is spread over the period of warranty with the majority of the claims expected in the first year.
142 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 11 Post-employment benefits This note explains the accounting policies governing the Groups pension schemes, analyses the deficit on the defined benefit pension scheme and shows how it has been calculated.
The majority of the Groups employees are members of defined contribution pension schemes.
Additionally, the Group operates two small defined benefit schemes in France and Switzerland.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions into separate funds on behalf of the employee and has no further obligations to employees.
The risks associated with this type of plan are assumed by the member.
Contributions paid by the Group in respect of the current period are included in the income statement.
The defined benefit scheme is a pension arrangement under which participating members receive a pension benefit at retirement determined by the scheme rules, salary and length of pensionable service.
The income statement charge for the defined benefit scheme is the current past service cost and the net interest cost which is the change in the net defined benefit liability that arises from the passage of time.
The Group underwrites both financial and demographic risks associated with this type of plan.
Accounting policy Obligations under defined contribution schemes are recognised as an operating cost in the income statement as incurred.
The Group also operates a small defined benefit pension scheme in Switzerland and other post-employment benefit schemes in France.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from the assets of the Group.
Under French legislation, the Group is required to make one-off payments to employees in France who reach retirement age while still in employment.
The costs of providing benefits under these schemes are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in selling and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Past service costs should be recognised on the earlier of the date of the plan amendment and the date the Group recognises  costs.
Interest on the pension plan assets and the imputed interest on pension plan liabilities are included within selling and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Changes in the post-employment benefit obligation due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of comprehensive income in full in the period in which they arise.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligation and future administration costs at the end of the reporting period, less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximate to the terms of the related pension liability.
The calculation of the defined benefit obligation of a defined benefit plan requires estimation of future events, for example salary and pension increases, inflation and mortality rates.
In the event that future experience does not bear out the estimates made in previous years, an adjustment will be made to the plans defined benefit obligation in future periods which could have a material effect on the Group.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on the significant assumptions.
The relevant assumptions are deemed to be the discount rate and salary increases, as these are most likely to have a material impact on the defined benefit obligations.
The analysis has been performed by the independent actuaries.
2016 2015 Pension costs included in the consolidated income statement Note m m Defined contribution schemes 9.6 9.8 Defined benefit plans 2.0 2.0 3.3 11.6 11.8 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 143 Operating assets and liabilities continued 11 Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit plans The most recent actuarial valuations of the post-employment benefit plans were performed by KPMG France and PwC Switzerland in October 2016 for the year ended 30 September 2016.
2016 2015 Weighted average principal assumptions made by the actuaries % % Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.00 2.02 Discount rate 0.43 1.12 Inflation assumption 2.00 2.02 2016 2015 Mortality rate assumptions made by the actuaries years years Average life expectancy for 65-year-old male 21.0 22.2 Average life expectancy for 65-year-old female 23.8 24.5 Average life expectancy for 45-year-old male 39.9 42.5 Average life expectancy for 45-year-old female 43.5 45.0 2016 2015 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet m m Present value of funded obligations 46.0 36.6 Fair value of plan assets 20.7 17.9 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 25.3 18.7 2016 2015 Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets m % m % Bonds quoted 8.3 40.1 6.3 35.2 Equities quoted 5.0 24.1 5.9 33.0 Other unquoted 7.4 35.8 5.7 31.8 20.7 100.0 17.9 100.0 Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 30 September 2017 are 1.2m 2015: expected contributions year ending 30 September 2016 2.0m.
2016 2015 Amounts recognised in the income statement m m Net interest costs on obligation 0.3 0.3 Current service cost 1.7 1.7 Total included within staff costs all within selling and administrative expenses 2.0 2.0 2016 2015 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation m m At 1 October 36.6 30.8 Exchange movement 6.6 0.2 Service cost 1.7 1.7 Plan participant contributions 0.6 0.6 Interest cost 0.4 0.5 Benefits paid 1.9 1.5 Actuarial gain demographic assumptions 0.8 Actuarial loss financial assumptions 3.5 1.8 Actuarial gain loss experience 0.7 2.5 At 30 September 46.0 36.6 144 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2016 2015 Changes in the fair value of plan assets m m At 1 October 17.9 17.2 Exchange movement 3.1 1.0 Interest income 0.1 0.2 Employers contributions 1.1 0.9 Plan participant contributions 0.6 0.6 Benefits paid 1.9 1.5 Actuarial loss on plan assets 0.2 0.5 At 30 September 20.7 17.9 2016 2015 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability m m At 1 October 18.7 13.6 Exchange movement 3.5 0.8 Total expense as recognised in the income statement 2.0 2.0 Contributions paid 1.1 0.9 Actuarial loss 2.2 4.8 At 30 September 25.3 18.7 2016 2015 Sensitivity analysis on significant actuarial assumptions m m Discount rate applied to Scheme obligations - 0.5% pa 2.6 2.1 Salary increases - 0.5% pa 1.4 0.9 12 Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is an accounting adjustment to provide for tax that is expected to arise in the future due to differences in the carrying value of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
In this note we outline the accounting policies, movements in the year on the deferred tax account and the net deferred tax asset or liability at the year-end.
A deferred tax asset represents a tax reduction that is expected to arise in a future period.
A deferred tax liability represents taxes which will become payable in a future period as a result of a current or an earlier transaction.
Accounting policy Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 145 Operating assets and liabilities continued 12 Deferred income tax continued 2016 2015 The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: m m At 1 October 26.9 10.3 Income statement credit 7.2 14.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2.3 Exchange movement 6.3 1.7 Other comprehensive income equity movement in deferred tax 4.8 1.6 At 30 September 45.2 26.9 On 16 March 2016, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced that the planned reduction to 18% from 1 April 2020 would instead be a reduction to 17%.
The Finance Bill has been substantively enacted and as such the UK tax balances which are expected to unwind beyond 1 April 2020 have been remeasured to account for these planned changes.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
A potential deferred tax asset on losses of 15.0m 2015: 10.7m has not been recognised as it is not expected that these losses will be recovered in the foreseeable future.
All underlying temporary differences where a deferred tax liability arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates have been appropriately recognised where it is probable the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12, Income Taxes during the year are shown below.
The offsetting of these balances is shown within the reclassification line of the notes below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities categorised as other deferred tax of 49.3m 2015: 22.3m includes various balances in relation to accounting provisions accruals asset 37.1m 2015: 15.5m, goodwill amortisation liability 18.1m 2015: 24.1m, deferred revenue asset 19.1m 2015: 20.8m and other sundry amounts asset 11.2m 2015: 10.1m.
Intangible Tax assets losses Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 1 October 2015 3.8 2.8 35.2 34.2 Income statement credit 4.3 1.4 7.2 12.9 Reclassification to deferred tax liability 6.8 4.8 2.0 Other comprehensive income equity movement in deferred tax 4.8 4.8 Exchange movement 1.9 1.3 9.1 8.5 At 30 September 2016 8.2 5.5 61.1 58.4 Deferred tax liabilities At 1 October 2015 12.7 18.3 12.9 7.3 Income statement credit debit 3.7 4.4 5.0 5.7 Reclassification from deferred tax asset 7.2 0.7 8.5 2.0 Exchange movement 2.8 3.0 2.4 2.2 At 30 September 2016 19.0 17.6 11.8 13.2 Net deferred tax liability asset at 30 September 2016 27.2 23.1 49.3 45.2 146 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Intangible assets Losses Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m At 1 October 2014 8.6 3.0 35.0 29.4 Income statement credit 3.3 0.3 2.9 6.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 18.6 0.3 18.3 Reclassification to deferred tax liability 2.9 18.3 0.9 16.3 Other comprehensive income equity movement in deferred tax 1.6 1.6 Exchange movement 1.4 0.8 3.1 5.3 At 30 September 2015 3.8 2.8 35.2 34.2 Deferred tax liabilities At 1 October 2014 3.7 15.4 19.1 Income statement credit 5.4 2.5 7.9 Reclassification from deferred tax asset 16.5 0.5 16.0 Reclassification to other deferred tax 2.9 18.3 0.9 16.3 Change in tax rate 2.8 2.8 Exchange movement 2.2 1.4 3.6 At 30 September 2015 12.7 18.3 12.9 7.3 Net deferred tax liability asset at 30 September 2015 16.5 21.1 22.3 26.9 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 147 Net debt and capital structure 13 Cash flow and net debt This note analyses our operational cash generation, shows the movement in our net debt in the year, and explains what is included within our cash balances and borrowings at the year-end.
Cash generated from operations is the starting point of our cash flow statement on page 117.
This section outlines the adjustments for any non-cash accounting items to reconcile our accounting profit for the year to the amount of cash we generated from our operations.
Net debt represents the amount of cash held less borrowings, overdrafts, finance lease payments due and cash held on behalf of customers.
Borrowings are mostly made up of fixed-term external debt which the Group has taken out in order to finance acquisitions in the past.
13.1 Cash flow generated from continuing operations 2016 2015 Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from continuing operations m m Profit for the year 207.6 194.3 Adjustments for: Income tax 66.9 81.5 Finance income 5.1 2.2 Finance costs 30.0 23.6 Share of loss of an associate 1.0 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 29.6 29.1 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 28.8 18.2 R&D tax credits 2.0 2.3 Equity-settled share-based transactions 7.9 9.1 Fair value adjustments and goodwill impairment 64.5 Exchange movement 0.4 4.7 Changes in working capital excluding effects of acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries : Decrease increase in inventories 0.2 0.2 Increase in trade and other receivables 53.8 8.4 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 50.8 6.8 Increase in deferred income 36.4 22.9 Cash generated from continuing operations 397.9 418.6 13.2 Net debt 2016 2015 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt inclusive of finance leases m m Decrease increase in cash in the year pre-exchange movements 22.7 90.5 Cash inflow outflow from movement in loans, finance leases and cash held on behalf of customers 133.2 17.8 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 110.5 72.7 Acquisitions 16.4 21.3 Non-cash movements 1.0 Exchange movement 64.7 39.6 Movement in net debt in the year 28.4 11.8 Net debt at 1 October 425.4 437.2 Net debt at 30 September 397.0 425.4 148 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 At At 1 October Non-cash Exchange 30 September 2015 Cash flow Acquisitions movements movement 2016 Analysis of change in net debt inclusive of finance leases m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 263.4 18.4 16.4 35.9 264.5 Bank overdrafts 4.3 4.3 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 263.4 22.7 16.4 35.9 260.2 Finance leases due within one year 0.6 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.4 Loans due within one year 33.0 34.7 34.7 5.6 38.6 Loans due after more than one year 571.0 84.9 33.7 81.8 534.2 Finance leases due after more than one year 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 Cash held on behalf of customers 83.8 13.0 13.0 83.8 Total 425.4 110.5 16.4 1.0 64.7 397.0 Included in cash above is 83.8m 2015: 83.8m relating to cash held on behalf of customers.
This arises as a consequence of providing payment transaction processing and electronic fund transfer services.
The balance represents cash in transit from third parties to Sage Customers.
Accordingly, a liability for the same amount is included in trade and other payables on the balance sheet and is classified within net debt.
13.3 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts Accounting policy For the purpose of preparation of the consolidated statement of cash flows and the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity period of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are an integral part of a subsidiarys cash management are included in cash and cash equivalents where they have a legal right of set-off and there is an intention to settle net, against positive cash balances, otherwise bank overdrafts are classified as borrowings.
2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 126.6 179.6 Cash held on behalf of customers 83.8 83.8 Short-term bank deposits 54.1 264.5 263.4 In line with contractual obligations or company practice, cash held on behalf of customers is held in separate bank accounts by the Group until such time as these amounts are paid.
The credit risk on liquid funds is considered to be low, as the Board-approved Group treasury policy limits the value that can be invested with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
The Group policy is to place cash and cash equivalents with counterparties which are well established banks with high credit ratings where available.
In some jurisdictions there is limited availability of such counterparties.
At 30 September 2016, 81% 2015: 83% of the cash and cash equivalents balance was deposited with financial institutions rated at least A3 by Moodys Investors Service.
The investment instruments utilised are money market funds, money market term deposits and bank deposits.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to cash and cash equivalents is their carrying amount in the balance sheet.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 149
