External appointments Executive directors are permitted, where appropriate and with Board approval, to take non-executive directorships with other organisations in order to broaden their knowledge and experience in other markets and countries.
Fees received by the directors in their capacity as directors of these companies are retained, reecting the personal responsibility they undertake in these roles.
The Board recognises the significant demands that are made on executive and non-executive directors and has therefore adopted a policy that no executive director should hold more than two directorships of other listed companies.
The Board encourages executive directors to limit other directorships to one listed company.
Except in exceptional circumstances where approved in advance by the Chairman of the Committee, if an executive director holds non-executive positions at more than one listed company then only the fees from one such company will be retained by the director.
No formal limit on other board appointments applies to non-executive directors under the policy but prior approval not to be unreasonably withheld from the Chairman on behalf of the Board is required in the case of any new appointment.
In the case of the Chairman, prior approval of the Nomination Committee is required on behalf of the Board.
Unexpired term of contract table Unexpired term of contract on 30 September 2016, or on date of Director Date of contract contract if later Notice period under contract Executive directors S Kelly 5 November 2014 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual S Hare 3 January 2014 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual Non-executive directors N Berkett 1 July 2016 2 years 9 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D H Brydon 6 July 2012 9 months 6 months from the Company and or individual J Howell 15 May 2016 2 years 8 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual R Markland 13 September 2016 1 year 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D Hall 1 January 2014 3 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual I Kuznetsova 6 March 2014 5 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration The following directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the directors remuneration for the year were being considered: Ruth Markland Drummond Hall Chair Donald Brydon Jonathan Howell Neil Berkett Inna Kuznetsova The Committee received assistance from Sandra Campopiano Chief People Ocer, Tina Clayton Executive Vice President, Reward & Recognition, Michael Robinson former Company Secretary and Vicki Bradin Company Secretary and other members of management, who may attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee the Committee The main activities of the Committee since the last report were as follows: Reviewed the performance of the Group for the year, and the performance of the executive directors in order to determine bonus outcomes Approved share awards for FY16 Set base salaries and established the executive directors bonus arrangements for 2017 Reviewed the Directors remuneration report Considered remuneration market trends and corporate governance developments Approved the base salaries for 2017 and the 2016 bonuses of Executive Committee members Reviewed the long-term performance of the Group over the last three years in order to determine vesting levels for the PSP granted in March 2014 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 99 Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued External advisers The Remuneration Committee continues to receive advice from Deloitte, an independent rm of remuneration consultants appointed by the Committee after consultation with the Board.
During the year, Deloittes executive compensation advisory practice advised the Committee on developments in market practice, corporate governance, institutional investor views and in the development of the Companys incentive arrangements.
Total fees for advice provided to the Committee during the year were 48,505.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received has been objective and independent.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Other parts of Deloitte have provided tax advice, specic corporate finance support in the context of merger and acquisition activity and unrelated corporate advisory services.
Statement of shareholding voting The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Remuneration report and policy at the 2016 AGM: Votes for Votes against Number % Number % Votes cast Votes withheld Remuneration report 772,197,384 98.01 15,684,604 1.99 787,881,988 2,911,089 Policy 767,613,442 97.43 20,268,897 2.57 787,882,339 2,910,738 Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 November 2016 100 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited consolidated Viability statement financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2016.
The Annual In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Report & Accounts contains statements that are not based on current Code, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation or historical fact and are forward-looking in nature.
Please refer to the that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they Disclaimer on page 105. fall due, for the next three years.
A period of three years has been chosen for the purpose of this viability statement, for the reasons explained on page 41.
Strategic report The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the The directors robust assessment has been made with reference to following matters can be found on the following pages of the the Groups current position and prospects, the business transformation Strategic report: strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed in pages 36 to 45 of the Subject matter Page Strategic Report.
Future developments 31 Chief Executives review The strategy and associated principal risks, which the directors review Greenhouse gas emissions 62-63 Environment section at least annually, are a foundation for the Groups strategic plan and scenario testing.
The plan makes certain assumptions about the uptake Corporate governance statement of subscription services, the ability to refinance debt as it falls due and The Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR require the acceptable performance of the core revenue streams and certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement market segments.
This information can be found in the Corporate The plan is stress tested using sensitivity analysis which reflects governance report on pages 70 to 80, which is incorporated into this plausible but severe combinations of the principal risks of the business, Directors report by reference and, in the case of the information primarily through reducing revenues and cash flows.
Research and development Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 During the year, we incurred a cost of 144m 2015: 141m in respect Information on allotments of shares for cash pursuant to the Group of research and development.
Please see page 126 for further details.
employee share schemes can be found on page 153 within the notes to the Group financial statements.
Political donations No political donations were made in the year.
Results and dividends The results for the year are set out from page 113.
Full details of the proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 30 September Directors and their interests 2016 are set out on page 159.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the 9.35p per share following the payment of an interim dividend of 4.80p Company, their interests in its long-term performance share plan and per share on 3 June 2016.
The proposed total dividend for the year is details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company therefore 14.15p per share.
are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 97.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its Going concern operating companies at any time during the year.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that Sage has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were directors the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of the Company can be found on pages 66 to 67. of the financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying third-party going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In reaching indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in place under this conclusion, the directors have had due regard to the following: which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors of the The cash generated from operations, available cash resources and Company to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys articles committed bank facilities and their maturities, which taken together, of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with provide confidence that Sage will be able to meet its obligations as the performance of their duties as a director of the Company or its they fall due.
Further information on the available cash resources subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are available for review at and committed bank facilities is provided in Note 14 to the the Companys registered office.
financial statements The financial position of Sage, its cash flows, financial risk management Employment policy policies and available debt facilities, which are described in the financial The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications statements, and Sages business activities, together with the factors for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their likely to impact its future growth and operating performance, which respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 63. the continued employment of those who may become disabled during their employment and the provision of training and career development and promotion, where appropriate.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 101 Directors report continued The Group has continued its policy of employee involvement by making Dividends and distributions information available to employees on matters of concern to them.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, Colleagues regularly receive updates on the financial and economic by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but factors affecting the Group.
Many colleagues are stakeholders in the no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Company through participation in share option schemes and a The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, long-term performance share plan.
Further details of colleague whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the engagement are given on pages 54 to 57.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Substantial shareholdings At 30 September 2016, the Company had been notified, in accordance Liquidation with the DTRs, of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority of Name Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required by the statutes as defined in the articles of association : Aviva Investors 62,996,904 5.83% Direct and indirect Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the BlackRock Inc 58,605,472 5.42% Indirect assets of the Company: or Standard Life 56,480,398 5.23% Direct and indirect Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts In the period from 30 September 2016 to the date of this report, we for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, received a further notification from Standard Life, Inc. indicating that shall think fit.
the holdings of Standard Life stood at 4.63% of capital.
Transfer of shares Information provided to the Company under the DTRs is publicly Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any available via the regulatory information service and on the of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual Company website.
form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, Share capital in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer of The Companys share capital is as set out on page 153.
The Company a certificated share which is not a fully paid share although not so as to has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares prevent dealings in shares taking place on an open and proper basis or 4 of 1 77p each.
on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share Rights and obligations attaching to shares unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, or at such other Voting place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the the certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the voting attached to any class of shares in the Company of which there intending transferor or his or her right to transfer the shares.
are none : The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held On a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who in uncertificated form and, subject to the articles of association, title to is a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the uncertificated shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system representative of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy of a and may revoke any such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an member shall have one vote, except that a proxy has one vote for and uncertificated share may be refused where permitted by the statutes one vote against a resolution if the proxy has been appointed by more as defined in the articles of association.
than one member and has been given conflicting voting instructions by those members, or has been given discretion as to how to vote Repurchase of shares On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual General have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder Meeting 1 March 2016 to buy back up to 107,913,441 ordinary shares.
The minimum price which must be paid for each ordinary share is its No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class nominal value and the maximum price set out in the resolution is the meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other higher of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
List for the five business days immediately before the purchase is made Deadlines for voting rights and the amount stipulated by article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses.
Share repurchases the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be are used from time to time as a method to control the Groups leverage held on 28 February 2017 will be set out in the Notice of Annual and decisions are made against strict price, volume and returns criteria General Meeting.
that are agreed by the Board and regularly reviewed.
102 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 In the year under review, the Company made no share repurchases.
The Significant agreements Employee Benefit Trust purchased a total of 385,000 ordinary shares of The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the 4 1 77p at a price of 619.9p per share.
counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: In the year under review no treasury shares were cancelled.
Total share awards of 3,006,938 were made out of shares held by the Employee Under a note purchase agreement dated 11 March 2010 relating to Benefit Trust.
US$50 million senior notes, Series C, due 11 March 2017 between the Company and the note holders, on a change of control, the Company will not take any action that consummates or finalises a change of Amendment of the Companys articles of association control unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it shall Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made have given to each holder of notes written notice containing and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of constituting an offer to prepay all notes on a date specified in such special resolution.
offer which shall be a business day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the change of control which is not less than 30 days Appointment and replacement of directors or more than 60 days after the date of the notice of prepayments.
Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
Where a holder of notes accepts the offer to prepay, the prepayment Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or shall be 100% of the principal amount of the notes together with by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall be made on the the next Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the proposed prepayment date.
No prepayment under a change of shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more control shall include any premium of any kind.
directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject Under a note purchase agreement dated 20 May 2013 relating to to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine US$50 million senior notes, Series D, due 20 May 2018, US$150 million and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
senior notes, Series E, due 20 May 2020, US$150 million senior notes, Under the articles of association, at every Annual General Meeting of Series F, due 20 May 2023 and US$50 million senior notes, Series G, the Company, every director shall retire from office but shall be eligible due 20 May 2025 between Sage Treasury Company Ltd and the note for election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by holders and guaranteed by the Company, on a change of control of special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has the Company, the Company will not take any action that consummates been given remove, and the Board may, by unanimous decision remove, or finalises a change of control unless at least 15 business days prior any director before the expiration of his or her term of office.
The office of to such action it shall have given to each holder of notes written director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: ii he or she has become notice containing and constituting an offer to prepay all notes on a physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may remain date specified in such offer which shall be a business day occurring so for more than three months and the Board resolves that his or her subsequent to the effective date of the change of control which is not office is vacated: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Board less than 30 days or more than 60 days after the date of the notice of from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board prepayments.
Where a holder of notes accepts the offer to prepay, resolves that his or her office is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt the prepayment shall be 100% of the principal amount of the notes or makes an arrangement or composition with his or her creditors together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall be made generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or vi on the proposed prepayment date.
No prepayment under a change he or she is removed from office pursuant to the articles of association.
of control shall include any premium of any kind.
Under a dual tranche US$551 million and 218 million five-year Powers of the directors multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 26 June 2014 The business of the Company will be managed by the Board which may between, amongst others, Sage Treasury Company Limited and exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Lloyds Bank plc as facility agent and guaranteed by the Company, Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any on a change of control, if any individual lender so requires and after ordinary resolution of the Company.
having consulted with Sage Treasury Company Limited in good faith for not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to Sage Treasury The trustee of The Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT has Company Limited, cancel the commitment of that lender and declare agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
the participation of that lender in all outstanding loans, together with If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the finance will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares documents, immediately due and payable, whereupon the commitment which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard of that lender will be cancelled and all such outstanding amounts will to the interests of the award holders and will have power to consult become immediately due and payable.
them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee may take action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 103
