Board of Directors and Company Secretary Corporate governance report Remuneration report Group Management Committee Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the In addition, each of the Directors considers that this Annual Report and Consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and and regulations.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Companies Act 2006, being the applicable law in the UK, requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the The Directors have prepared the Group and the Company financial audited financial information on the website at www.
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The financial Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Forward-looking statements In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: This Annual Report and Accounts and the Schroders website may Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
condition, performance and position, strategy, results of operations State that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by and businesses of the Company and the Group.
Such statements and the EU, subject to any material departure disclosed and explained forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they are based on in the financial statements.
current expectations and assumptions but relate to events and depend Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it upon circumstances in the future and you should not place reliance on is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, them.
Without limitation, any statements preceded or followed by or in which case there should be supporting assumptions or that include the words targets, plans, believes, expects, confident, qualifications as necessary.
aims, will have, will be, will ensure, estimates or anticipates or the negative of these terms or other similar terms are intended to identify The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency such forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that Rules of the FCA to include a management report containing a fair could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from review of the business and a description of the principal risks and those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group.
Forward-looking statements and forecasts are based on the Directors current view and information known to them at the date The Directors are responsible for keeping proper books of accounting of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors do not make any records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report a forecast, estimate or projection of future financial performance.
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors statement Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section of this Annual Report and Accounts, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: The consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the Group.
The Directors report contained in this Annual Report and Accounts which comprises the sections described on page 66, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
The Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Financial report Consolidated financial statements 101 Notes to the accounts 108 Schroders plc financial statements 153 Independent Auditors report 164 98 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Insurance companies Our specialist team manages 35 billion assets for insurance companies, offering risk management expertise, specialist investment skills and dedicated actuarial resource.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 Financial report Financial report contents Helping you to navigate through this section of the report Index Consolidated income statement 101 The financial review is incorporated within the Business and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 101 financial review on pages 18 to 23 and alongside some of the Consolidated statement of financial position 103 primary statements on pages 102, 104 and 106.
It forms part Consolidated statement of changes in equity 105 of the Strategic report and does not form part of the financial Consolidated cash flow statement 107 statements of the Group.
N et gains on financial instruments and other income 112 5.
Unit-linked liabilities and assets backing unit-linked liabilities 124 16.
Share capital and share premium 136 22.
Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities 138 24.
Interests in structured entities 147 29. Business combinations 149 30.
Events after the reporting period 150 Presentation of the financial statements 151 Schroders plc Statement of financial position 153 Statement of changes in equity 154 Cash flow statement 155 Notes to the Schroders plc accounts 31.
Subsidiaries and other related undertakings 159 Independent auditors report 164 100 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016
