| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out c Valuation of debt in paragraphs a to j below.
All have been applied The Companys secured bonds and debentures are held consistently throughout the current and the preceding at amortised cost being the nominal value of the bonds year: in issue less the unamortised costs of issue.
a Basis of accounting d Income The Financial Statements are prepared on a going Dividends receivable on quoted shares are brought into concern basis see page 28 under the historical cost account on the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable convention, modified to include the revaluation of on shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are investments at fair value, and in accordance with brought into account when the Companys right to applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
This receive payment is established.
is the first year that the Company has presented its Financial Statements under Financial Reporting Standard Interest and other income from non-equity securities, 102 FRS 102 issued by the Financial Reporting Council including debt securities, are recognised on a time and under the AICs Statement of Recommended apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust on the securities.
Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in 2014.
The last Financial Statements under previous Where the Company elects to receive dividends in the UK GAAP were for the year ended 31 October 2015 and form of additional shares scrip dividends rather than in the date of transition to FRS 102 was therefore cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as 1 November 2014.
There have been no changes in income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received accounting policies as a consequence of adopting FRS over the amount of the cash is recognised in capital 102.
The Cash Flow Statement and details of the Pension reserves.
Scheme note 4 for 31 October 2015, have been re-presented to be consistent with the format of FRS e Expenses 102.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The functional and presentation currency is pounds sterling, which is the currency of the Investment expenses are allocated equally between environment in which the Company operates.
revenue and capital reserve in line with the Directors expectations of the nature of long-term future returns b Valuation of investments from the Companys investments 2015: same.
Listed investments and current asset investments are valued at fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value is Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or the closing bid or last traded price according to the disposal of an investment are treated as part of the cost, recognised convention of the markets on which they are or deducted from the sales proceeds, of the investment.
Where trading in the securities of an investee company is suspended, the investment is valued at the f Finance costs Boards estimate of its net realisable value.
Interest payable is charged one-half to revenue reserve and one-half to capital reserve in line with the Directors Where appropriate, the Directors have adopted the expectations of long-term future returns from the guidelines issued by the International Private Equity and Companys investments 2015: same.
Venture Capital Association for the valuation of unlisted investments.
Heritable property is included at a The discount on, and expenses of issue of, the secured professional valuation.
Depreciation is not charged on bonds due 2030 are included in the financing costs of heritable property as it is not material.
the issue which are being written off over the life of the bonds.
Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments, permanent impairments in the value of g Taxation investments and unrealised surpluses and deficits on the Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid revaluation of investments are taken to capital reserve as or recovered.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences Year end exchange rates are used to translate the value which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to of investments which are denominated in foreign pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date.
indd 43 05 01 2017 08:51 44 | 45 Accounting Policies continued Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of j Pensions income and expenditure in taxation computations in Employer contributions for the defined benefit scheme periods different from those in which they are included are calculated by reference to the triennial actuarial in the Financial Statements.
Deferred tax assets are valuation.
Employer contributions for the defined recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more contribution scheme are a predetermined percentage likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax of the employees salary.
assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The Company Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the has no deferred tax asset or liability.
h Foreign currency Further information on the Companys pension scheme Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are is contained in note 4 to the Financial Statements on recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates pages 46 to 48. at the date of the transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward contract.
Assets Critical accounting estimates and judgements and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the The preparation of the financial statements necessarily year end are reported at the rates of exchange requires the exercise of judgement, both in application prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a of accounting policies, which are set out above, and change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the in the selection of assumptions used in the calculation transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are capital reserve or in the revenue account depending on reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
evaluated based on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these i Capital reserve estimates.
The most significantly affected component The following are accounted for in this reserve: of the financial statements and associated critical judgements is as follows: gains and losses on the realisation of investments: realised and unrealised exchange differences of a Defined benefit scheme capital nature: realised and unrealised gains and losses on The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a calculation of the defined benefit scheme's liabilities capital nature: includes a number of assumptions around mortality the funding of share and secured bond buybacks: and inflation rates applicable to defined benefit expenses and interest charged to capital: schemes.
More detail is given in note 4 of the financial increases and decreases in the valuation of statements.
The Directors take actuarial advice when investments held at the year end: and selecting these assumptions and when selecting the increases and decreases in the valuation of the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit pension fund surplus or deficit.
