66 | 67 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which twenty-ninth annual general meeting of The Scottish may be paid for a share shall be the higher of: Investment Trust PLC will be held at The Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh i 105% of the average of the middle market EH2 1JQ, on 3 February 2017 at 10.30am, for the quotations as derived from the Daily Official purpose of transacting the following: List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date 1.
To receive and consider the Directors Report and of purchase: and statement of accounts for the year to 31 October 2016. ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid 2.
To approve the Directors' remuneration policy.
on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 31 October 2016. d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 3 May 4.
To declare a final dividend of 8.25p per share.
2018, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares 5.
To declare a special dividend of 9.00p per share.
under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of 6.
To re-elect James Will as a Director.
such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
To re-elect Hamish Buchan as a Director.
To re-elect Russell Napier as a Director.
All resolutions are ordinary resolutions except number 13 which is a special resolution.
To re-elect Ian Hunter as a Director.
To re-elect Jane Lewis as a Director.
R&H Fund Services Limited Company Secretary 11.
To re-elect Mick Brewis as a Director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
To authorise the Company, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and in substitution for any pre-existing such authority, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p Map image required each for cancellation, provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14,383,606 or, if less, 14.99% of the aggregate issued shares on the date this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
indd 66 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes For a proxy appointment or instruction made using the Arrangements have been made to enable all investors CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST to attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting.
message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Registered shareholders whose names appear on the Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the Companys register of members no later than 48 hours information required for such instruction, as described in excluding non-working days prior to the the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of whether commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an shall be entitled to attend, speak and vote or be amendment to the instruction given to a previously represented at the meeting in respect of the shares appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the transmitted so as to be received by the Companys register of members after the relevant deadline shall be registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC CREST disregarded in determining the rights of any person to ID number 3RA50 no later than 48 hours excluding attend and vote at the meeting.
non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the be taken to be the time as determined by the time meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application attend, speak and vote on his or her behalf.
If a Host from which the Companys registrar is able to shareholder wishes to appoint more than one proxy, retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner each proxy must be appointed to exercise rights prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of attaching to a different share or shares held by the instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should shareholder.
A proxy need not be a member of the be communicated to the appointee by other means.
Company but must attend the AGM to represent the relevant shareholder.
Shareholders may not use any CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST electronic address provided either in this notice or any sponsors or voting service provider s should note that related documents, including the proxy form, to Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited does not make communicate with the Company for any purpose other available special procedures in CREST for any particular than those expressly stated.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy A proxy may only be appointed using the procedure set Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
Proxy concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST forms and the original or duly certified copy of the personal member, or sponsored member, or has power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that it is signed or authenticated, must be lodged with the his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s Companys registrar not less than 48 hours excluding such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a non-working days before the meeting or, in the case of message is transmitted by means of the CREST system a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST not less than 24 hours, excluding non-working days, members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a member those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical from attending the meeting and voting in person.
limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation or proxies through the CREST electronic 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations proxy appointment service may do so by 2001. using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and by logging on to the website Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights www.
CREST personal members in the Company who appoints a person other than the or other CREST-sponsored members and those CREST Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he members who have appointed a voting service provider, and such third party comply with their respective should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and provider who will be able to take the appropriate action Transparency Rules.
On 3 January 2017, the Companys on their behalf.
issued share capital comprised 95,954,683 shares none 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
indd 67 05 01 2017 08:51 68 | 69 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued of which is held in treasury.
Each share carries the right The Directors letters of appointment are available for to one vote at a general meeting of the Company.
inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday.
The Accordingly, as at 3 January 2017, the total number of register of Directors interests maintained by the voting rights exercisable at the AGM was 95,954,683.
Company together with copies of Directors appointment letters will be available at the place of the Shareholders may require the Company to publish, on Annual General Meeting from 15 minutes prior to the its website, without payment, a statement, which is also commencement of the annual general meeting until the passed to the auditor, setting out any matter relating to conclusion thereof.
No Director has any service contract the audit of the Companys accounts, including the with the Company.
auditors report and the conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the meeting.
The Company will be STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA and SIPP required to do so once it has received such requests investors who invest in the Scottish Investment Trust are from either i members representing at least 5% of the welcome to attend and may vote by completing the total voting rights of the Company or ii at least 100 Form of Direction enclosed with this report.
This must be members who have rights to vote and hold shares in the returned to the Companys registrar no later than Company on which there has been paid up an average 10.30am on 25 January 2017.
Other investors whose sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must holdings are in nominee names and who wish to attend be made in writing and must state the members full and vote are advised to contact their nominee before name and address and be sent to the Companys 25 January 2017. registered office at 6 Albyn Place, Edinburgh, EH2 4NL.
The final and special dividends, if approved, The Company may not require the members requesting will be paid on 17 February 2017 to shareholders any such website publication to pay its expenses in registered at the close of business on 13 January 2017. complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
This report was sent to the address at present registered for communications.
Any change of address should be Further information regarding the AGM, including the notified to the Companys registrar or the savings information required by section 311A of the Companies scheme administrator as appropriate.
Act 2006 is available from www.
co. uk Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: a answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
