60 | 61 Investor Information How to invest Update on tax-efficient investing You can buy the Companys shares directly on ISAs the stockmarket through a stockbroker or a share The overall annual ISA investment limit for the dealing platform.
Your bank, lawyer, accountant 2016 17 tax year is 15,240. or other professional adviser may also be able Up to the full 15,240 can be invested in a stocks to help with this.
The Companys registrar, and shares ISA with one provider.
Alternatively, up Computershare Investor Services PLC, provides to the full 15,240 can be put into a cash ISA, or into a share dealing service which can be accessed both a stocks and shares ISA and a cash ISA, splitting on its website, www.
co. uk or by the 15,240 between the two as you wish.
The annual ISA investment limit for the 2017 18 tax year will be 20,000.
The Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, S. I. T. Savings If an ISA holder dies on, or after, 3 December 2014, Ltd, provides a number of low-cost, flexible investment the surviving spouse or civil partner can now inherit products which enable investors to acquire the their ISA tax benefits provided they were married Companys shares easily.
to, or in a civil partnership with, and living with STOCKPLAN their spouse civil partner at the time of their death.
Our investment trust savings scheme is one of the The surviving spouse civil partner is eligible for an most cost-effective available.
There is no initial plan allowance equal to the value of the ISA on the date charge, other than stamp duty and dealing spread, and of the holders death.
This allowance is in addition no annual charge.
It costs just 12.50 to sell some or to the surviving spouse civil partners annual ISA all of your holding.
STOCKPLAN allows you to invest allowance.
regularly minimum investment 25 per month and or with a lump sum minimum investment 250.
There Contact telephone numbers is no maximum investment limit and you can stop and Full contact details for the scheme administrators and restart investing at any time.
the Companys registrar can be found in the Useful Addresses section on page 63.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start Our investing for children plan is based on the STOCKPLAN and ISA investors wishing to: STOCKPLAN scheme.
It benefits from the same low give a change of address charges and flexibility and can be opened in one of instruct a sale two ways: either as a designated plan or, more formally, request a valuation as a bare trust.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start enables make an investment using their debit card family and friends to invest on behalf of a child to help change the amount of their monthly investment build savings for the future.
obtain help with accessing their STOCKPLAN and The SIT ISA ISA information online This is one of the lowest-charging investment trust make general queries about their account or scheme company stocks and shares ISAs on offer.
There is no can contact the scheme administrator, Halifax Share initial plan charge, other than stamp duty and dealing Dealing Limited HSDL, on: 0345 850 0181 or spread, nor are there closure or selling charges.
The 0113 267 1063. annual management fee of 0.6% of the value of the investment is currently capped at 30 VAT regardless Shareholders who hold share certificates of how much your SIT ISA investment grows or how can contact the registrar, Computershare Investor many years ISA allowances you have invested with the Services PLC, on: 0370 703 0195.
The SIT ISA Transfer SIT Savings can accept the transfer of existing stocks and shares ISAs from other qualifying managers into The SIT ISA at any time without losing the ISAs tax status.
SIT Savings can also accept the transfer of cash ISAs into The SIT ISA.
This would turn the cash ISA being transferred into a stocks and shares ISA.
SIT Savings makes no charge for transfers in.
However, the current ISA manager may charge for administering the transfer out.
indd 60 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Investor Information continued Dividends Accessing your account online The following dividends have been paid during ISA, STOCKPLAN and STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start 2015 16: designated scheme investors The above scheme investors may view their accounts Record Payment online by registering with .
Dividends Amount XD date date date This can be accessed through the links in the various Interim 2016 5.25p 15 June 17 June 20 July product sections on the Companys website, 2016 2016 2016 www.
co. uk online Final 2015 7.50p 31 December 4 January 4 February 2015 2016 2016 Please note, you will need your Share Dealing Personal Reference Number PRN to access this service.
If Special 2015 3.50p 31 December 4 January 4 February you do not have this, please contact the Companys 2015 2016 2016 scheme administrator, HSDL, on 0345 850 0181 or 0113 267 1063.
SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes The STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes provide automatic Shareholders who hold share certificates reinvestment of dividends.
However, they also allow Investors who hold share certificates can check their for dividends to be taken as income, if required.
holdings by registering on the Companys registrars STOCKPLAN and ISA holders should contact the website, www.
co. uk or through the scheme administrator, HSDL, on 0345 850 0181 or link in the investor relations section on the Companys 0113 267 1063 if they would like to change their website, www.
Please note that to access this facility, investors will need to quote the shareholder reference number Shareholders who hold share certificates shown on their share certificate.
Conversely, for shareholders who hold share certificates investors whose names are on the By registering for the Investor Centre facility on Companys share register and who are not in Computershares website, investors can also view the Companys savings schemes, dividends are details of all their holdings for which Computershare automatically paid as income.
However, it is easy to is registrar, as well as access additional facilities and arrange to have these dividends reinvested by joining documentation.
the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
co. uk for further Details are available from Computershare Investor information.
Services, the Companys registrar, on 0370 703 0195, or from the investor relations section on the Companys Electronic communications website, www.
co. uk Shareholders who hold share certificates Investors who hold share certificates i. e. who are not in Monitoring your investment the STOCKPLAN, ISA or SIPP schemes, nor in a brokers The Companys share price, together with performance nominee, may choose to receive the Companys information and product details, can be found on the interim and Annual Reports and other shareholder Companys website, www.
co. uk communications electronically instead of in paper form.
A number of financial websites, such as the FT, To register, simply visit the link in the investor www.
ft. com and the London Stock Exchange, relations section on the Companys website, www.
com carry share price www.
co. uk and provide email details.
In addition, the share price is published Investors will then be advised by email when an daily in most quality newspapers.
electronic communication is available to be accessed.
The Company publishes a daily NAV and a monthly factsheet on its website.
An Interim Report is issued in Shareholders meetings June of each year and the Annual Report is distributed Shareholders who hold share certificates to all investors in January.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: Investors who hold share certificates are entitled A Flying Start and ISA investors receive twice yearly to attend and vote at the AGM and other general statements of their holdings.
Notices of meetings and proxy cards are sent to their registered addresses.
indd 61 05 01 2017 08:51 62 | 63 Investor Information continued STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and The investors who invest in The Scottish Investment Trust SIT ISA are provided by S. I. T. Savings Limited which STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct SIPP investors who invest in the Company are entitled Authority FCA, 25 The North Colonnade, Canary to attend the AGM and other general meetings and Wharf, London E14 5HS.
vote by completing and returning the form of direction enclosed with this report.
The Common Reporting Standard With effect from 1 January 2016 all new shareholders The AGM will be held at the Royal College of Physicians outside of CREST will be sent a certification of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, on form for the collection of information required for 3 February 2017 at 10.30am.
compliance with The OECD Common Reporting Electronic voting Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Shareholders who hold share certificates Information The Common Reporting Standard.
Shareholders who hold share certificates are able to Further information can be found on HMRCs website: submit proxy votes electronically for the AGM.
uk government publications exchange-offollow the instructions on your proxy card.
Personal taxation Retail investors advised by IFAs Dividend tax allowance The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its From April 2016 dividend tax credits were replaced shares can be recommended by Independent Financial by an annual 5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend Advisors IFAs to retail private investors in accordance income across an individuals entire share portfolio.
with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA rules Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on their in relation to non-mainstream pooled investment dividend income at a rate dependent on their income producers.
tax bracket and personal circumstances.
The Company The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions will continue to provide registered shareholders with which apply to non-mainstream investment products a confirmation of the dividends paid and this should because they are shares in a UK-listed investment trust.
be included with any other dividend income received when calculating and reporting total dividend income Risk warning received.
It is the shareholders responsibility to include Past performance may not be repeated and is not all dividend income when calculating any tax liability.
The value of shares If you have any tax queries, please contact a Financial and the income from them can go down as well as Advisor.
up as a result of market and currency fluctuations.
Capital Gains Tax CGT You may not get back the amount you invest.
The When investors sell all or part of their holdings, they Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 11,100 per of borrowing money to invest in equities in the annum of such gains from all sources is exempt.
expectation that this will improve returns but should stockmarkets fall, such borrowings would magnify For investors who acquired shares prior to 31 March losses on these investments.
The Company can buy 1982, the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the back and cancel its own shares.
All other things price on that date of 41.472p.
being equal, this would have the effect of increasing Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for gearing.
Investment in The Scottish Investment Trust CGT should seek professional advice.
is intended as a long-term investment.
Tax rates and ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
reliefs can change in the future and the value of any tax Please remember that we are unable to offer individual advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
If you require such advice, you should consult your professional adviser.
indd 62 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Financial Calendar 2017 Dividend and interest payments Announcement of results Final and special for the financial year NAV Daily to 31 October 2016 17 February 2017 Interim figures June Interim July Final figures January Secured bonds 17 April, 17 October Annual Report & Accounts January Perpetual debenture stock 30 April, 31 October Annual General Meeting AGM 3 February 2017 Useful Addresses Registered Office The Association of Investment Companies 6 Albyn Place The Scottish Investment Trust is a member of The Edinburgh EH2 4NL Association of Investment Companies AIC which Registered no.
SC001651 publishes a number of useful fact sheets and email Telephone: 0131 225 7781 updates for investors interested in investment trust Website: www.
co. uk The AIC Company Secretary 9th Floor R&H Fund Services Limited 24 Chiswell Street 20 Forth Street London EC1Y 4YY Edinburgh EH1 3LH Telephone: 0207 282 5555 Website: www.
co. uk Depositary Northern Trust Global Services Limited 50 Bank Street For valuations and other details of your investment or to Canary Wharf notify a change of address please contact the following: London E14 5NT Shareholders who hold share certificates: Custodian Computershare Investor Services PLC The Northern Trust Company The Pavilions 50 Bank Street Bridgwater Road Canary Wharf Bristol BS99 6ZZ London E14 5NT Helpline: 0370 703 0195 Website: www.
co. uk Auditor Deloitte LLP STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start Saltire Court and The SIT ISA investors: 20 Castle Terrace SIT Schemes Edinburgh EH1 2DB Halifax Share Dealing Limited Lovell Park Road Actuaries Leeds LS1 1NS Punter Southall & Co Helpline: 0345 850 0181 or 0113 267 1063 7 Castle Street Website: www.
co. uk online Edinburgh EH2 3AH 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
