Shareholder Information The Scottish Mortgage Investor Forum The Scottish Mortgage Investor Forum offers existing and prospective Scottish Mortgage shareholders the chance to hear presentations from joint managers James Anderson and Tom Slater.
At this evening event James and Tom will be discussing their investment enthusiasms, including why they believe that several industries are in the midst of structural change and why these advances are in general being driven by just a handful of companies.
After the presentations attendees will have the opportunity to put their questions to the speakers.
It is a fascinating opportunity to find out more about the UKs largest investment trust.
The Scottish Mortgage Investor Forum will take place at 6.00pm on Wednesday 22 June 2016 at the Andaz Hotel, 40 Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN.
Scottish Mortgage Investor Forum Blue Sky Thinking for Tomorrows World Please register for this event at www.
Glossary of Terms on the shareholders assets is called gearing.
If the Companys Total Assets assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more Total assets less current liabilities, before deduction of all because the debt remains the same.
But if the value of the borrowings.
Companys assets falls, the situation is reversed.
Gearing can Net Asset Value therefore enhance performance in rising markets but can Net Asset Value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities adversely impact performance in falling markets.
The NAV per share is calculated by Gearing represents borrowings at par less cash and cash dividing this amount by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
equivalents including any outstanding trade or foreign exchange settlements expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Asset Value at Fair Borrowings are valued at an estimate of their market worth.
Potential gearing is the Companys borrowings expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Asset Value at Book Equity gearing is the Companys borrowings adjusted for cash Borrowings are valued at adjusted net issue proceeds.
and bonds expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Discount Premium Leverage As stockmarkets and share prices vary, an investment trusts For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers share price is rarely the same as its NAV.
When the share price is AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the lower than the NAV per share it is said to be trading at a discount.
Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be percentage of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without Total Return taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under The total return is the return to shareholders after reinvesting the the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the net dividend on the date that the share price goes xd.
deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and Ongoing Charges Ratio netting positions are offset against each other.
The total expenses excluding borrowing costs incurred by the Active Share Company as a percentage of the average net asset value with Active share, a measure of how actively a portfolio is managed, is debt at fair value.
the percentage of the portfolio that differs from its comparative Gearing index.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 the percentage of At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any other public the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative index.
An active company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index and an active additional investments for its portfolio.
The effect of the borrowing share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the index.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 61 Directors Alternative Investment Registrar Fund Managers, Chairman: Computershare Investor Services PLC Secretaries and JPHS Scott FCII FCSI DL The Pavilions Registered Office Bridgwater Road Baillie Gifford & Co Limited LJ Dowley FCA Bristol Calton Square Professor JA Kay CBE FBA FRSE BS99 6ZZ 1 Greenside Row Professor PH Maxwell DPhil FRCP FMedSci Tel: 0370 707 1300 Edinburgh FC McBain ACA EH1 3AN WG McQueen CA FCIBS Tel: 0131 275 2000 Dr P Subacchi www.
com Company Broker Independent Auditor Depositary Cenkos Securities plc KPMG LLP BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard Saltire Court BNY Mellon Centre London 20 Castle Terrace 160 Queen Victoria Street EC2R 7AS Edinburgh London EH1 2EG EC4V 4LA www.
