Directors' Report Directors' Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Report and financial statements in accordance with accounting records that are sufficient to show and applicable law and regulations.
explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial of the Company and enable them to ensure that the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the financial statements comply with the Companies Act Directors are required to prepare the Group financial 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the statements in accordance with International Financial assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have other irregularities.
elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under integrity of the corporate and financial information company law the Directors must not approve the included on the Companys website.
Legislation in accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true the United Kingdom governing the preparation and and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and dissemination of financial statements may differ from of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, Responsibility statement the Directors are required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply 1.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance them consistently: with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss reasonable and prudent: of the Company and the undertakings included in state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 the consolidation taken as a whole.
Reduced Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 2.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the explained in the financial statements: and development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings prepare the financial statements on the going included in the consolidation taken as a whole, concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume together with a description of the principal risks that the Company will continue in business.
and uncertainties that they face.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 3.
The Annual Report and financial statements, taken Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable properly select and apply accounting policies: and provide the information necessary for present information, including accounting policies, shareholders to assess the Companys in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, performance, business model and strategy.
comparable and understandable information: By order of the Board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn make an assessment of the Companys ability to Group Chief Group Chief continue as a going concern.
Executive Financial Officer 22 February 2017 132 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Financial Statements 134 Independent Auditors Report 139 Consolidated Income Statement 140 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 141 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 142 Consolidated Balance Sheet 143 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 144 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 208 Company Balance Sheet 209 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 214 Appendix: List of Subsidiaries 217 Appendix: Supplementary Information 218 Shareholder Information 219 Useful Contacts 133
