Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Serco Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Serco operates.
All amounts have been rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds, foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These consolidated financial statements on pages 139 to 217 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted for use in the European Union IFRS and therefore comply with the requirements set out in Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except as stated below.
Prior year restatement: Change in accounting policy In order to provide more relevant information about the impact of the underlying transactions of trading operations, the accounting policy regarding the classification of foreign exchange movements on investment and financing arrangements has been changed.
The new policy is to include foreign exchange movements on investment and financing arrangements within investment revenue or finance costs as relevant.
Such transactions include foreign exchange movements on non Sterling cash and financing arrangements, related derivative financial instruments and any income or costs associated with such balances.
As a result of this change in accounting policy, the prior year income statement and cash flow statement have been restated, together with the Net Debt definition applied in note 28 which has been changed to include derivative financial instruments that relate to other components of Net Debt.
No restatement is required to the balance sheet as a result of the change in policy.
The impact on the relevant line items in the consolidated financial statements and Net Debt for the year ended 31December 2015 is as follows: 2015 as previously stated Adjustment 2015 as restated Consolidated income statement m m m General and administrative expenses 253.9 0.1 254.0 Finance costs 39.0 0.1 38.9 2015 as previously stated Adjustment 2015 as restated Consolidated cash flow statement m m m Net cash outflow from operating activities 0.1 19.3 19.4 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 0.6 19.3 18.7 At 31 December 2015 as previously At 31 December stated Adjustment 2015 as restated Analysis of Net Debt m m m Cash and cash equivalents 323.6 323.6 Loan receivables 19.9 19.9 Loans payable 381.9 381.9 Obligations under finance leases 43.8 43.8 Derivatives relating to Net Debt 14.6 14.6 82.2 14.6 67.6 144 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, 2014: namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity, taking into account financial forecasts.
In order to satisfy themselves that they have adequate resources for the future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under our debt covenants, and our ability to generate cash from trading activities.
The Groups current principal debt facilities at the year end comprised a 480m revolving credit facility, and 290m of US private placement notes.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had 770m of committed credit facilities and committed headroom of 647m.
In undertaking this review the Directors have considered the business plans which provide financial projections for the foreseeable future.
For the purposes of this review, we consider that to be the period ending 30 June 2018.
The Directors have also reviewed the principal risks considered on pages 16 to 23 of the Strategic Report and taken account of the results of sensitivity testing.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when the Company: i has the power over the investee: ii is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and iii has the ability to use its power to affect the returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non controlling interests represent the portion of profits or losses and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separate from equity of shareholders of Serco Group plc.
Adoption of new and revised standards None of the changes to IFRS that became effective in the current reporting have had a significant impact on the Groups financialstatements.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following changes to IFRS have not been applied in these financial statements but could potentially have a significant impact: i IFRS 9 Financial Instruments has been endorsed by the EU and will be effective from 1 January 2018.
This standard replaces IAS 39 and introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial instruments and puts in place a new hedge accounting model that is designed to be more closely aligned with how entities undertake risk management activities when hedging financial and non-financial risk exposures.
IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosure of financial instruments and the total value of financial instruments at 31December 2016 was 413.9m of assets 2015: 545.9m and 413.4m of liabilities 2015: 521.7m, further detail of which can be found in note 32.
However, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of this standard until a detailed review has been completed.
The quantitative impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 will be disclosed prior to the adoption of this new standard.
145 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied continued ii IFRS 15 Revenue From Contracts With Customers has been endorsed by the EU and will be effective from 1 January 2018.
This new standard supersedes: IAS 11 Construction contracts: IAS 18 Revenue: IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes: IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate: IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers: and SIC-31 Revenue Barter transactions involving advertising services.
The new standard is intended to bring greater transparency and comparability to financial reporting.
IFRS 15 could result in a delay of revenues and profits over those previously recognised, in particular with respect of percentage to completion accounting and where elements of revenues associated with transition activities also referred to as 'phase in' have been recognised in the early stages of contracts.
A project to assess the full impact of the new standard is in its final stages but it is not possible to provide the quantum of any such impact at this time.
It is not anticipated that the standard will be adopted early, which would be permitted on endorsement by the EU.
Under the transition rules IFRS 15 will be applied retrospectively to the prior period in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, subject to the following expedients: for contracts that have completed prior to 1 January 2018 and that begin and end within the same annual reporting period have not been restated: for contracts that have completed prior to 1 January 2018 the transaction price at the date the contract was completed has been applied for contracts that have variable consideration: and the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when that amount is expected to be recognised as revenue has not been disclosed for the prior period.
The cumulative effect of initially applying the standard will be shown as an adjustment to brought forward retained earnings as at 1January 2017. iii IFRS 16 Leases is pending EU endorsement, which is expected prior to the effective date of 1 January 2019.
The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and has been introduced in order to improve the comparability of financial statements through developing an approach that is more consistent with the conceptual framework definitions of assets and liabilities.
The key change will be in respect of leases currently classified as operating leases.
Under the new standard leases will be recognised on the balance sheet as liabilities with corresponding assets being created, grossing up the balance sheet but with no net effect on net assets at the start of the lease.
The income statement impact will be a new interest charge arising from the rate implicit in the liability and as currently the full impact is a charge to operating profit, the change will result in an improvement to operating results.
We have not quantified the likely impact of the new standard, the transition approach to be taken or concluded whether it will be adopted early, which is allowed from the date IFRS 15 is adopted.
The quantitative impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 will be disclosed prior to the adoption of this new standard.
Fair value Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or is estimated using another valuation technique.
There are certain transactions in these financial statements which are similar to fair value, but are determined by the treatment set out in their respective standards.
These are share based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2 Share based Payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17 Leases, or the calculation of net realisable value under IAS 2 Inventories or value in use under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts due for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Calculating the fair value of revenue typically does not require a high level of judgement, the exceptions to this are the following areas: Uncontracted variations or claims.
Where work has been performed outside of the normal contracting framework at the request of the customer or a claim has been made for work performed but is in dispute, judgement is required in order to determine whether there is sufficient certainty that the Group will be financially compensated.
Revenue is only recognised to the extent that they have been orally agreed by the customer or are virtually certain of being received and revenue recognised in this manner is not considered to be significant to the Groups results.
When returns are directly linked to performance, through cost savings or other customer driven key performance indicators over a period of time an estimate is made of the likelihood of achieving the necessary level of performance when the period covers a financial year end.
Revenue is only recognised when we can be reasonably certain of achieving the required level of performance and such payment mechanisms do not represent a significant proportion of annual revenue.
Revenue and profit is recognised for certain long-term project based contracts based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
The assessment of the stage of completion requires the exercise of judgement and is measured by the proportion of costs incurred compared to the estimated whole life contract costs, except where whole life contract costs exceed the contract value, in which case the excess is expensed immediately.
While each of these areas requires a high level of judgement, only long-term contract accounting could have a significant impact on the Groups financial results or position.
However, the only revenues associated with these contracts are earned on loss making contracts with onerous loss provisions and as a result we do not identify this as a separate item for disclosure in note 3.
146 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Revenue recognition: Repeat service based contracts Revenue on repeat service based contracts is recognised as services are provided in line with the transfer of control to the customer.
Where initial contract costs phase in costs are paid for by the customer, revenue is recognised when the related costs are incurred.
Revenue recognition: Long-term project based contracts The Group has a limited number of long-term contracts for the provision of complex, project-based services.
Where the outcome of such long-term project based contracts can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
This is normally measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract costs, but where a more accurate basis is available that alternative methodology is used.
Contract costs include a rational allocation of overheads.
Where the outcome of a long-term project based contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs will be recovered.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Such amounts are not discounted.
Revenue recognition: Other Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right to receive payment has been established.
Bid costs and phase in costs All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of costs is virtually certain, being the point at which the Group has at least reached preferred bidder status.
Bid costs incurred after this point are then capitalised within trade and other receivables.
On contract award these bid costs are amortised through the income statement over the contract period by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Bid costs are only capitalised to the extent that it is expected that the related contract will generate sufficient future economic benefits to at least offset the amortisation charge.
Phase in costs that are incremental and directly related to the initial set up of contracts are capitalised within trade and other receivables and are recognised on a straight line basis over the life of the contract, except where they are specifically reimbursed as part of the terms of the contract when they are recognised in line with the associated revenue.
Determining whether bid and phase in costs are recoverable involves a high level of judgement as it requires a forecast to be prepared for the expected future profitability of the contract, taking into account the likely future costs and revenues associated with the services not yet performed.
The level of bid and phase in costs can be seen in note 23.
Operating profit Operating profit is not a measure defined by IFRS and the Group considers this to include the profits and losses from continuing operations prior to corporation tax, interest revenue and finance costs.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income SOCI.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised directly within equity in the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
147 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments which is subject to a maximum of one year.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except where a different treatment is mandated by another standard.
Assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is only met when the sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition and the Group expects the sale to be completed within one year.
Amounts classified as held for sale are measured as the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Assessing whether the criteria are met requires judgement, in particular with regards to whether the subject of the assessment is in a suitable condition for sale.
In addition, the calculation of the value of any goodwill to be allocated to the sale is dependent on an assessment of the likely sales proceeds and the likely structure of the transaction.
Investments in joint ventures and associates A joint venture is an arrangement whereby the owning parties have joint control and rights over the net assets of the arrangement.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are incorporated using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associate or joint venture.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is included within the carrying value amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where the Group entity transacts with a joint venture, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the arrangement.
Determining whether joint control exists requires a level of judgement, based upon specific facts and circumstances which exist at the year end.
Details of the unconsolidated joint ventures are provided in notes 6 and 7.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are also incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Goodwill Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is recognised as an intangible asset when control is achieved.
Negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value measurements are based on provisional estimates and may be subject to amendment within one year of the acquisition, resulting in an adjustment to goodwill.
Goodwill itself does not generate independent cash flows and therefore, in order to perform required tests for impairment, it is allocated at inception to the specific cash generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs which are expected to benefit from the acquisition.
On the disposal of a business which includes all or part of a CGU, any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Where part of a CGU with goodwill is sold, the attributable amount is calculated based on the future discounted cash flows leaving the Group as a proportion of the total CGU future discounted cash flows.
The fair values associated with material business combinations are valued by external advisers and any amount of consideration which is contingent in nature is evaluated at the end of each reporting period, based on internalforecasts.
148 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other intangible assets Material intangible assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date of completion.
Customer relationships can arise on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represent the incremental value expected to be gained as a result of existing contracts in the purchased business.
These assets are amortised over the average length of the related contracts.
Licences comprise premiums paid for the acquisition of licences, while franchises represent costs incurred in obtaining franchise rights arising on the acquisition of franchises.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the respective licence or franchise.
Software and IT represent computer systems and processes used by the Group in order to generate future economic value through normal business operations.
The underlying assets are amortised over the period from which the Group expects to benefit, which is typically between three to eight years.
Development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of certain conditions are met, with all research costs and other development expenditure being expensed when incurred.
The period of expected benefit, and therefore period of amortisation, is typically between three and eight years.
The capitalisation criteria are as follows: an asset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Group intends to use or sell: the finalisation of the asset is technically feasible and the Group has adequate resources to complete its development for use or sale: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Property, plant and equipment Assets held for use in the rendering of services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed except where this is not material.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis at rates designed to reduce the assets to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
The principal annual rates used are: Freehold buildings 2.5% Short leasehold assets The higher of 10% or the rate produced by the lease term Machinery 15% 20% Motor vehicles 10% 50% Furniture 10% Office equipment 20% 33% Leased equipment The higher of the rate produced by the lease term or useful life The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Given that there is limited history of material gains or losses on disposal of fixed assets, the level of judgement involved in determining the depreciation rates is not considered to be significant.
149 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Asset impairment The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets including goodwill at each reporting period, together with any other assets under the scope of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in order to assess whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
As the impairment of assets has been identified as both a key source of estimation uncertainty and a critical accounting judgement, further details around the specific judgements and estimates can be seen in note 3.
If any indication of impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine if there is any impairment loss.
Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, irrespective of whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value with reference to pre-tax discount rates that reflect the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount is estimated to be less than the carrying amount of the asset, the carrying amount is impaired to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the CGU on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Impairment losses and reversals are recognised immediately within administrative expenses within the income statement unless it is considered to be an exceptional item.
Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
Both current and past service costs are the amounts recognised in the income statement, reflecting the expense associated with the individuals.
Current service cost represents the increase in the present value of the scheme liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the current period.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested.
Gains and losses on curtailments or settlements are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the curtailment or settlement occurs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds which is only recognised to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to receive it and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
To the extent that an economic benefit is available as a reduction in future contributions and there is a minimum funding requirement required of the Group, the economic benefit available as a reduction in contributions is calculated as the present value of the estimated future service cost in each year, less the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual and benefits in that year.
Calculation of the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of defined benefit pension schemes requires a high level of judgement, as further explained in note 3.
Defined benefit obligations arising from contractual obligations Where the Group takes on a contract and assumes the obligation to contribute variable amounts to the defined benefit pension scheme throughout the period of the contract, the Groups share of the defined benefit obligation less its share of the pension scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contract is recognised as a liability at the start of the contract with a corresponding amount being recognised as an intangible asset.
The intangible asset, which reflects the Groups right to manage and operate the contract, is amortised over the contract period.
The Groups share of the scheme assets and liabilities is calculated by reducing the scheme assets and liabilities by a franchise adjustment.
The franchise adjustment represents the estimated amount of scheme deficit that will be funded outside the contract period.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of pension obligations are recognised within Other Comprehensive Income.
150 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange risk and price risk, including currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity future contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 32.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of firm commitments cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Both at the inception of the hedge and on a periodic basis, the Group assesses whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Derivatives, which mature within 12 months, are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and movements in the hedging and translation reserve in equity are detailed in the SOCI and described in note 32.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group fide-designates the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
151 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Tax The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which these items can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority where the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Share based payment Where the fair value of share options requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is measured by use of Binomial Lattice, Black Scholes or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme, as set out in note 37.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to the option.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise service spares, parts awaiting installation and work in progress for projects undertaken for customers where payment is received on completion.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at cost being the same as fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less any provision for impairment, to ensure that amounts recognised represent the recoverable amount.
A provision for impairment arises where there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due, which is achieved by creating an allowance for doubtful debts recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
Determining whether a trade receivable is impaired requires judgement to be applied based on the information available at each reporting date.
Key indicators of impairment include disputes with customers over commercial positions, or where debtors have significant financial difficulties such as historic default of payments or information that suggests bankruptcy or financial reorganisation are a reasonable possibility.
The majority of contracts entered into by the Group are with government organisations or are blue chip private sector companies and therefore historic levels of default are relatively low and as a result the risks associated with this judgement are not considered to be significant.
When a trade receivable is expected to be uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for doubtful debts.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or written off are credited against administrative expenses.
152 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
This definition is also used for the consolidated cash flow statement.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Total rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Loans Loans are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest-rate method.
Accrued interest is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Loans are described as non recourse loans and classified as such only if no Group company other than the relevant borrower has an obligation, under a guarantee or other arrangement, to repay the debt.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation to make a cash outflow as a result of a past event.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date when settlement is considered to be likely.
Onerous contract provisions OCPs arise when the unavoidable costs of meeting contractual obligations exceed the remuneration expected to be received.
Unavoidable costs include total contract costs together with a rational allocation of shared costs that can be directly linked to fulfilling contractual obligations which have been systematically allocated to OCPs on the basis of key cost drivers except where this is impracticable, where contract revenue is used as a proxy to activity.
The provision is calculated as the lower of the termination costs payable for an early exit and the expected net cost over the remaining contract period.
Where a customer has an option to extend a contract and it is likely that such an extension will be made, the expected net cost arising during the extension period, is included within the calculation.
However, where a profit can be reasonably expected in the extension period, no credit is taken on the basis that such profits are uncertain given the potential for the customer to either not extend or offer an extension under lower pricing terms.
Further details of the judgements can be seen in note 3.
Net investments in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in foreign operations are initially recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
Dividends payable Dividends are recorded in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Segmental information Segmental information is based on internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The CODM is considered to be the Board of Directors as a body.
Segmental revenue is analysed on an external basis.
Inter-segment revenue is not presented as it is not significant in the context of revenue as a whole.
Net finance costs are not presented for each operating segment as they are reviewed on a consolidated basis by the CODM.
Specific corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables excluding corporation tax recoverable and any retirement benefit asset.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and retirement benefit obligations.
153 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
As described below, many of these areas of judgement also involve a high level of estimation uncertainty.
Prior year restatement: Change in accounting policy The accounting policy regarding the classification of foreign exchange movements in relation to investment and financing arrangements was changed in the year.
Judgement was applied in reaching the conclusion that it provides more relevant financial results to exclude these amounts from the underlying transactions of trading operations.
Further details are provided in note 2.
Use of Alternative Performance Measures: Operating profit before exceptional items IAS 1 requires material items to be disclosed separately in a way that enables users to assess the quality of a companys profitability.
In practice, these are commonly referred to as exceptional items, but this is not a concept defined by IFRS and therefore there is a level of judgement involved in arriving at an Alternative Performance Measure which excludes such exceptional items.
We consider items which are material, non-recurring and outside of the normal operating practice of the company to be suitable for separate presentation.
Further details can be seen in note 11.
The segmental analysis of continuing operations in note 5 includes the additional performance measure of Trading Profit on continuing operations which is reconciled to reported operating profit in that note.
The Group uses Trading Profit as an alternative measure to reported operating profit by making several adjustments.
Firstly, Trading Profit excludes exceptional items, being those we consider material, non-recurring and outside of the normal operating practice of the company to be suitable of separate presentation and detailed explanation.
Secondly, amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisitions are excluded, because these charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of assets that, in the case of items such as customer relationships, would not be capitalised in normal operating practice.
The CODM reviews the segmental analysis for continuing operations together with discontinued operations.
Provisions for onerous contracts Determining whether provisions are required for loss making contracts requires significant judgements to be made regarding the ability of the company to maintain or improve operational performance.
Judgements can also be made regarding the outcome of matters dependent on the behaviour of the customer in question or other parties involved in delivering the contract.
The level of uncertainty in the estimates made, either in determining whether a provision is required, or in the calculation of a provision booked, is linked to the complexity of the underlying contract and the form of service delivery.
In the current year material revisions have been made to historic provisions, which have led to a charge to contract provisions of 56.6m and releases of 65.5m.
All of these revisions have resulted from triggering events in the current year, either through changes in contractual positions or changes in circumstances which could not have been reasonably foreseen at the previous balance sheet date.
To mitigate the level of uncertainty in making these estimates Management regularly compares actual performance of the contracts against previous forecasts and considers whether there have been any changes to significant judgements.
A detailed bottom up review of the provisions is performed as part of the Groups formal annual budgeting process.
The individual provisions are discounted where the impact is assessed to be material.
Discount rates used are calculated based on the estimated risk free rate of interest for the region in which the provision is located and matched against the ageing profile of the provision.
Rates applied are in the range of 1.16% and 3.30%.
Impairment of assets Identifying whether there are indicators of impairment for assets involves a high level of judgement and a good understanding of the drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period an assessment is performed in order to determine whether there are any such indicators, which involves considering the performance of our business and any significant changes to the markets in which we operate.
The total value of assets which are covered by this assessment process after previous impairments is 1,340.9m, which is the maximum exposure related to this judgement.
We mitigate the risk associated with this judgement by putting in place processes and guidance for the finance community and internal review procedures.
Determining whether assets with impairment indicators require an actual impairment involves an estimation of the expected value in use of the asset or CGU to which the asset relates.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of future cash flows and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, both of which involve considerable judgement.
The future cash flows are derived from approved forecasts, with the key assumptions being revenue growth, margins and cash conversion rates.
Discount rates are calculated with reference to the specific risks associated with the assets and are based on advice provided by external experts.
Our calculation of discount rates are performed based on a risk free rate of interest appropriate to the geographic location of the cash flows related to the asset being tested, which is subsequently adjusted to factor in local market risks and risks specific to Serco and the asset itself.
Discount rates used for internal purposes are post tax rates, however for the purpose of impairment testing in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets we calculate a pre tax rate based on post tax targets.
A key area of focus in recent years has been in the impairment testing of goodwill as a result of the pressure on the results of the Group.
While no further impairment of pre existing goodwill was noted in 2016, an impairment charge of 17.8m did arise following the acquisition of a business in the year.
Further details are provided in note 19.
154 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Deferred tax Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised.
Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits.
As at the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 893.5m 2015: 890.1m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 69.1m 2015: 59.9m of such losses of which 58.8m net 10.0m relates to losses incurred in the UK and 10.3m net 0.3m which relates to other jurisdictions.
Recognition has been based on forecast future taxable profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses net 147.0m as it is not probable that there will be future taxable profits available.
Further details on taxes are disclosed in note 17.
Current tax Liabilities for tax contingencies require management judgement and estimates in respect of tax audits and also tax exposures in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences that arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
Key judgement areas include the correct allocation of profits and losses between the countries in which we operate and the pricing of intercompany services.
Where management conclude that a tax position is uncertain, a current tax liability is held for anticipated taxes that are considered probable based on the current information available.
These liabilities can be built up over a long period of time but the ultimate resolution of tax exposures usually occurs at a point in time, and given the inherent uncertainties in assessing the outcomes of these exposures, these estimates are prone to change in future periods.
It is not currently possible to estimate the timing of potential cash outflows, but on resolution, to the extent this differs from the liability held, this will be reflected through the tax charge credit for that year.
Each potential liability and contingency is revisited on an annual basis and adjusted to reflect any changes in positions taken by the company, local tax audits, the expiry of the statute of limitations following the passage of time and any change in the broader tax environment.
The total current tax liability at December 2016 was 25.9m 2015: 14.2m.
On the basis of the currently available information, the Group does not anticipate a material change to the estimated liability in the coming year.
Retirement benefit obligations Identifying whether the Group has a retirement benefit obligation as a result of contractual arrangements entered into requires a level of judgement, largely driven by the legal position held between the Group, the customer and the relevant pension scheme.
The Groups retirement benefit obligations and other pension scheme arrangements are covered in note 33.
The calculation of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, mortality rates, inflation rates and future contribution rates see note 33.
The value of net retirement benefit obligations at the balance sheet date is an asset of 132.7m 2015: 115.6m.
Details of the impact of changes in assumptions relating to retirement benefit obligations are disclosed in note 33.
In accounting for the defined benefit schemes, the Group has applied the following principles: Asset recognised for Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS is based on the assumption that the full surplus will ultimately be available to the Group as a future refund of surplus.
No foreign exchange item is shown in the disclosures as the non UK liabilities are not material.
No pension assets are invested in the Groups own financial instruments or property.
155 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Discontinued operations The Global Services division, representing UK onshore and offshore private sector BPO operations, was classified as a discontinued operation in 2015.
The completion of the sale of the majority of the offshore private sector BPO business occurred on 31 December 2015.
Disposal of one of the two remaining elements of the offshore business was completed in March 2016 and the final element completed in December 2016.
The UK onshore private sector BPO businesses have been sold, or have been exited early with the exception of one business where the sale process is ongoing and completion is expected within the next twelve months.
The results of the discontinued operations were as follows: 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December m m Revenue 36.8 337.6 Expenses 40.1 311.1 Operating loss profit before exceptional items 3.3 26.5 Exceptional loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 2.8 5.4 Other exceptional operating items 11.4 83.0 Operating loss 17.5 51.1 Investment revenue 2.1 Finance costs 1.2 Exceptional finance costs 0.4 Loss before tax 17.9 50.2 Tax charge on loss before exceptional items 0.1 18.7 Tax credit on exceptional items 2.7 Net loss attributable to discontinued operations presented in the income statement 18.0 66.2 Attributable to: Equity owners of the Company 18.1 66.0 Non controlling interests 0.1 0.2 Included above are items classified as exceptional as they are considered to be material, non recurring and outside of the normal course of business.
These are summarised as follows: 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December m m Exceptional items arising on discontinued operations Exceptional loss profit on disposal 2.8 5.4 Other exceptional operating items Restructuring costs 1.1 2.2 Impairment of goodwill 65.9 Movements in indemnities provided on business disposals 13.7 Movement in the fair value of assets transferred to held for sale 3.4 14.9 Other exceptional operating items 11.4 83.0 Exceptional operating items arising on discontinued operations 14.2 77.6 156 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements In 2016 a charge of 1.1m 2015: 2.2m has arisen in discontinued operations in relation to the restructuring programme resulting from the Strategy Review.
This includes redundancy payments, provisions and other charges relating to the exit of the UK private sector BPO business, external advisory fees and other incremental costs.
During 2015, an impairment test of the Global Services business was conducted based on a level 3 fair value measurement, with reference to offers received less costs of disposal.
The impairment testing identified a non cash exceptional impairment of goodwill relating to discontinued operations of 65.9m.
A charge of 13.7m has arisen in 2016 in relation to the movement in the value of indemnities provided on business disposals made in previous years.
This relates to changes in exchange rates where indemnities were provided in foreign currencies and increases to provisions for interest and penalties on any indemnities.
The value of assets held for sale increased by 3.4m in 2016, reflecting the changing estimate of the likely proceeds and movements of the assets held for sale since the prior balance sheet date.
In 2015 the held for sale assets were impaired by 14.9m.
A charge of 0.4m was incurred as a result of early payments to the US Private Placement USPP Noteholders following the disposal of the offshore private sector BPO business.
These charges are treated as exceptional finance costs as they are directly linked to the restructuring resulting from the Strategy Review.
Similar charges arose in 2015 which, together with the costs related to the preservation of the Groups existing finance facilities, totalled 32.8m.
The net assets at the date of disposal of discontinued operations were: Offshore UK onshore m m Goodwill 8.0 Property, plant and equipment 1.0 Trade and other receivables 3.8 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents 5.6 Trade and other payables 4.2 1.2 Minority interest disposed 0.5 Net assets disposed 13.7 3.7 The loss on disposal of discontinued operations is calculated as follows: Offshore UK onshore Total m m m Consideration 15.2 3.5 18.7 Less: Net assets disposed 13.7 3.7 17.4 Disposal related costs 0.5 1.4 1.9 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations prior to reserve recycling 1.0 1.6 0.6 Recycling of gains on translation of foreign operations 2.2 2.2 Exceptional loss on disposal 1.2 1.6 2.8 157 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Discontinued operations continued The net cash inflow arising on disposal of discontinued operations and the impact on Net Debt is as follows: Offshore UK onshore Total m m m Cash consideration 15.2 2.0 17.2 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed 5.6 5.6 Disposal related costs 0.5 1.4 1.9 Net cash flow on disposal and movement in Net Debt 9.1 0.6 9.7 The net cash flows resulting from the discontinued operations were as follows: 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December m m Net cash inflow from operating activities before exceptional items 5.5 67.7 Exceptional items 1.5 Net cash inflow from operating activities 5.5 66.2 Net cash inflow from investing activities 12.5 93.5 Net cash outflow from financing activities 11.4 26.5 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents attributable to discontinued operations 6.6 133.2 5.
Segmental information The Groups operating segments reflecting the information reported to the Board in 2016 under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are as set out below.
Reportable segments Operating segments UK Central Government Services for sectors including Defence, Justice & Immigration and Transport delivered to UK Government and devolved authorities: UK & Europe Local Services for sectors including Health and Citizen Services delivered to UK & European & Regional Government public sector customers: AsPac Services for sectors including Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, Health and Citizen Services in the Asia Pacific region including Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong: Middle East Services for sectors including Defence, Transport and Health in the Middle East region: Americas Services for sectors including Defence, Transport and Citizen Services delivered to US federal and civilian agencies, selected state and municipal governments and the Canadian Government: and Corporate Central and head office costs.
Each operating segment is focused on a narrow group of customers in a specific geographic region and is run by a local management team which report directly to the CODM on a regular basis.
As a result of this focus, the sectors in each region have similar economic characteristics and are aggregated at the operating segment level in these financial statements.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
158 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Geographic information Non-current Non-current Revenue assets Revenue assets 2016 2016 2015 2015 Year ended 31 December m m m m United Kingdom 1,244.9 444.7 1,529.2 259.2 United States 632.9 309.1 632.0 347.7 Australia 593.1 146.0 514.7 125.5 Middle East 324.8 19.7 291.3 16.2 Other countries 215.3 20.4 209.8 34.0 Total 3,011.0 939.9 3,177.0 782.6 Non-current assets exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets and loans to joint ventures and associates and include held for sale assets.
There are no held for sale items in 2016.
2015 includes held for sale assets of 1.2m Revenues from external customers are attributed to individual countries on the basis of the location of the customer.
Information about major customers The Group has three major governmental customers which each represent more than 10% of Group revenues.
The customers revenues were 1,233.7m for the UK Government across the UK Central Government and UK & Europe Local & Regional Government segments, 623.1m for the US Government within the Americas segment, and 581.4m for the Australian Government within the AsPac segment.
In 2015 the Group had two major governmental customers which each represented more than 10% of Group revenues.
The customers revenues were 1,480.9m for the UK Government across the UK Central Government and UK & Europe Local & Regional Government segments, and 558.5m for the US Government within the Americas segment.
The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue, results, assets and liabilities by reportable segment: CG LRG AsPac Middle East Americas Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m m m m m Revenue 678.6 696.5 619.7 324.8 691.4 3,011.0 Result Trading profit loss from continuing operations 94.9 10.4 34.2 18.8 6.4 40.3 103.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 0.3 2.0 2.8 5.1 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 94.6 10.4 32.2 18.8 3.6 40.3 98.5 Exceptional profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.1 4.5 0.4 1.9 2.9 Other exceptional operating items 11.1 14.8 0.9 32.4 59.2 Operating profit loss 83.4 20.7 31.7 18.8 3.6 74.6 42.2 Investment revenue 9.3 Finance costs 21.9 Profit before tax 29.6 Tax charge 15.8 Tax on exceptional items 3.1 Profit for the year from continuing operations 16.9 159 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued CG LRG AsPac Middle East Americas Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m m m m m Supplementary information Share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and tax 31.3 2.0 0.1 33.4 Depreciation of plant, property and equipment 2.1 12.9 4.5 0.9 3.1 1.3 24.8 Impairment of plant, property and equipment 0.3 0.4 0.7 Total depreciation and impairment of plant, property and equipment 2.4 12.9 4.9 0.9 3.1 1.3 25.5 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 0.3 1.3 2.8 4.4 Impairment and write down of intangible assets arising on acquisition 0.7 0.7 Amortisation of other intangible assets 0.1 0.5 3.3 0.7 1.5 15.7 21.8 Total amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 0.4 0.5 5.3 0.7 4.3 15.7 26.9 Segment assets Interests in joint ventures and associates 12.3 1.7 0.4 14.4 Other segment assets 168.7 298.3 252.1 108.7 428.8 228.6 1,485.2 Total segment assets 181.0 298.3 253.8 109.1 428.8 228.6 1,499.6 Unallocated assets 265.0 Consolidated total assets 1,764.6 Segment liabilities Segment liabilities 279.1 163.8 182.8 79.3 140.7 139.7 985.4 Unallocated liabilities 380.4 Consolidated total liabilities 1,365.8 160 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2015 CG LRG AsPac Middle East Americas Corporate Total restated m m m m m m m Revenue 742.1 905.8 544.7 291.4 693.0 3,177.0 Result Trading profit loss from continuing operations 60.2 14.5 58.8 27.4 27.0 48.0 110.9 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 1.1 1.2 2.5 4.8 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 60.2 15.6 57.6 27.4 24.5 48.0 106.1 Exceptional profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.5 0.3 2.6 0.8 2.6 Other exceptional operating items 0.2 1.7 1.3 1.8 87.5 14.8 107.3 Operating profit loss 60.5 17.0 53.7 25.6 63.0 63.6 3.8 Investment revenue 6.1 Finance costs 71.7 Loss before tax 69.4 Tax charge 17.9 Tax on exceptional items 0.4 Loss for the year from continuing operations 86.9 Administrative expenses included within Trading Profit and operating profit has been restated following the change in accounting policy regarding foreign exchange movements on investment and financing arrangements which has also resulted in a restatement of finance costs.
Trading profit loss is defined as operating loss profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
161 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued CG LRG AsPac Middle East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2015 m m m m Americas m m m Supplementary information Share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and tax 33.8 1.5 0.8 0.1 0.8 37.0 Depreciation of plant, property and equipment 1.9 13.3 5.4 1.1 3.0 1.4 26.1 Impairment of plant, property and equipment 1.6 0.4 2.0 Total depreciation and impairment of plant, property and equipment 3.5 13.3 5.4 1.1 3.4 1.4 28.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 1.1 1.2 2.5 4.8 Amortisation of other intangible assets 0.4 2.0 1.5 0.7 1.1 18.0 23.7 Impairment and write down of other intangible assets 9.0 9.0 Total amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 0.4 12.1 2.7 0.7 3.6 18.0 37.5 Segment assets Interests in joint ventures and associates 4.4 6.5 0.4 0.2 2.3 13.8 Other segment assets 173.5 306.1 232.5 100.3 379.3 196.6 1,388.3 Total segment assets 177.9 312.6 232.9 100.5 381.6 196.6 1,402.1 Unallocated assets, including assets held for sale 437.4 Consolidated total assets 1,839.5 Segment liabilities Segment liabilities 340.0 188.9 194.1 74.7 108.6 154.0 1,060.3 Unallocated liabilities, including liabilities held for sale 497.1 Consolidated total liabilities 1,557.4 Segment assets and liabilities have been restated to reflect a consistent presentation of usage.
List of principal undertakings The following are considered to be the principal undertakings of the Group as at the year end: Principal subsidiaries 2016 2015 United Kingdom Serco Limited 100% 100% Australia Serco Australia Pty Limited 100% 100% USA Serco Inc. 100% 100% Principal joint ventures and associates 2016 2015 United Kingdom AWE Management Limited 24.5% 33.3% United Kingdom Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited 50% 50% United Kingdom Northern Rail Holdings Limited 50% 50% A full list of subsidiaries and related undertakings is included in the Appendix on pages 214 to 216 which form part of the financialstatements.
162 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 7.
Joint ventures and associates The Group has certain arrangements where control is shared equally with one or more parties and accounts for these arrangements as joint ventures.
AWE Management Limited AWEML was formerly a joint venture but in August 2016 there was a change in the AWEML shareholding structure, with the Group's shareholding reducing from 33.3% to 24.5% by way of a return of shares and Lockheed Martin taking a majority holding.
The Group was compensated for the reduction in share ownership of 8.8% through receipt of a dividend of the same amount which existed at the date of reduction.
Subsequent to the change in share ownership AWEML has been accounted for as an associate as we continue to have significant influence, and therefore continue to account for the investment through equity accounting.
The remainder of the arrangements are each a separate legal entity and legal ownership and control are equal with all other parties, there are no significant judgements required.
AWEML, Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited MSHCL and Northern Rail Holdings Limited NRHL were the only equity accounted entities which were material to the Group during the year.
Dividends of 19.6m 2015: 17.8m, 7.3m 2015: 7.2m and 10.0m 2015: 5.9m respectively were received from these companies in the year.
The Northern Rail franchise ended on 31 March 2016.
Summarised financial information of AWEML, MSHCL, NRHL and an aggregation of the other equity accounted entities in which the Group has an interest is as follows: 31 December 2016 Group portion Group portion of other of material joint joint venture AWEML MSHCL NRHL ventures and arrangements Summarised financial 100% of results 100% of results 100% of results associates and associates Total information m m m m m m Revenue 968.1 150.3 132.7 437.5 43.3 480.8 Operating profit 72.9 18.9 13.2 37.4 3.3 40.7 Net investment revenue finance costs 0.2 1.3 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.6 Income tax charge credit 11.3 3.7 3.4 6.8 0.1 6.7 Profit from continuing operations 61.8 13.9 9.9 30.1 3.3 33.4 Other comprehensive income 34.0 0.8 17.4 1.6 15.8 Total comprehensive income 61.8 47.9 10.7 47.5 1.7 49.2 Non-current assets 1,097.0 12.5 275.1 3.2 278.3 Current assets 149.3 32.8 14.2 60.1 16.0 76.1 Current liabilities 133.9 31.9 10.7 54.2 14.0 68.2 Non-current liabilities 1,095.2 0.9 268.7 3.1 271.8 Net assets 17.2 12.5 3.5 12.3 2.1 14.4 Proportion of group ownership 33% 24.5% 50% 50% Carrying amount of investment 4.2 6.3 1.8 12.3 2.1 14.4 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
163 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Joint ventures and associates continued Group portion of Group portion other joint of material joint venture AWEML MSHCL NRHL ventures and arrangements and associates Total 100% of results 100% of results 100% of results associates m m Supplementary material m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 72.4 21.1 14.5 35.4 4.7 40.1 Current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 7.0 2.3 0.5 3.1 0.9 4.0 Non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 0.6 0.3 3.0 3.3 Depreciation and amortisation 2.3 1.7 2.1 1.0 3.1 Interest income 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 Interest expense 1.3 0.6 0.1 0.7 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
The financial statements of MSHCL are for a period which is different from that of the Group, being for the 52 week period ended 7 January 2017.
The 52 week period reflects the joint ventures internal reporting structure and is sufficiently close so as to not require adjustment to match that of the Group.
The results of NRHL reflect the period of trading to the end of the franchise on 31 March 2016, together with the results from the ongoing post contract negotiations.
Excluded from the amounts disclosed in this note is an exceptional impairment of 13.9m of the equity interest and associated receivables balances of a joint venture.
Certain employees of the groups headed by AWEML and MSHCL are members of sponsored defined benefit pension schemes.
Given the significance of the schemes to understanding the position of the entities the following key disclosures are made: Main assumptions: 2016 AWEML MSHCL Rate of salary increases % 2.3% 2.3% Inflation assumption CPI % 2.3% 2.3% Discount rate % 2.7% 2.7% Post-retirement mortality: Current male industrial pensioners at 65 years 22.8 N A Future male industrial pensioners at 65 years 24.9 N A Retirement benefit funding position 100% of results m m Present value of scheme liabilities 2,556.0 275.7 Fair value of scheme assets 1,460.9 171.1 Net amount recognised 1,095.1 104.6 Members share of deficit 62.8 Franchise adjustment 41.8 Related asset, right to reimbursement 1,095.1 Net retirement benefit obligation The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
AWEML is not liable for any deficiency in the defined benefit pension scheme under current contractual arrangements.
The deficit reflected in the financial statements of MSHCL covers only that portion of the deficit that is expected to be funded over the term of the franchise arrangement the entity operates under.
In addition, the defined benefit position reflects an adjustment in respect of funding required to be provided by employees.
164 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 31 December 2015 Group portion of Group portion other joint of material joint venture AWEML NRHL ventures and arrangements 100% of results 100% of results associates and associates Total Summarised financial information m m m m m Revenue 978.3 585.3 618.7 118.5 737.2 Operating profit 61.2 19.4 30.1 12.5 42.6 Net investment revenue finance costs 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.4 Income tax expense 5.9 3.5 3.7 1.5 5.2 Profit from continuing operations 55.7 16.3 26.7 10.3 37.0 Other comprehensive income 11.9 5.9 1.7 7.6 Total comprehensive income 55.7 28.2 32.6 12.0 44.6 Non-current assets 464.2 10.3 159.9 17.3 177.2 Current assets 358.8 97.2 168.2 35.7 203.9 Current liabilities 342.6 93.4 160.9 32.7 193.6 Non-current liabilities 461.7 3.8 155.8 17.9 173.7 Net assets 18.7 10.3 11.4 2.4 13.8 Proportion of group ownership 33% 50% Carrying amount of investment 6.2 5.2 11.4 2.4 13.8 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
Group portion of Group portion other joint of material joint venture AWEML NRHL ventures and arrangements 100% of results 100% of results associates and associates Total Supplementary material m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 111.4 44.9 59.6 21.1 80.7 Current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 5.6 4.3 4.0 2.2 6.2 Non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 0.1 1.3 0.7 3.3 4.0 Depreciation and amortisation 4.6 2.2 2.3 4.5 Interest income 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.5 Interest expense 0.1 0.1 0.8 0.9 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
The financial statements of NRHL are for the 52 week period ended 9 January 2016.
165 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Joint ventures and associates continued Key disclosures with respect of the defined benefit pension schemes of material joint ventures and associates: Main assumptions: 2015 AWEML NRHL Rate of salary increases % 2.2% 3.0% Inflation assumption CPI % 2.2% 2.1% Discount rate % 4.0% 3.9% Post-retirement mortality: Current male industrial pensioners at 65 years 22.7 N A Future male industrial pensioners at 65 years 25.4 N A AWEML NRHL Retirement benefit funding position 100% of results m m Present value of scheme liabilities 1,649.6 918.3 Fair value of scheme assets 1,188.0 682.6 Net amount recognised 461.6 235.7 Members share of deficit 94.3 Franchise adjustments 141.3 Related asset, right to reimbursement 461.6 Net retirement benefit obligation 0.1 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
The Northern Rail defined benefit pension scheme used a mortality rate multiplier of 98% based on the S1 normal males heavy table, adjusted for the geographic location of members.
Acquisitions On 1 December 2016 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Orchard & Shipman Glasgow Limited for 1, obtaining full control.
Orchard & Shipman Glasgow Limited was a financially distressed subcontractor on our COMPASS contract and the business was acquired with the sole purpose of ensuring the continued delivery of this essential service to asylum seekers in Scotland and Northern Ireland.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below: Provisional Book value Fair value fair value m adjustments m m Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 0.8 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 4.2 4.2 Onerous contract provisions 1.4 12.6 14.0 Property provisions 0.5 0.5 Total identifiable assets 5.0 12.8 17.8 Goodwill 17.8 Acquisition date fair value of consideration transferred Goodwill represents the premium associated with preventing a disruption to our service users and the financial impact of penalties associated with that disruption, taking into account the pre-existing onerous contract held by O&S for services provided to Serco, which will now be performed by Serco up to the expected contract end date.
All of the service users in the region are housed in properties leased by Orchard & Shipman Glasgow Limited and the only way of guaranteeing control of those leases was by means of the acquisition of the legal entity.
As the contract is loss making no value is ascribed to these lease arrangements and all goodwill arising on acquisition is immediately impaired.
The onerous contract provision OCP of 14.0m included in the fair value of the acquisition net assets represents the best estimate of Orchard & Shipman Glasgow Limiteds contractual obligations up to the expected contract end date.
An element of this provision was previously included in the Groups existing OCP and an amount of 3.6m is included in amounts released in note 29.
No acquisition related costs were incurred.
166 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Orchard & Shipman Glasgow Limited contributed no external income to the Groups revenue for the year between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date as the prime contract with the customer exists in another Group company, and therefore Group revenue would have been no higher if the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year.
As the business relates entirely to a loss making contract, the existence of the onerous contract provision results in no profit or loss in the period since acquisition and no profit or loss would have arisen had the acquisition taken place on 1 January 2016.
Disposals There were no material disposals of continuing operations in the year.
Disposals relating to discontinued operations are included in note 4.
As explained in note 7 during the year the Group surrendered 8.8% of the share capital of AWE Management Limited, resulting in a reduction in interests in joint ventures and associates of 1.6m in return for consideration of an equal amount.
The profit on disposal of 2.9m arose from a profit of 0.4m on the disposal of a 10% investment as it was no longer required to be held under the terms of the relevant contract, and a profit of 2.5m relating to transactions completing in prior years, including cash of 4.5m as a result of deferred consideration payments received which had previously been impaired.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m Revenue as disclosed in the consolidated income statement 3,011.0 3,177.0 Investment revenue note 14 9.3 6.1 Operating lease income 0.8 0.8 Total revenue as defined in IAS 18 3,021.1 3,183.9 11.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are non recurring items of financial performance that are outside normal operations and are material to the results of the Group either by virtue of size or nature.
As such, the items set out below require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
In the year exceptional items have arisen on both the continuing and discontinued operations of the Group.
Exceptional items arising on discontinued operations are disclosed on the face of the income statement within the loss attributable to discontinued operations, those arising on continuing operations are disclosed on the face of the income statement within exceptional operating items.
Further information regarding the exceptional items arising on discontinued operations can be seen in note 4.
Exceptional gain loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations The exceptional net gain loss on disposals is included in note 9.
Other exceptional operating items arising on continuing operations 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 December m m Impairment of goodwill 17.8 87.5 Restructuring costs 17.2 19.7 Aborted transaction costs 0.1 1.7 Costs associated with UK Government review 0.1 1.2 Release of UK frontline clinical health contract provisions 0.6 2.8 Settlement of defined benefit pension obligations 10.7 Impairment of interest in joint ventures and associates, and related loan balances 13.9 Other exceptional operating items 59.2 107.3 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that there is a risk that it could be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each cash generating unit CGU is based on value in use calculations derived from forecast cash flows based on past experience, adjusted to reflect market trends, economic conditions, the Groups strategy and key risks.
These forecasts include an estimated level of new business wins and contract attrition and an assumption that the final year forecast continues into perpetuity at a CGU specific terminal growth rate.
The terminal growth rates are provided by external sources and are based on the long-term inflation rates of the geographic market in which the CGUs operate and therefore do not exceed the average long-term growth rates forecast for the individual markets.
167 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Exceptional items continued In 2016, goodwill of 17.8m arose following the acquisition of Orchard & Shipman Glasgow Limited, the Groups subcontractor on the COMPASS contract providing accommodation to asylum seekers in Scotland and Northern Ireland on behalf of the Home Office.
This goodwill was immediately impaired as the CGU is forecast to be loss making and therefore the asset cannot be supported.
The annual impairment testing of CGUs has identified no other impairment of goodwill.
In 2015 the Americas CGU was impaired by 87.5m, due primarily to a higher level of contract attrition than previously forecast and the associated impact on future cash flows.
Given the significant size of the impairment charge and that it is not part of the normal trading performance of the business it was considered appropriate to treat as exceptional in the year.
In 2016, a charge of 17.2m 2015: 19.7m arose in relation to the restructuring programme resulting from the Strategy Review.
This included redundancy payments, provisions, external advisory fees and other incremental costs.
Due to the nature and scale of the impact of the transformation phase of the Strategy Review the incremental costs associated with this programme were considered to be exceptional in the prior year and have been treated consistently in 2016.
Non exceptional restructuring charges incurred by the business as part of normal operational activity totalled 6.7m in the year 2015: 13.8m.
The disposal of the Environmental and Leisure businesses was aborted in December 2015 and during the current period costs related to the aborted transaction were finalised, resulting in a charge of 0.1m 2015: 1.7m.
In 2016 there were exceptional costs totalling 0.1m 2015: 1.2m associated with the UK Government review and the programme of Corporate Renewal, reflecting the related external costs.
This reflected external costs related to this review and the Corporate Renewal Programme, which were treated as exceptional when the matter first arose and consistent treatment has been applied in the current year.
In 2016 there were releases of provisions of 0.6m 2015: 2.8m which were previously charged through exceptional items in relation to the exit of the UK Frontline Clinical Health contracts.
Following the finalisation of the Revised Fair Deal, a number of employees are being transferred from SPLAS back to the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme.
This transfer was finalised in December 2016 at which point all obligations of SPLAS to pay retirement benefits for these individuals were eliminated and as a result a settlement charge of 10.7m arose.
This has been treated as an exceptional item in the year as a result of the transaction being material in size and nature and being outside of the normal course of business.
The charge of 10.7m is an accounting charge only, the cash impact of the settlement which will be paid in future periods, is estimated as 3.0m and is offset by future savings in contributions resulting from the transfer.
A review of a joint ventures cash flow projections has led to the impairment of 13.9m of the equity interest and associated receivables balances.
The impairment is outside of the normal course of business and of a significant value, and is therefore considered to be an exceptional item.
Exceptional finance costs The exceptional finance costs charged in 2015 of 32.8m arose as a result of costs being incurred in 2015 to preserve the existing finance facilities, after an agreement was reached in December 2014 for the Group to defer its December 2014 covenant test until May 2015.
In addition, payments were made to the US Private Placement USPP Noteholders as a result of early settlement following the Group refinancing.
Total charges of 32.8m had been treated as exceptional items as they were outside of the normal financing arrangement of the Group and were significant in size.
Tax impact of above items The tax impact of these exceptional items was a tax credit of 3.1m 2015: 0.4m.
Further details are provided in note 16.
168 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 12.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2015 2016 restated Year ended 31 December m m Research and development costs 3.6 4.3 Exceptional goodwill impairment note 11 17.8 87.5 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 1.5 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.8 1.7 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 25.5 28.1 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition 5.1 4.8 Amortisation, write down and impairment of intangible assets other 21.8 32.7 Exceptional net gain loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations note 9 2.9 2.6 Staff costs note 13 1,526.8 1,532.2 Allowance for doubtful debts credited to income statement 0.1 6.8 Net foreign exchange charge 0.7 0.1 Movement on non-designated hedges and reclassified cash flow hedges 0.6 0.3 Lease payments recognised through operating profit 99.5 104.4 Operating lease income from sub-leases note 10 0.8 0.8 Net foreign exchange charges have been restated as a result of the change in treatment of foreign exchange items on investing and financing items as explained in note 2.
Amounts payable to by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and non-audit services to the Companys Auditor are shown below.
2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.8 0.9 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.6 Total audit fees 1.3 1.5 Auditrelated assurance services 0.2 0.2 Tax compliance services 0.1 Tax advisory services 0.2 0.2 Other services 0.3 2.6 Total non-audit fees 0.8 3.0 The 2016 fees represent those paid to the current Auditor since appointment in May 2016.
The 2015 fees represent fees paid to the previous Auditor.
During 2016, prior to appointment, non audit fees of 0.5m tax advisory services 0.2m, internal audit services 0.1m and other services 0.2m, were paid to KPMG LLP, bringing the total non audit fees paid to KPMG LLP during the year to 1.3m.
Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed separately because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidatedbasis.
Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 88.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
169 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Staff costs The average monthly number of full time equivalent employees including Executive Directors for continuing operations comprised: 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December number number UK Central Government 10,081 10,182 UK & Europe Local & Regional Government 10,791 11,357 Americas 8,115 9,727 AsPac 8,929 8,885 Middle East 4,347 3,996 Unallocated 913 1,094 43,176 45,241 Aggregate remuneration on continuing operations comprised: 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m Wages and salaries 1,332.3 1,337.5 Social security costs 100.3 100.7 Other pension costs note 33 84.6 85.1 1,517.2 1,523.3 Share based payment expense note 37 9.6 8.9 1,526.8 1,532.2 14.
Investment revenue 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m Interest receivable on other loans and deposits 3.6 1.1 Net interest receivable on retirement benefit obligations note 33 4.7 4.9 Movement in discount on other debtors 1.0 0.1 9.3 6.1 15.
Finance costs 2015 2016 restated Year ended 31 December m m Interest payable on obligations under finance leases 1.6 2.5 Interest payable on other loans 15.6 24.7 Facility fees and other charges 3.5 6.2 Movement in discount on provisions 2.4 5.6 23.1 39.0 Foreign exchange on financing activities 1.2 0.1 21.9 38.9 Finance costs have been restated as a result of the change in treatment of foreign exchange items on investing and financing items as explained in note 2.
170 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 16.
Tax 16 a Income tax recognised in the income statement Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Year ended 31 December 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Continuing operations m m m m m m Current income tax Current income tax charge credit 12.1 1.3 10.8 4.5 0.4 4.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.6 3.6 6.0 6.0 Deferred tax Current year charge credit 1.2 1.8 0.6 12.7 12.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.1 1.1 5.3 5.3 15.8 3.1 12.7 17.9 0.4 17.5 The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit in the consolidated income statement as follows: Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Profit loss before tax 85.9 56.3 29.6 73.3 142.7 69.4 Tax calculated at a rate of 20.00% 2015: 20.25% 17.1 11.2 5.9 14.9 28.9 14.0 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5.1 9.2 14.3 3.8 0.2 3.6 UK unprovided deferred tax 3.9 3.9 17.8 8.3 26.1 Other unprovided deferred tax 0.3 0.7 0.4 14.9 25.1 10.2 Effect of the use of unrecognised tax losses 3.1 3.1 0.3 4.9 5.2 Overseas rate differences 4.6 4.6 3.2 0.2 3.4 Other non taxable income 0.1 0.4 0.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.5 2.5 0.7 0.7 Adjustments in respect of equity accounted investments 6.7 6.7 7.3 7.3 Tax charge credit 15.8 3.1 12.7 17.9 0.4 17.5 Relates to costs that are not allowable for tax deduction under local tax law.
Non deductible expenses in relation to exceptional items relate mainly to capital expenses, such as the impairments that are not deductible for tax.
Arises due to timing differences between when an amount is recognised in the income statement and when the amount is subject to UK tax.
In the current year, the Group has received tax deductions for amounts which have been charged to the income statement in previous periods in connection with items such as fixed assets.
The income tax charge credit for the year is based on the blended UK statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 20.00% 2015: 20.25%.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
171 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16.
Tax continued 16 b Income tax recognised in the SOCI 2016 2015 Year ended 31 December m m Current tax Taken to retirement benefit obligations reserve 0.1 Deferred tax Taken to retirement benefit obligations reserve 1.7 4.0 1.7 4.1 17.
Deferred tax Deferred income taxes are calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using local substantively enacted taxrates.
The movement in net deferred tax assets during the year was as follows: 2016 2015 m m At 1 January asset 19.9 28.2 Income statement credit 2.0 3.7 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income 1.7 4.2 Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary 5.5 Exchange differences 0.1 3.3 Reclassified to assets held for sale At 31 December asset 20.3 19.9 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year was as follows: Temporary Share based differences payment and Retirement Other on assets employee benefit temporary intangibles benefits schemes OCPs Tax losses differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 26.8 9.7 17.8 28.3 10.8 15.7 19.9 Credited charged to income statement note 16a 0.9 0.5 1.5 14.7 0.6 16.2 2.0 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income note 16b&c 1.7 1.7 Exchange differences 8.8 1.8 0.4 4.2 0.1 2.4 0.1 At 31 December 2016 36.5 12.0 17.6 17.8 10.3 34.3 20.3 Of the amount credited to the income statement, 0.3m 2015: 0.3m has been taken to costs of sales in respect of the R&D Expenditure credit.
Other temporary differences include a deferred tax asset of 0.1m in respect of derivative financial instruments 2015: nil.
172 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the previous year was as follows: Temporary Share based differences payment and Retirement Other on assets employee benefit temporary intangibles benefits schemes OCPs Tax losses differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 7.5 9.5 21.7 30.5 10.7 6.7 28.2 Credited charged to income statement note 16a 17.3 0.5 0.3 1.1 0.1 14.4 3.7 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income note 16b&c 4.2 4.2 Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary 5.5 5.5 Exchange differences 2.0 0.3 1.1 0.1 3.3 At 31 December 2015 26.8 9.7 17.8 28.3 10.8 15.7 19.9 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax liabilities 30.5 22.3 Deferred tax assets 50.8 42.2 20.3 19.9 The total deferred tax asset held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amounts to 50.8m 2015: 42.2m.
The total deferred tax liability held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amounts to 30.5m 2015: 22.3m.
Amounts held for sale on the balance sheet include nil in respect of deferred tax assets 2015: nil and nil in respect of deferred tax liabilities 2015: nil.
As at the balance sheet date, the group excluding assets held for sale has unused tax losses of 893.5m 2015: 890.1m available for offset against future profits.
In the summer of 2016, UK Government announced a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% effective from April 2017 and a reduction down to 18% from April 2020.
Measures enacted during 2016 cut the rate further from April 2020 to 17%.
These decreases do not affect the amount of current income tax recognised at 31December 2016 although it will reduce the Group's future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax balance at 31 December2016 has been calculated reflecting these rates.
An expected change in the UK loss utilisation laws in 2017 is estimated to reduce the value of the recognised deferred tax asset by 3.7m.
Losses of 0.1m 2015: 105.5m expire within 5 years, losses of 0.2m 2015 0.2m expire within 610 years, losses of 8.6m 2015 nil expire within 20 years and losses of 884.6m 2015 784.4m may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has no held for sale assets.
At 2015 there were 7.3m of unused tax losses that were available for offset against future profits in held for sale assets.
No deferred tax asset was recognised in respect of these losses as it was not probable that there will be future taxable profits available.
173 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share EPS have been calculated in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per Share.
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS is based on the following data: 2016 2015 Number of shares millions millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,088.3 986.5 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Share options 37.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 1,125.6 986.5 At 31 December 2016 options over 246,818 2015: 560,060 shares were excluded from the weighted average number of shares used for calculating diluted earnings per share because their exercise price was above the average share price for the year and they were, therefore, anti-dilutive.
The dilutive shares of 37.3m 2015: 26.5m are applied in the continuing only EPS calculation.
Due to the loss making position of continuing and discontinued combined, and discontinued only, the dilutive impact has not been calculated in 2016 and 2015, nor for 2015 continuing.
Earnings per share continuing and discontinued Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 2016 2016 2015 2015 Basic EPS m pence m pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 1.2 0.11 152.6 15.47 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Diluted EPS 1.2 0.11 152.6 15.47 Basic EPS excluding exceptional items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 1.2 0.11 152.6 15.47 Add back exceptional items 70.9 6.51 220.3 22.33 Add back tax on exceptional items 3.1 0.28 3.1 0.31 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 66.6 6.12 64.6 6.55 Earnings per share continuing Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 2016 2016 2015 2015 Basic EPS m pence m pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 16.9 1.55 86.6 8.78 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 0.05 Diluted EPS 16.9 1.50 86.6 8.78 Basic EPS excluding exceptional items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 16.9 1.55 86.6 8.78 Add back exceptional items 56.3 5.17 142.7 14.47 Add back tax on exceptional items 3.1 0.28 0.4 0.04 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 70.1 6.44 55.7 5.65 174 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Earnings per share discontinued Per share Per share amount Earnings amount Earnings 2015 2016 2016 2015 m pence Basic EPS m pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 18.1 1.66 66.0 6.69 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Diluted EPS 18.1 1.66 66.0 6.69 Basic EPS excluding exceptional items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 18.1 1.66 66.0 6.69 Add back exceptional items 14.6 1.34 77.6 7.87 Add back tax on exceptional items 2.7 0.28 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 3.5 0.32 8.9 0.90 19.
Goodwill Accumulated impairment Cost losses Carrying amount m m m At 1 January 2015 673.2 131.7 541.5 Exchange differences 17.6 7.8 9.8 Impairment exceptional 87.5 87.5 Transfer to held for sale 108.3 62.2 46.1 At 1 January 2016 799.1 289.2 509.9 Exchange differences 109.6 41.6 68.0 Acquisitions 17.8 17.8 Impairment exceptional 17.8 17.8 At 31 December 2016 926.5 348.6 577.9 Further details of the exceptional impairment can be seen in note 11.
175 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Goodwill continued Movements in the balance since the prior year end can be seen as follows: Goodwill Goodwill Headroom on Headroom on balance Exchange balance impairment impairment 31 December Additions differences Impairment 31 December analysis analysis 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 m m m m m m m UK Central Government Justice & Immigration 49.6 49.6 126.3 59.3 Orchard & Shipman Glasgow Limited 17.8 17.8 UK & Europe Local & Regional Government UK Health 60.6 60.6 3.2 2.3 Direct Services & Europe 63.7 2.8 66.5 99.0 83.5 Americas 232.0 45.9 277.9 66.5 AsPac 94.7 17.7 112.4 203.2 161.6 Middle East 9.3 1.6 10.9 114.7 134.2 509.9 17.8 68.0 17.8 577.9 612.9 440.9 Included above is the detail of the headroom on the CGUs existing at the year end which reflects where future discounted cash flows are greater than the underlying assets and includes all relevant cash flows, including where provisions have been made for future costs and losses.
The addition and impairment arises on acquisition of Orchard & Shipman Glasgow Limited.
The key assumptions applied in the impairment review are set out below: Terminal Terminal Discount Discount growth growth rate rate rates rates 2016 2015 2016 2015 % % % % UK Central Government Justice & Immigration 10.0 10.3 2.0 2.0 UK & Europe Local & Regional Government UK Health 10.1 10.1 2.0 2.0 Direct Services & Europe 11.6 10.1 2.0 2.0 Americas 10.7 10.3 2.4 2.4 AsPac 10.9 10.7 2.4 2.4 Middle East 10.6 9.7 2.2 2.1 Discount rate Pre-tax discount rates, derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital have been used in discounting the projected cash flows.
These rates are reviewed annually with external advisers and are adjusted for risks specific to the market in which the CGU operates.
Short-term growth rates The annual impairment test is performed immediately prior to the year end, based initially on five year cash flow forecasts approved by senior management.
Short-term revenue growth rates used in each CGU five year plan are based on internal data regarding our current contracted position, the pipeline of opportunities and forecast growth for the relevant market.
Short-term profitability and cash conversion is based on our historic experiences and a level of judgement is applied to expected changes in both.
Where businesses have been poor performers in recent history, turnaround has only been assumed where a detailed and achievable plan is in place and all forecasts include cash flows relating to contracts where onerous contract provisions have been made.
176 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Terminal growth rates The calculations include a terminal value based on the projections for the fifth year of the short-term plan, with a growth rate assumption applied which extrapolates the business into perpetuity.
The terminal growth rates are based on long-term inflation rates of the geographic market in which the CGUs operate and therefore do not exceed the average long-term growth rates forecast for the individual markets.
These are provided by externalsources.
Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis has been performed for each key assumption, a 1% movement in discount rates and a 1% movement in terminal growth rates are considered to be reasonably possible.
The only CGU impacted by a reasonably possible change in a key assumption is Health.
The breakeven point of Health goodwill impairment is a 0.2% increase in discount rate or a 0.3% decrease in terminal growth rate.
Serco operates a contract supporting the US Affordable Care Act ACA with eligibility processing services to those seeking health insurance.
These operations accounted for nearly 30% of the Americas divisional revenue in 2016, and we currently forecast them to be broadly flat in 2017.
The contract requires the final option year to be exercised in H1 of 2017 in order to extend through to 30 June 2018 at which point we would be required to rebid the contract.
Particular uncertainty exists with regard to the future of the ACA.
At the time of reporting, apart from knowing that under the new US Presidents Administration changes will be made to the ACA, there is no consensus in neither Congress nor the Administration as to what form these changes will take, and what provision will be made for the more than 24 million people who have received their health insurance coverage through the ACA.
Whilst margins on this contract are lower than the average for the Americas division, the contract recovers a material amount of overhead costs and large reductions in chargeable direct labour could create challenges to reduce overheads in line with revenues.
The timing and nature of arrangements made for the replacement of the Affordable Care Act in the US could therefore have a material impact on the business both in the immediate and longer term.
However, at present, the impact on future revenues and profitability cannot be reliably estimated.
Other intangible assets Acquisition related Other Internally generated Customer Licences and Software development relationships franchises and IT expenditure Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 51.9 1.0 110.2 59.1 222.2 Additions from internal development 14.0 1.1 15.1 Disposals 0.7 12.9 2.6 16.2 Reclassification from held for sale assets 6.2 0.1 6.3 Reclassification from to other intangible asset categories 0.3 0.1 3.3 3.5 Research and Development expenditure credit 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 9.2 6.0 1.8 17.0 At 31 December 2016 67.6 0.3 120.6 55.7 244.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2016 33.1 0.9 62.9 35.5 132.4 Impairment charge 0.7 0.7 Amortisation charge internal development 17.0 4.8 21.8 Amortisation charge external 4.4 4.4 Disposals 0.7 12.0 2.6 15.3 Reclassification from held for sale assets 6.2 0.1 6.3 Exchange differences 6.0 3.7 0.6 10.3 At 31 December 2016 50.4 0.3 71.6 38.3 160.6 Net book value At 31 December 2016 17.2 49.0 17.4 83.6 177 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Other intangible assets continued Acquisition related Other Internally generated Pension Customer Licences and Software development related relationships franchises and IT expenditure intangibles Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 116.8 1.6 146.9 67.3 15.7 348.3 Eliminated on disposal 0.2 2.7 2.9 Additions from internal development 10.2 14.0 24.2 Additions from external acquisition 7.8 7.8 Disposals 26.8 51.9 14.7 6.2 99.6 Reclassification from to held for sale assets 38.5 0.6 3.8 2.8 9.5 55.2 Reclassification from to other intangible asset categories 1.3 1.3 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Research and Development expenditure credit 0.8 0.8 Exchange differences 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.7 At 31 December 2015 51.9 1.0 110.2 59.1 222.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2015 76.3 1.4 100.5 35.6 15.7 229.5 Eliminated on disposal 0.2 0.2 0.4 Impairment charge 9.0 9.0 Amortisation charge internal development 12.7 7.4 20.1 Amortisation charge external 4.8 0.1 3.6 8.5 Disposals 26.1 51.0 14.0 6.2 97.3 Reclassification from to held for sale assets 22.2 0.6 2.6 2.4 9.5 37.3 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.6 At 31 December 2015 33.1 0.9 62.9 35.5 132.4 Net book value At 31 December 2015 18.8 0.1 47.3 23.6 89.8 Included in Software and IT and other internally generated development expenditure is an amount of 8.7m 2015: 11.8m in respect of leased intangibles.
Customer relationships are amortised over the average length of contracts acquired.
The Group is carrying 17.2m 2015: 18.8m in relation to Customer relationships.
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition consists of amortisation in relation to Customer relationships and Licences and franchises and totals 4.4m 2015: 4.9m.
The net book value of internally generated intangible assets as at 31 December 2016 was approximately 17.4m 2015: 23.6m in development expenditure and 36.9m 2015: 36.5m in software and IT, of which nil 2015: 0.2m is classified as held for sale.
178 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 21.
Property, plant and equipment Machinery, Freehold Shortmotor vehicles, land and leasehold furniture and buildings assets equipment Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 4.0 29.8 209.7 243.5 Additions 1.8 15.6 17.4 Reclassification from held for sale assets 0.9 0.2 1.1 Disposals 3.2 31.8 35.0 Exchange differences 3.1 15.5 18.6 At 31 December 2016 4.0 32.4 209.2 245.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2016 2.3 20.7 147.3 170.3 Charge for the year impairment 0.7 0.7 Charge for the year depreciation 0.2 3.0 21.6 24.8 Reclassification from held for sale assets 0.2 0.2 0.4 Disposals 2.9 30.9 33.8 Exchange differences 2.2 12.5 14.7 At 31 December 2016 2.5 22.8 151.0 176.3 Net book value At 31 December 2016 1.5 9.6 58.2 69.3 179 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Property, plant and equipment continued Machinery, Freehold Shortmotor vehicles, land and leasehold furniture and buildings assets equipment Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2015 5.7 42.3 117.6 165.6 Additions 1.1 15.0 16.1 Reclassification to from other plant, property and equipment categories 0.9 0.9 Reclassification from intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Reclassification to from held for sale assets 2.8 128.1 125.3 Disposals 0.1 9.2 22.1 31.4 Eliminated on disposal 0.7 2.7 24.7 28.1 Exchange differences 0.1 4.2 4.3 At 31 December 2015 4.0 29.8 209.7 243.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2015 3.1 30.8 93.3 127.2 Charge for the year impairment 0.1 1.9 2.0 Charge for the year depreciation 0.2 2.8 22.6 25.6 Reclassification to from other plant, property and equipment categories 0.2 0.2 Reclassification from intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Reclassification to from held for sale assets 2.0 77.0 75.0 Disposals 0.1 8.7 20.1 28.9 Eliminated on disposal 0.7 2.7 23.9 27.3 Exchange differences 0.1 3.5 3.6 At 31 December 2015 2.3 20.7 147.3 170.3 Net book value At 31 December 2015 1.7 9.1 62.4 73.2 The carrying amount of the Groups Machinery, motor vehicles, furniture and equipment includes an amount of 27.9m 2015: 36.5m in respect of assets held under finance leases, of which nil 2015: nil is classified as held for sale.
The carrying amount of the Groups short-leasehold assets includes an amount of 0.2m 2015: 0.3m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Inventories 2016 2015 m m Service spares 17.0 15.7 Parts awaiting installation 1.0 5.8 Work in progress 4.4 4.9 22.4 26.4 Total inventories held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amount to 22.4m 2015: 26.4m and include 22.4m 2015: 26.4m shown above and nil 2015: nil included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
180 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 23.
Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 Trade and other receivables: Non-current m m Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 7.2 Loans receivable note 28 22.4 19.5 Other investments 0.6 3.4 Other receivables 21.4 20.1 44.4 50.2 2016 2015 Trade and other receivables: Current m m Trade receivables 192.8 173.6 Accrued income and other unbilled receivables 228.4 225.5 Prepayments 56.3 57.6 Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts note 24 2.7 2.3 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.8 Loans receivable note 28 0.5 0.4 Security deposits 0.1 0.2 Other receivables 62.1 59.3 543.5 519.7 Total trade and other receivables held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amount to 587.9m 2015: 590.7m and include 587.9m 2015:569.9m shown above and nil 2015: 20.8m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
The Group has a receivables financing facility of 30.0m 2015: 30.0m, of which 7.7m had been utilised at 31 December 2016 31December 2015: 30.0m utilised.
The management of trade receivables is the responsibility of the operating segments, although they report to Group on a monthly basis on debtor days, debtor ageing and significant outstanding debts.
The average credit period taken by customers is 23 days 2015: 20 days and no interest is charged on overdue amounts.
Each customer has an external credit score which determines the level of credit provided.
However, the majority of our customers have a sovereign credit rating as a result of being government organisations.
Of the trade receivables balance at the end of the year, 71.4m is due from agencies of the UK Government, the Groups largest customer, 48.6m from the Australian Government, 37.6m from the Government of the United Arab Emirates, and 16.5m from the US Government.
There are no other customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
Of the trade receivables balance at the end of 2015, 39.6m was due from agencies of the UK Government.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to trade receivables at the reporting date is the fair value of trade receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
As at 31 December 2016, a total of 2.8m 2015: 1.4m of trade receivables held by the Group were considered to be impaired and include 2.8m 2015: 1.4m shown below and nil 2015: nil included within amounts held for sale.
Impairments to trade receivables are based on specific estimated irrecoverable amounts and provisions on outstanding balances greater than a year old unless there is firm evidence that the balance is recoverable.
The total amount of the provision for the Group was 3.6m as of 31 December 2016 2015: 11.3m and included 3.6m 2015: 11.3m as shown below and nil 2015: nil of provision for trade receivables held for sale.
181 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Trade and other receivables continued 2016 2015 Ageing of trade receivables m m Neither impaired nor past due 143.0 99.0 Not impaired but overdue by less than 30 days 34.2 56.3 Not impaired but overdue by between 30 and 60 days 4.0 7.8 Not impaired but overdue by more than 60 days 12.4 20.4 Impaired 2.8 1.4 Allowance for doubtful debts 3.6 11.3 192.8 173.6 Of the total overdue trade receivable balance, 53.2% 2015: 35.5% relates to the UK, US or Australian governments, and a further 15.7% 2015: 34.4% relates to the government of the United Arab Emirates.
The total allowance for doubtful debts is greater than the assets identified as impaired due to provision being made for partial impairment of balances held within one of the ageing categories.
2016 2015 Movements on the Group allowance for doubtful debts m m At 1 January 11.3 23.5 Net charges and releases to income statement 0.1 6.8 Utilised 8.2 2.8 Exchange differences 0.6 0.8 Reclassified to held for sale 3.4 At 31 December 3.6 11.3 Included in the other receivables balance at the end of the year is a further 19.2m 2015: 72.1m due from agencies of the UK Government.
Included within current other receivables are capitalised bid costs of 7.8m 2015: 9.0m and phase in costs of 13.8m 2015: 19.6m that are realised as a part of the normal operating cycle of the Group.
These assets represent up-front investment in contracts which are expected to provide benefits over the life of those contracts.
Movements in the period were as follows: 2016 m At 1 January 28.6 Additions 4.7 Amortisation 13.8 Exchange differences 2.1 At 31 December 21.6 Capitalised bid costs of nil 2015: nil and phase in costs of nil 2015: 0.3m are held within assets held for sale.
Long-term contracts 2016 2015 Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date m m Amounts due from long-term project based contract customers included in trade and other receivables 2.7 2.3 Amounts due to long-term project-based contract customers included in provisions 10.0 7.3 2.3 Long-term project based contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 226.3 109.9 Less: progress payments 233.6 107.6 7.3 2.3 As at 31 December 2016, the Group had nil 2015: nil of contract retentions held by customers.
182 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 25.
Cash and cash equivalents Other Other Sterling currencies Total Sterling currencies Total 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 m m m m m m Customer advance payments 1.0 1.0 3.1 3.1 Other cash and short-term deposits 149.4 27.4 176.8 293.7 26.8 320.5 Total cash and cash equivalents 149.4 28.4 177.8 293.7 29.9 323.6 Customer advance payments totalling 1.0m 2015: 3.1m are encumbered cash balances.
A further nil 2015: nil of encumbered cash has been reclassified as held for sale.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Total cash and cash equivalents held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amount to 177.8m 2015: 328.8m and include 177.8m 2015: 323.6m shown above and nil 2015: 5.2m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Trade and other payables 2016 2015 Trade and other payables: Current m m Trade payables 84.7 93.6 Other payables 92.9 96.4 Accruals 292.2 303.1 Deferred income 54.7 55.7 524.5 548.8 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 32 days 2015: 28 days.
2016 2015 Trade and other payables: Non-current m m Other payables 16.8 18.3 Total trade and other payables held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amount to 541.3m 2015: 574.5m and include 541.3m 2015: 567.1m shown above and nil 2015: 7.4m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Obligations under finance leases Present value of Present value of Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments 2016 2016 2015 2015 Amounts payable under finance leases m m m m Within one year 13.1 12.3 17.0 15.8 Between one and five years 16.8 15.9 28.7 27.4 After five years 0.6 0.6 29.9 28.2 46.3 43.8 Less: future finance charges 1.7 2.5 Present value of lease obligations 28.2 28.2 43.8 43.8 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 12.3 12.3 15.8 15.8 Amount due for settlement after one year 15.9 15.9 28.0 28.0 Total obligations under finance leases held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amount to 28.2m 2015: 44.3m and include 28.2m 2015: 43.8m shown above and nil 2015: 0.5m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Finance lease obligations are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
The Directors estimate that the fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
183 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Loans Total Total 2016 2015 m m Loans are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 9.2 131.9 Between one and two years 34.2 Between two and five years 137.5 62.5 After five years 96.1 167.6 277.0 362.0 Less: assets classified as held for sale Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 9.7 132.2 Less: amounts shown in receivables note 23 22.9 19.9 Amount due for settlement after one year 290.2 249.7 Included in loans repayable on demand or within one year are loan receivable amounts of 0.5m 2015: 0.4m.
Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m Other loans 299.9 289.7 381.9 379.0 Loan receivables 22.9 22.9 19.9 19.9 277.0 266.8 362.0 359.1 The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using a market rate appropriate to the loan.
All loans are held at amortised cost.
At 1 Reclassified At 31 January Cash as held for Exchange Non cash December 2016 flow sale Acquisitions Disposals differences movements 2016 Analysis of Net Debt m m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 323.6 153.7 0.1 7.8 177.8 Loan receivables 19.9 0.1 2.9 22.9 Loans payable 381.9 135.8 52.8 1.0 299.9 Obligations under finance leases 43.8 16.7 0.2 0.4 0.5 28.2 Derivatives relating to Net Debt 14.6 3.5 18.1 67.6 1.2 0.2 0.1 41.8 1.4 109.3 At 1 At 31 January Reclassified Exchange December 2015 Cash as held for differences Non cash 2015 restated flow sale Acquisitions Disposals restated movements restated m m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 180.1 128.8 17.2 0.4 2.1 323.6 Loan receivables 1.0 0.6 19.5 19.9 Loans payable 797.3 449.0 0.8 30.8 2.0 381.9 Obligations under finance leases 26.5 9.3 26.7 0.1 43.8 Derivatives relating to Net Debt 10.7 3.9 14.6 632.0 586.5 10.3 0.4 29.0 17.6 67.6 Net Debt has been restated to include derivative financial instruments that relate to other components of Net Debt.
Acquisitions represent the net cash debt acquired on acquisition.
Total net debt held amounts to 109.3m 2015: 62.9m of which 109.3m 2015: 67.6m is shown above and nil 2015: 4.7m asset is included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
184 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 29.
Provisions Employee related Property Contract Other Total m m m m m At 1 January 2016 36.4 18.3 302.1 124.9 481.7 Acquisitions 0.6 14.0 14.6 Reclassified to trade and other payables 11.5 8.3 19.8 Charged to income statement exceptional 0.4 22.7 23.1 Charged to income statement other 25.6 4.4 56.6 23.7 110.3 Released to income statement exceptional 0.2 0.6 0.8 Released to income statement other 5.3 0.3 64.9 17.2 87.7 Utilised during the year 17.5 6.2 82.0 17.7 123.4 Reclassification 2.9 7.3 4.9 5.3 Transfer from assets held for sale 3.3 3.3 Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary 1.7 1.7 Unwinding of discount 0.1 2.4 2.5 Exchange differences 5.7 1.2 11.4 6.6 24.9 At 31 December 2016 45.1 15.2 220.2 141.2 421.7 Analysed as: Current 13.7 4.3 79.2 75.1 172.3 Non-current 31.4 10.9 141.0 66.1 249.4 Total provisions held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amount to 421.7m 2015: 506.2m and include 421.7m 2015: 481.7m shown above and nil 2015: 24.5m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Contract provisions relate to onerous contracts which will be utilised over the life of each individual contract, up to a maximum of 8 years from the balance sheet date.
The present value of the estimated future cash outflows required to settle the contract obligations as they fall due over the respective contracts has been used in determining the provision.
A full analysis is performed at least annually of the future profitability of all contracts with marginal performances and of the balance sheet items directly linked to these contracts.
Due to the significant size of the balance and the inherent level of uncertainty over the amount and timing of the related cash flows upon which onerous contract provisions are based, if the expected operational performance varies from the best estimates made at the year end, a material change in estimate may be required.
The key drivers behind operational performance is the level of activity required to be serviced, which is often directed by the actions of the UK Government, and the efficiency of Group employees and resources.
Employee related provisions are for long-term service awards and terminal gratuities liabilities which have been accrued and are based on contractual entitlement, together with an estimate of the probabilities that employees will stay until retirement and receive all relevant amounts.
There are also amounts included in relation to restructuring.
The provisions will be utilised over various periods driven by local legal or regulatory requirements, the timing of which is not certain.
Property provisions relate to leased properties which are either underutilised or vacant and where the unavoidable costs associated with the lease exceed the economic benefits expected to be generated in the future.
The provision has been calculated based on the discounted cash outflows required to settle the lease obligations as they fall due, with the longest running lease ending in April 2039.
Other provisions are held for indemnities given on disposed businesses, legal and other costs that the Group expects to incur over an extended period, in respect of past events.
These costs are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent managements best estimate of the likely outcome and will be utilised with reference to the specific facts and circumstances, with the majority expecting to be settled by 31 December 2021.
185 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Capital and other commitments 2016 2015 Capital expenditure contracted but not provided m m Property, plant and equipment 10.4 9.3 Intangible assets 5.6 6.9 Of the above, nil 2015: nil in relation to property, plant and equipment commitment is associated with assets which have been reclassified as held for sale.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 66.9 36.9 Between one and five years 127.6 64.1 After five years 126.1 12.3 320.6 113.3 Of the above, nil 2015: 0.5m is associated with assets which have been reclassified as held for sale.
Of this nil 2015: 0.3m is due within one year, nil 2015: 0.2m is due between one and five years, and nil 2015: nil is due after five years.
Contingent liabilities The Company has guaranteed overdrafts, finance leases, and bonding facilities of its joint ventures and associates up to a maximum value of 20.4m 2015: 21.1m.
The actual commitment outstanding at 31 December 2016 was 17.9m 2015: 20.8m.
The Company and its subsidiaries have provided certain guarantees and indemnities in respect of performance and other bonds, issued by its banks on its behalf in the ordinary course of business.
The total commitment outstanding as at 31 December 2016 was 252.1m 2015: 211.8m.
As we have disclosed before, we are under investigation by the Serious Fraud Office.
In November 2013, the UKs Serious Fraud Office announced that it had opened an investigation, which remains ongoing, into the Groups Electronic Monitoring Contract.
We are cooperating fully with the Serious Fraud Offices investigation but it is not possible to predict the outcome.
However, disclosed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties in this Report is a description of the range of possible outcomes in the event that the Serious Fraud Office decides to prosecute the individuals and or the Serco entities involved.
The Group is aware of other claims and potential claims which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, that it is unlikely that these matters will, in aggregate, have a material effect on the Groups financial position.
Financial risk management 32 a Fair value of financial instruments i Hierarchy of fair value The classification of the fair value measurement falls into three levels, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are as follows: Level 1: inputs derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Based on the above, the derivative financial instruments held by the Group at 31 December 2016 and the comparison fair values for loans and finance leases, are all considered to fall into Level 2.
Market prices are sourced from Bloomberg and third party valuations.
The valuation models incorporate various inputs including foreign exchange spot and forward rates and interest rate curves.
There have been no transfers between levels in the year.
186 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The Group held the following financial instruments which fall within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement at 31 December: Carrying amount Comparison Carrying amount Comparison measurement basis fair value measurement basis fair value Amortised Fair value Amortised Fair value cost Level 2 Level 2 cost Level 2 Level 2 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 m m m m m m Financial assets Financial assets current Cash and bank balances 177.8 177.8 323.6 323.6 Derivatives designated as FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts 4.5 6.6 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Cross currency swaps 2.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.4 0.2 Loans and receivables Trade receivables note 23 192.8 192.8 173.6 173.6 Loan receivables note 23 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 Security deposits note 23 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates note 23 0.6 0.8 0.8 Financial assets non-current Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Cross currency swaps 14.2 7.8 Loans and receivables Loan receivables note 23 22.4 22.4 19.5 19.5 Other investments note 23 0.6 0.6 3.4 3.4 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates note 23 7.2 7.2 Financial liabilities current Derivatives designated as FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.6 2.4 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade payables note 26 84.7 84.7 93.6 93.6 Loans note 28 9.7 9.7 132.2 132.2 Obligations under finance leases note 27 12.3 12.3 15.8 15.8 Financial liabilities non-current Financial liabilities at amortised cost Loans note 28 290.2 280.1 249.7 246.8 Obligations under finance leases note 27 15.9 15.9 28.0 28.0 The Directors estimate that the carrying amounts of cash, trade receivables and trade payables approximate to their fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
187 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued 32 a Fair value of financial instruments continued i Hierarchy of fair value continued The fair values of loans and finance lease obligations are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate associated with the liability.
The fair value of derivatives is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach applying discount factors derived from observable market data to actual and estimated future cash flows.
Credit risk is considered in the calculation of these fair values.
ii Fair value of derivative financial instruments The fair valuation of derivative financial instruments results in a net asset of 18.5m 2015: net assets of 14.8m comprising non-current assets of 14.2m 2015: 7.8m, current assets of 4.9m 2015: 9.4m, current liabilities of 0.6m 2015: 2.4m and non-current liabilities of nil 2015: nil.
Movement in fair Movement in fair value of derivatives value of derivatives designated in not designated in hedge accounting hedge accounting 1 January 2016 relationships relationships 31 December 2016 m m m m Currency swaps 10.4 3.8 14.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 4.4 0.2 0.3 4.3 14.8 4.0 0.3 18.5 Movement in fair Movement in fair value of derivatives value of derivatives designated in not designated in hedge accounting hedge accounting 1 January 2015 relationships relationships 31 December 2015 m m m m Currency swaps 6.8 3.6 10.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts 11.6 0.1 15.9 4.4 4.8 3.7 15.9 14.8 The fair value of financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss is 0.6m 2015: 2.4m and relates to derivatives that are not designated in hedge accounting relationships.
The fair value of the derivatives and their credit risk adjusted fair value are not materially different, and are approximately equal to the amount contractually payable at maturity due to the short tenor of the instruments.
32 b Financial risk The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that financial and non-financial risks are monitored and managed within acceptable and known parameters.
The Board delegates authority to the executive team to manage financial risks.
The Groups treasury function acts as a service centre and operates within clearly defined guidelines and policies that are approved by the Board.
The guidelines and policies define the financial risks to be managed, specify the objectives in managing these risks, delegate responsibilities to those managing the risks and establish a control framework to regulate treasury activities to minimise operational risk.
32 c Liquidity risk i Credit facilities The Group maintains committed credit facilities to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to maintain its ongoing operations.
As at 31December, the Groups committed bank credit facilities and corresponding borrowings were as follows: Utilised for Total facility Amount Drawn bonding facility available 2016 2016 2016 2016 Currency m m m m Syndicated revolving credit facility Sterling 480.0 480.0 Utilised for Total facility Amount Drawn bonding facility available 2015 2015 2015 2015 Currency m m m m Syndicated revolving credit facility Sterling 480.0 9.0 471.0 188 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements On 31 March 2016, 368m of the Groups 480m revolving credit facility was extended to April 2020.
The remaining 112m matures in April 2019.
In addition to the banking facility the Group has outstanding US private placements of 290.2m which will be repaid as bullet repayments between 2018 and 2024.
In addition to the bank and private placement facilities the Group has a 30.0m receivables financing facility 2015: 30.0m of which 7.7m 2015: 30.0m was drawn at year end.
ii Maturity of financial liabilities The Groups financial liabilities will be settled on both a net and a gross basis over the remaining period between the balance sheet date and the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
On demand or Between one Between two After within one year and two years and five years five years Total At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Trade payables note 26 84.7 84.7 Obligations under finance leases note 27 13.1 8.9 7.9 29.9 Loans note 28 9.7 34.2 139.5 118.7 302.1 Future loan interest 15.0 14.2 35.9 12.4 77.5 Derivatives settled on gross basis: Outflow 392.0 25.8 17.8 435.6 Inflow 396.9 34.3 23.1 454.3 117.6 48.8 178.0 131.1 475.5 Loans are stated gross of capitalised finance costs.
On demand or Between one Between two After within one year and two years and five years five years Total At 31 December 2015 m m m m m Trade payables note 26 93.6 93.6 Obligations under finance leases note 27 17.0 13.1 15.6 0.6 46.3 Loans note 28 132.2 64.9 187.6 384.7 Future loan interest 14.6 12.6 33.1 19.1 79.4 Derivatives settled on gross basis: Outflow 291.8 3.6 67.2 362.6 Inflow 298.8 3.7 75.2 377.7 250.4 25.6 105.6 207.3 588.9 Loans are stated gross of capitalised finance costs.
Gross cash flows in the table above relating to forward foreign exchange contracts total 394.6m inflows and 390.1m outflows on demand or within one year and nil inflows and nil outflows between one and two years 2015: 274.0m inflow and 269.7m outflow on demand or within one year and 0.7m inflows and 0.7m outflows between one and two years.
Total loans on demand or within one year for the Group amount to 9.7m 2015: 132.2m at December 2016 of which 9.7m 2015: 132.2m is included above and nil 2015: nil is classified as held for sale.
189 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued 32 d Foreign exchange risk i Transactional It is the Groups policy to hedge material transactional exposures using forward foreign exchange contracts to fix the functional currency value of non-functional currency cash flows.
At 31 December 2016, there were no material unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or highly probable forecasttransactions.
ii Translational Where possible the Group will raise external funding to match the currency profile of its foreign operations, in order to mitigate translation exposure.
If matched funding is not possible, currency derivatives may be used to protect against movements in foreign exchange.
iii Hedge accounting For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Page 151 details the Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
At 31 December 2016, the Group held cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges against $69.5m of the US Dollar private placements.
Fixed interest cash flows denominated in US Dollars are exchanged for fixed interest cash flows denominated in Sterling.
The profile of these cross currency swaps held by the Group in the current and prior year is as follows: 2016 Receivable 2015 Receivable Notional US Dollar Payable Sterling Notional US Dollar interest Payable Sterling amount interest rate interest rate amount rate interest rate Maturity US Dollar m % % US Dollar m % % May 2016 31.5 3.6 4.3 May 2018 41.0 4.4 4.9 63.0 4.4 4.9 October 2019 28.5 3.8 4.1 44.1 3.8 4.1 The Group also held a number of forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
These derivatives are hedging highly probable forecast foreign currency trade payments in the UK business.
The net notional amounts are summarised by currency below: 2016 2015 m m Sterling 7.0 10.8 US Dollar 3.2 Euro 4.2 11.0 All derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are highly effective and as at 31 December 2016 a net fair value loss of 0.5m 2015: 2.7m has been deferred in the hedging reserve.
During the course of the year to 31 December 2016, 3.4m 2015: 0.6m of fair value gains were transferred to the hedging reserve and 1.1m 2015: 2.8m reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
iv Currency sensitivity The Groups currency exposures in respect of monetary items at 31 December 2016 that result in net currency gains and losses in the income statement and equity arise principally from movement in US Dollar and Euro exchange rates.
The impact of a 10% movement is summarised below: Pre-tax profits Equity Pre-tax profits Equity gain loss gain loss gain loss gain loss 2016 2016 2015 2015 m m m m US Dollar 0.1 0.3 0.7 Euro 0.5 1.0 0.1 0.5 0.3 0.3 190 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 32 e Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to minimise the impact of interest rate volatility on earnings to provide an appropriate level of certainty to cost of funds.
Exposure to interest rate risk arises principally on changes to US Dollar and Sterling interest rates.
i Interest rate management An analysis of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk is set out below: Weighted Weighted Floating Fixed average Floating Fixed average rate rate interest rate rate rate interest rate 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Financial assets m m % m m % Cash and cash equivalents 177.8 323.6 Other loan receivables 0.5 22.4 7.0 0.4 19.5 7.0 178.3 22.4 324.0 19.5 Weighted Weighted Floating Fixed average Floating Fixed average rate rate interest rate rate rate interest rate 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Financial liabilities m m % m m % Non recourse Sterling loans Sterling loans US Dollar loans 290.2 5.2 374.6 5.10 Other loans 11.8 10.1 11.8 290.2 10.1 374.6 Total cash and cash equivalents held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amount to 177.8m 2015: 328.8m and include 177.8m 2015: 323.6m shown above and nil 2015: 5.2m included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Total floating rate and fixed rate loans held by the Group at 31 December 2016 amount to 11.8m 2015: 10.1m and 290.2m 2015: 374.6m respectively and include 11.8m 2015: 10.1m and 290.2m 2015: 374.6m shown above and nil 2015: nil and nil 2015: nil included within amounts held for sale on the balance sheet.
Exposure to interest rate fluctuations is mitigated through the issuance of fixed rate debt and the use of interest rate derivatives.
Excluded from the above analysis is 28.2m 2015: 43.8m of amounts payable under finance leases, which are subject to fixed rates of interest.
ii Interest rate sensitivity The effect of a 100 basis point increase in LIBOR rates on the net financial liability position at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase in pre-tax profit for the year to 31 December 2016 of 1.7m 2015: decrease in pre-tax loss of 3.2m.
32 f Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty could default on its contractual obligations.
In this regard, the Groups principal exposure is to cash and cash equivalents, derivative transactions and trade receivables.
The Groups trade receivables credit risk is relatively low given that a high proportion of our customer base are Government bodies with strong sovereign, or sovereign like, credit ratings.
However, where the assessed credit worthiness of a customer, Government or nongovernment, falls below that considered acceptable, appropriate measures are taken to mitigate against the risk of contractual default using instruments such as credit guarantees.
The Groups treasury function only transacts with counterparties that comply with Board policy.
The credit risk is measured by way of a counterparty credit rating from any two recognised rating agencies.
Pre-approved limits are set based on a rating matrix and exposures monitored accordingly.
The Group also employs the use of set-off rights in some agreements.
The Groups policy is to provide guarantees for joint ventures and associates only to the relevant proportion of support provided by the partners.
At 31 December 2016, the Company has issued guarantees in respect of certain joint ventures and associates as per note 31.
191 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued 32 g Capital risk The Boards objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Groups strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the portfolio through mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
In doing so the Board seeks to manage funding and liquidity risk, optimise shareholder return and maintain an implied investment grade credit position.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Board reviews and approves at least annually a treasury policy document which covers, inter alia, funding and liquidity risk, capital structure and risk management.
This policy details targets for committed funding headroom, diversification of committed funding and debt maturity profile.
The Group plans to maintain sufficient funds and distributable reserves to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders.
The following table summarises the capital of the Group: 2016 2015 m m Cash and cash equivalents 177.8 323.6 Loans 277.0 362.0 Obligations under finance leases 28.2 43.8 Equity 398.8 282.1 Capital 526.2 364.3 33.
Retirement benefit schemes 33 a Defined benefit schemes i Characteristics and risks The Group contributes to defined benefit schemes for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in the UK and Europe.
The normal contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are 9.7m 2016: 11.9m.
Among our non contract specific schemes, the largest is the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of this scheme was undertaken as at 5 April 2015 and resulted in an actuarially assessed deficit of 4.0m.
The assets of the funded schemes are held independently of the Groups assets in separate trustee administered funds.
The trustees of the pension fund are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The trustees of the pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
The Groups major schemes are valued by independent actuaries annually using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method.
This reflects service rendered by employees to the dates of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates used in determining the present value of benefits, projected rates of salary growth, and life expectancy of pension plan members.
Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds in the country concerned.
Pension assets and liabilities in different defined benefit schemes are not offset unless the Group has a legally enforceable right to use the surplus in one scheme to settle obligations in the other scheme and intends to exercise this right.
The schemes typically expose the Group to actuarial risks such as those set out below: Investment risk.
The present value of the defined benefit schemes liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to high quality corporate bond yields and therefore if the return on plan assets is below this rate, a deficit will be created.
A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the scheme liability but this will be partially offset by an increase in the return of the plans debt investments.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
The present value of the defined benef it scheme liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participants, as such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
192 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The defined benefit schemes are grouped together as follows: Contract specific.
These are pre-funded defined benefit schemes.
The Group has obligations to contribute variable amounts to the pension schemes over the terms of the related contracts.
At rebid, any deficit or surplus would be expected to transfer to the next contractor.
The Group has recognised as a liability the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contracts with a corresponding amount recognised as intangible assets at the start of the contracts.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of the pension obligations have been recognised in the SOCI.
The intangible assets are amortised over the term of the contracts.
Under contractual arrangements the Group sponsors a section of an industry wide defined benefit scheme, the Railways Pension Scheme RPS, paying contributions in accordance with a Schedule of Contributions.
There is no residual liability to fund a deficit at the end of the franchise period any costs are shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the members.
The Group also makes contributions under Admitted Body status to a number of sections of the Local Government Pension Scheme for the period to the end of the relevant customer contracts.
The Group will only participate in the Local Government Pension Schemes for a finite period up to the end of the contracts.
The Group is required to pay regular contributions as decided by the respective Scheme Actuary and as detailed in each schemes Schedule of Contributions.
In addition, the Group may be required to pay some or all of any deficit as determined by the respective Scheme Actuary that is remaining at the end of the contract.
In respect of this, the Group recognises a sufficient level of provision in these financial statements based on the IAS 19 valuation at the reporting date and contractual obligations.
These do not relate to any specific contract and consist of two pre-funded defined benefit schemes and an unfunded defined benefit scheme.
Any liabilities arising are recognised in full and liabilities in relation to unfunded scheme amounts to 0.2m 2015: 0.3m.
The unfunded scheme is the only non UK scheme.
The funding policy for the pre-funded schemes is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the actuary, as will achieve 100% funding on a projected salary basis.
One of these schemes is SPLAS and the other is another section of the RPS.
ii Partial settlement of SPLAS in the year Following the finalisation of the Revised Fair Deal a number of employees are being transferred from SPLAS back to the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme.
This transfer was finalised in December 2016 at which point all obligations of SPLAS to pay retirement benefits for these individuals were eliminated and as a result a settlement charge of 10.7m arose, which was treated as an exceptional item in the year.
The final administrative process and payment completed in January 2017 and as result the related assets and liabilities are retained in the balance sheet values disclosed in section iv below.
iii Balance sheet values The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 December are: Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2016 2016 2016 m m m Scheme assets at fair value Equities 3.3 43.3 46.6 Bonds except LDI 0.7 20.2 20.9 Liability driven investments LDI 1,390.6 1,390.6 Gilts 72.4 72.4 Property 0.6 0.6 Cash and other 1.2 4.2 5.4 Annuity policies 20.0 20.0 Fair value of scheme assets 5.8 1,550.7 1,556.5 Present value of scheme liabilities 12.0 1,418.0 1,430.0 Net amount recognised 6.2 132.7 126.5 Franchise adjustment 3.7 3.7 Members share of deficit 2.5 2.5 Net retirement benefit asset 132.7 132.7 Net pension liability 17.7 17.7 Net pension asset 150.4 150.4 Deferred tax liabilities 17.6 17.6 Net retirement benefit asset after tax 115.1 115.1 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
193 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 33 a Defined benefit schemes continued iii Balance sheet values continued Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2015 2015 2015 m m m Scheme assets at fair value Equities 2.8 39.1 41.9 Bonds except LDI 0.3 0.3 Liability driven investments LDI 1,144.4 1,144.4 Gilts 68.1 68.1 Property 0.6 0.6 Cash and other 0.9 30.7 31.6 Annuity policies 22.0 22.0 Fair value of scheme assets 4.6 1,304.3 1,308.9 Present value of scheme liabilities 7.7 1,188.7 1,196.4 Net amount recognised 3.1 115.6 112.5 Franchise adjustment 1.9 1.9 Members share of deficit 1.2 1.2 Net retirement benefit asset 115.6 115.6 Net pension liability 11.5 11.5 Net pension asset 127.1 127.1 Deferred tax liabilities 20.8 20.8 Net retirement benefit asset after tax 94.8 94.8 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
As required by IAS 19, the Group has considered the extent to which the pension plan assets should be classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13.
Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets.
Annuity policies and property assets can be classified as Level 3 instruments, and LDIs are classified as Level 2.
SPLAS has a Liability Driven Investment LDI strategy which aims to reduce volatility risk by better matching assets to liabilities.
The main asset classes that make up the LDI investments are gilts and corporate bonds with inflation and interest swap overlays.
The value of these investments vary in line with gilt yields, which has dropped from 1.75% p. a. to 2.55% p. a. during 2016 resulting in a decrease in these assets.
In addition, LDI assets were transferred to a separate gilt portfolio in late December to back a longevity swap.
The decrease in the value of LDI investments was less than the increase in scheme liabilities and the increase in gilt yields was less than the fall in yields of high quality corporate bonds resulting in a decrease in the surplus in the year.
194 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements iv Values recognised in total comprehensive income in the year The amounts recognised in the financial statements for the year are analysed as follows: Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2016 2016 2016 m m m Recognised in the income statement Current service cost employer 0.4 7.4 7.8 Past service cost 0.4 0.4 Curtailment loss recognised 1.9 1.9 Administrative expenses and taxes 5.4 5.4 Recognised in arriving at operating profit 0.4 11.3 11.7 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.1 49.0 49.1 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 0.1 Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 0.2 44.3 44.5 Finance income 4.7 4.7 Included within the SOCI Actual return on scheme assets 0.9 285.2 286.1 Less: interest income on scheme assets 0.2 49.0 49.2 0.7 236.2 236.9 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 26.2 26.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 3.5 279.3 282.8 Effect of experience adjustments 28.7 28.7 Remeasurements recognised in the SOCI 2.8 11.8 9.0 Change in franchise adjustment 1.7 1.7 Change in members share 1.2 1.2 Actuarial losses on reimbursable rights 2.9 2.9 Total pension gain recognised in the SOCI 0.1 11.8 11.9 195 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 33 a Defined benefit schemes continued iv Values recognised in total comprehensive income in the year continued Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2015 2015 2015 m m m Recognised in the income statement Current service cost employer 1.5 8.4 9.9 Past service cost 0.4 0.4 Settlement gain recognised 3.3 3.3 Administrative expenses and taxes 4.6 4.6 Recognised in arriving at operating profit 1.8 13.4 11.6 Interest income on scheme assets employer 1.1 48.6 49.7 Interest on franchise adjustment Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 1.2 43.6 44.8 Finance income 0.1 5.0 4.9 Included within the SOCI Actual return on scheme assets 1.3 18.5 17.2 Less: interest income on scheme assets 1.1 48.6 49.7 0.2 67.1 66.9 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 0.2 0.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 1.5 42.7 44.2 Effect of experience adjustments 0.5 6.6 7.1 Remeasurements recognised in the SOCI 2.2 18.0 15.8 Change in franchise adjustment 0.1 0.1 Change in members share 0.3 0.3 Actuarial losses on reimbursable rights 0.4 0.4 Total pension loss gain recognised in the SOCI 1.8 18.0 16.2 196 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Changes in the fair value of scheme liabilities are analysed as follows: Contract Non contract specific specific Total m m m At 1 January 2015 161.3 1,231.3 1,392.6 Current service cost employer 1.5 8.4 9.9 Current service cost employee 0.2 0.2 Past service costs 0.4 0.4 Scheme participants contributions 0.3 0.6 0.9 Interest cost employer 1.2 43.6 44.8 Interest cost employee 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 0.8 46.5 47.3 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 0.2 0.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 1.5 42.7 44.2 Effect of experience adjustments 0.5 6.6 7.1 Arising on acquisition 7.8 7.8 Plan settlements 34.4 34.4 Disposal of scheme 127.5 127.5 At 31 December 2015 7.7 1,188.7 1,196.4 At 1 January 2016 7.7 1,188.7 1,196.4 Current service cost employer 0.4 7.4 7.8 Current service cost employee 0.3 0.3 Past service costs 0.4 0.4 Scheme participants contributions 0.5 0.5 Interest cost employer 0.2 44.3 44.5 Interest cost employee 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 0.1 45.9 46.0 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 26.2 26.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 3.5 279.3 282.8 Effect of experience adjustments 28.7 28.7 Plan curtailments 1.9 1.9 At 31 December 2016 12.1 1,417.9 1,430.0 197 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 33 a Defined benefit schemes continued iv Values recognised in total comprehensive income in the year continued Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are analysed as follows: Contract Non contract specific specific Total m m m At 1 January 2015 134.4 1,361.8 1,496.2 Interest income on scheme assets employer 1.0 48.6 49.6 Interest income on scheme assets employee Administrative expenses and taxes 4.5 4.5 Employer contributions 0.6 11.5 12.1 Contributions by employees 0.3 0.6 0.9 Benefits paid 0.8 46.5 47.3 Return on scheme assets less interest income 0.3 67.2 66.9 Arising on acquisitions 4.5 4.5 Plan settlements 31.0 31.0 Eliminated on disposal of a pension scheme 104.7 104.7 At 31 December 2015 4.6 1,304.3 1,308.9 At 1 January 2016 4.6 1,304.3 1,308.9 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.1 49.0 49.1 Interest income on scheme assets employee 0.1 0.1 Administrative expenses and taxes 5.4 5.4 Employer contributions 0.3 11.9 12.2 Contributions by employees 0.2 0.5 0.7 Benefits paid 0.1 45.9 46.0 Return on scheme assets less interest income 0.7 236.2 236.9 At 31 December 2016 5.9 1,550.6 1,556.5 Changes in the franchise adjustment is analysed as follows: Total m At 1 January 2015 22.9 Taken to SOCI 0.1 Arising on acquisition of scheme 2.0 Eliminated on disposal of scheme 22.9 At 31 December 2015 1.9 At 1 January 2016 1.9 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 Taken to SOCI 1.7 At 31 December 2016 3.7 v Actuarial assumptions The average duration of the benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 17.7 years 2015: 16.7 years.
Assumptions in respect of the expected return on scheme assets are required when calculating the franchise adjustment for the contractspecific plans.
These assumptions are based on market expectations of returns over the life of the related obligation.
Due consideration has been given to current market conditions as at 31 December 2016 in respect to inflation, interest, bond yields and equity performance when selecting the expected return on assets assumptions.
The expected yield on bond investments with fixed interest rates is derived from their market value.
The yield on equity investments contains an additional premium an equity risk premium to compensate investors for the additional anticipated risks of holding this type of investment, when compared to bond yields.
Management have concluded that an appropriate equity risk premium is 4.6% 2015: 4.6%.
198 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The overall expected return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected returns for the principal asset categories held by the scheme.
2016 2015 Main assumptions % % Rate of salary increases 2.80 2.80 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.30 CPI and 3.30 RPI 2.00 CPI and 3.00 RPI Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.30 CPI and 3.30 RPI 2.10 CPI and 3.10 RPI Inflation assumption 2.30 CPI and 3.30 RPI 2.10 CPI and 3.10 RPI Discount rate 2.70 3.80 2016 2015 Post retirement mortality years years Current pensioners at 65 male 22.5 22.6 Current pensioners at 65 female 25.0 25.1 Future pensioners at 65 male 24.2 24.4 Future pensioners at 65 female 26.9 27.1 Management considers the significant actuarial assumptions with regards to the determination of the defined benefit obligation to be the discount rate, inflation, the rate of salary increases and mortality.
Sensitivity analysis is provided below, based on reasonably possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, assuming all other assumptions are held constant.
The sensitivities have been derived in the same manner as the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2016 where the defined benefit obligation is estimated using the Projected Unit Credit method.
Under this method each participants benefits are attributed to years of service, taking into consideration future salary increases and the schemes benefit allocation formula.
Thus, the estimated total pension to which each participant is expected to become entitled at retirement is broken down into units, each associated with a year of past or future credited service.
The defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2016 is calculated on the actuarial assumptions agreed as at that date.
The sensitivities are calculated by changing each assumption in turn following the methodology above with all other things held constant.
The change in the defined benefit obligation from updating the single assumption represents the impact of that assumption on the calculation of the defined benefit obligation.
2016 2015 m m Discount rate 0.5% increase 116.5 98.6 Discount rate 0.5% decrease 132.5 111.3 Inflation 0.5% increase 106.1 97.4 Inflation 0.5% decrease 87.6 88.2 Rate of salary increase 0.5% increase 7.8 10.4 Rate of salary increase 0.5% decrease 7.4 10.0 Mortality one year age rating 44.2 28.7 Management acknowledges that the method used of presuming that all other assumptions remaining constant has inherent limitation given that it is more likely for a combination of changes, but highlights the value of each individual risk and is therefore a suitable basis for providing this analysis.
33 b Defined contribution schemes The Group paid employer contributions of 73.9m 2015: 75.7m into UK and other defined contribution schemes and foreign state pension schemes.
Serco accounts for certain pre-funded defined benefit schemes relating to contracts as defined contribution schemes because the contributions are fixed until the end of the current concession and at rebid any surplus or deficit would transfer to the next contractor.
Cash contributions are recognised as pension costs and no asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet.
199 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Share capital Number Number 2016 2016 2015 2015 Issued and fully paid m millions m millions 1,098,559,781 2015: 549,265,547 ordinary shares of 2p each at 1 January 22.0 1,098.6 11.0 549.3 Issued on the exercise of share options and the Rights Issue 11.0 549.3 1,098,564,237 2015: 1,098,559,781 ordinary shares of 2p each at 31 December 22.0 1,098.6 22.0 1,098.6 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Share premium account 2016 2015 m m At 1 January and 31 December 327.9 327.9 36.
Reserves 36 a Retirement benefit obligations reserve The retirement benefit obligations reserve represents the actuarial gains and losses recognised in respect of annual actuarial valuations for defined benefit retirement schemes, the fair value adjustments on reimbursable rights and the related movements in deferred tax balances.
36 b Share based payment reserve The share based payment reserve represents credits relating to equity-settled share based payment transactions and any gain or loss on the exercise of share options satisfied by own shares.
36 c Own shares reserve The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Serco Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Serco Group plc Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT to satisfy options under the Groups share options schemes.
The market value of shares held by the ESOT as at 31 December 2016 was 14.1m 2015: 10.1m.
36 d Hedging and translation reserve The hedging and translation reserve represents foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the Groups overseas operations and movements relating to cash flow hedges.
Hedging Translation reserve reserve Total m m m At 1 January 2015 5.0 13.9 18.9 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 2.2 41.0 38.8 At 1 January 2016 2.8 54.9 57.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 2.3 80.0 82.3 At 31 December 2016 0.5 25.1 24.6 200 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 37.
Share based payment expense The Group recognised the following expenses related to equity-settled share based payment transactions: 2016 2015 m m Long-term Incentive Scheme and Plan Performance Share Plan 8.9 9.9 Deferred Bonus Plan 0.8 0.3 Sharesave 2012 0.4 9.7 9.8 Executive Option Plan EOP Options granted under the EOP may be exercised after the third anniversary of grant, dependent upon the achievement of a financial performance target over three years.
The options are granted at market value and awards made to eligible employees are based on between 50% and 100% of salary as at 31 December prior to grant.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options may be forfeited if the eligible employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Details of the movement in all EOP options are as follows: Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2016 2016 2015 2015 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 187 3.77 336 4.16 Rights Issue adjustment 79 4.16 Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year 94 3.39 228 4.48 Outstanding at 31 December 93 4.16 187 3.77 Of these options, 92,540 2015: 187,308 were exercisable at the end of the year, with a weighted average exercise price of 4.16 2015: 3.77.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2016 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.87 years 2015: 1.6 years.
The exercise prices for options outstanding at 31 December 2016 ranged from 3.88 to 4.55 2015: 3.39 to 4.55.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise approximates to the weighted average share price during the year, which was 1.13 2015: 3.30.
The fair value of options granted under the EOP is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice model.
The Binomial Lattice model is considered to be most appropriate for valuing options granted under this scheme as it allows exercise over a longer period of time between the vesting date and the expiry date.
There were no new options granted under Executive Option Plan during the year and all shares are now vested.
There were no new options granted under Executive Option Plan during the year.
201 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37.
Share based payment expense continued Executive Option Plan EOP continued Long-Term Incentive Scheme LTIS and Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards made to eligible employees under the above schemes are structured as options with a zero exercise price.
The extent to which an award vests and therefore becomes exercisable is measured by reference to the growth in the Groups earnings per share EPS or total shareholder return TSR over the performance period or service period conditions.
Details of the movement in all LTIS and LTIP options are as follows: Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2016 2016 2015 2015 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 240 Nil 276 Nil Rights Issue adjustment Nil 64 Nil Exercised during the year 54 Nil 70 Nil Lapsed during the year 70 Nil 30 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 116 Nil 240 Nil Of these options, 115,818 2015: 240,058 were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2016 had a weighted average contractual life of 0.65 years 2015: 1.3 years.
There were no new options granted under either LTIS or LTIP during the year.
Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, eligible employees have been granted options with an exercise price of two pence.
Awards vest after the performance period of three to five years and are subject to the achievement of four performance measures with the exception of new non-performance awards granted in 2014.
These non-performance options are only subject to continued employment on vesting dates which vary from six months to three years after the grant dates.
On the performance related awards, the primary performance measure is TSR and the second performance measure is based on EPS growth.
Two additional measures on new grants in 2014 were Absolute Share Price and Strategic Objectives.
Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2016 2016 2015 2015 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 23,771 0.02 10,743 0.02 Granted during the year 18,419 0.02 15,053 0.02 Rights Issue adjustment 2,565 0.02 Exercised during the year 666 0.02 654 0.02 Lapsed during the year 7,039 0.02 3,936 0.02 Outstanding at 31 December 34,485 0.02 23,771 0.02 Of these options, 133,470 2015: 207,643 were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2016 had a weighted average contractual life of 7.5 years 2015: 7.8 years.
In the year, eight grants were made, of which three were non-performance conditional share awards.
The remaining five performance based awards are with Earnings per Share EPS, Total Shareholder Return TSR and Return on Invested Capital ROIC performance conditions each attached to 33.3% of options.
The options subject to market-based performance conditions such as the TSR condition for these awards, were valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation model.
The options subject only to non-market based performance conditions such as the EPS and ROIC conditions a Black-Scholes model has been used.
This approach has also been used for the Awards made with no performance conditions attached to them.
202 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The Monte Carlo Simulation model is considered to be the most appropriate for valuing options granted under schemes where there are changes in performance conditions by which the options are measured, such as for the Absolute Share Price or TSR based awards.
The Monte Carlo and Black-Sholes Models used the following inputs: 2016 Weighted average share price 0.98 Weighted average exercise price 0.02 Expected volatility 47.3 Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 0.45% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The weighted average fair value of options granted under this scheme in the year is 0.89 2015: 1.20.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, eligible employees are entitled to use up to 50% of their earned annual bonus to purchase shares in the Group at market price.
Provided they remain in employment for this period, the shares are retained for that period and the performance measures have been met, the Group will make a matching share award, up to a maximum of two times the gross bonus deferred.
Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2016 2016 2015 2015 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 906 Nil 351 Nil Granted during the year 2,186 Nil 759 Nil Rights issue adjustment Nil 83 Nil Lapsed during the year 147 Nil 287 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 2,945 Nil 906 Nil None of these options were exercisable at the end of the year 2015: none.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2016 had a weighted average contractual life of 2.10 years 2014: 2.08 years.
There were 2,185,750 new options granted under the Deferred Bonus Plan in the year, with 100% of the deferred bonus subject to the same EPS performance conditions as the PSP.
The portion subject to EPS performance conditions was deemed to have a fair value equal to their face value less the present value of any dividend payments not received over the vesting period.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The assumptions for options granted during the year with EPS performance conditions are: 2016 Weighted average share price 0.95 Weighted average exercise price Nil Expected volatility 47.4 Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 0.64% The weighted average fair value of options granted under this scheme in the year is 0.95 2015: 1.36.
203 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37.
Share based payment expense continued Sharesave 2012 The Sharesave 2012 scheme provides for a purchase price equal to the daily average market price on the date of grant less 10%.
Theoptions can be exercised for a period of six months following their vesting.
Details of the movement in Sharesave 2012 options are asfollows: Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2015 2016 2015 2015 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 2,051 5.14 2,875 5.14 Exercised during the year 5.14 Rights issue adjustment 504 5.14 Lapsed during the year 2,051 5.14 1,328 5.14 Outstanding at 31 December 2,051 5.14 Of these options, none 2015: none were exercisable at the end of the year.
There were no outstanding options at 31 December 2016 2015: weighted average contractual life of 0.4 years.
Given that options granted under the Sharesave plan can be exercised at any time after vesting, management consider the Binomial Lattice model to be appropriate to value the options granted under this scheme.
The Binomial Lattice model allows exercise over a window in time, from vesting date to expiry date and assumes option holders make economically rational exercise decisions.
There were no new options granted under Sharesave Plan in the year.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint venture undertakings and associates are disclosed below.
Transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with joint ventures and associates: Current Non-current outstanding at outstanding at Transactions 31 December 31 December 2016 2016 2016 m m m Sale of goods and services Joint ventures 0.5 0.1 Associates 6.2 0.5 Other Dividends received joint ventures 20.4 Dividends received associates 19.6 Receivable from consortium for tax joint ventures 3.2 7.7 Total 49.9 8.3 AWE Management Limited AWEML was formerly a joint venture but in August 2016 there was a change in the AWE Management Limited shareholding structure, with the Groups shareholding reducing from 33.3% to 24.5% by way of a return of shares and Lockheed Martin taking a majority holding.
Subsequent to the change in share ownership AWEML has been accounted for as an associate as we continue to have significant influence.
In the prior year, the AWE transactions and outstanding balances were disclosed within joint ventures below.
204 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Joint venture receivable and loan amounts outstanding have arisen from transactions undertaken during the general course of trading, are unsecured, and will be settled in cash.
Interest arising on loans is based on LIBOR, or its equivalent, with an appropriate margin.
No guarantee has been given or received.
The only loan amounts owed by joint ventures or associates related to a single entity which have been provided for in full see note 11.
Current Non-current outstanding at outstanding at Transactions 31 December 31 December 2015 2015 2015 m m m Sale of goods and services Joint ventures 6.1 0.6 Other Dividends received joint ventures 32.5 Loans and other receivables joint ventures 0.8 7.2 Receivable from consortium for tax joint ventures 4.2 9.3 Total 42.8 10.7 7.2 Remuneration of key management personnel The Directors of Serco Group plc had no material transactions with the Group during the year other than service contracts and Directors liability insurance.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 11.9 8.4 Share based payment expense 4.7 1.1 16.6 9.5 The key management personnel comprise the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee 2016: 20 individuals, 2015: 19 individuals.
Aggregate directors remuneration The total amounts for directors remuneration in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 5.6 3.7 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 5.6 4.7 11.2 8.4 None of the Directors are members of the companys defined benefit pension scheme.
One director is a member of the money purchase scheme.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 125.
205 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 39.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities 2015 2016 Before Before 2016 exceptional 2015 2015 exceptional Exceptional 2016 items Exceptional Total items items Total restated items restated Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Operating profit loss for the year continuing operations 98.5 56.3 42.2 106.1 109.9 3.8 Operating loss profit for the year discontinued operations 3.3 14.2 17.5 26.5 77.6 51.1 Operating profit loss for the year 95.2 70.5 24.7 132.6 187.5 54.9 Adjustments for: Share of profits in joint ventures and associates 33.4 33.4 37.0 37.0 Share based payment expense 9.7 9.7 9.8 9.8 Exceptional impairment of goodwill 17.8 17.8 153.4 153.4 Exceptional impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 Exceptional impairment of intangible assets 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Impairment and write down of intangible assets 0.7 0.7 11.5 11.5 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.7 2.1 2.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 24.8 24.8 28.9 28.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 26.2 26.2 29.0 29.0 Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.1 0.1 2.8 2.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.1 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.8 0.8 1.5 1.5 Non cash R&D expenditure offset against intangible assets 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.8 Decrease in provisions 118.4 1.1 119.5 116.0 9.5 125.5 Other non cash movements 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.1 Total non cash items 54.5 16.1 38.4 32.4 141.6 109.2 Operating cash inflow outflow before movements in working capital 7.3 54.4 47.1 63.2 45.9 17.3 Decrease in inventories 1.3 1.3 5.6 5.6 Decrease in receivables 59.0 13.9 72.9 20.6 20.6 Decrease in payables 84.0 0.6 83.4 48.8 10.7 59.5 Movements in working capital 23.7 14.5 9.2 22.6 10.7 33.3 Cash generated by operations 16.4 39.9 56.3 40.6 56.6 16.0 Tax paid 5.6 5.6 2.7 2.7 Non cash R&D expenditure 0.4 0.4 0.7 0.7 Net cash outflow inflow from operating activities 22.4 39.9 62.3 37.2 56.6 19.4 Operating Profit has been restated following the change in accounting policy to include foreign exchange movements on investment and financing arrangements in net finance costs.
Additions to property, plant and equipment during the year amounting to 0.5m 2015: 5.2m were financed by new finance leases.
206 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 40.
Assets held for sale As part of the Strategy Review, certain assets and liabilities were designated as non core and plans were put in place to dispose of them.
As at 31 December 2016 the only business remaining to be sold is an onshore private sector BPO business, which is expected to be sold in 2016.
It is not expected that any of the assets or liabilities will transfer to the purchaser on disposal based on the current expected deal structure and therefore the net assets transferred out of held for sale at 31 December 2016.
The balances included as held for sale are as follows: At 31 December At 31 December 2016 2015 Note m m Assets Goodwill 19 7.8 Other intangible assets 20 0.4 Property, plant and equipment 21 0.9 Other non-current assets 23 0.2 Current tax 4.7 Cash and cash equivalents 25 5.2 Other current assets 23 20.6 Assets classified as held for sale 39.8 Liabilities Other current liabilities 26 7.4 Current tax liabilities 0.1 Provisions 29 24.5 Obligations under finance leases 27 0.5 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 32.5 207
