Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our website Changes of address Our corporate website provides access to share price information To avoid missing important correspondence relating to your as well as sections on managing your shareholding online, shareholding, it is important that you inform our Registrar, corporate governance and other investor relations information.
Equiniti, of your new address as soon as possible.
To access the website, please visit www.
com investors Sharegift If you have a very small shareholding that is uneconomical to sell, you may want to consider donating it to Sharegift Registered Managing your shares online Charity no.
10526886, a charity that specialises in the donation Shareholders can manage their holding online by registering to of small, unwanted shareholdings to good causes.
You can find use our shareholder portal at www.
This service is out more by visiting www.
org or by calling 44 0 207 provided by our Registrar, Equiniti, giving quick and easy access 9303737. to your shareholding, allowing you to manage all aspects of your shareholding online, with a useful FAQ section.
Shareholder queries Our share register is maintained by our Registrar, Equiniti.
Electronic communications We encourage shareholders to consider receiving their Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should communications electronically.
Choosing to receive your contact Equiniti directly using one of the methods listed opposite.
communications electronically means you receive information For more general queries, shareholders can look quickly and securely and allows us to communicate in a more at our website at www.
com investors environmentally friendly and cost-effective way.
You can register for this service online using our share portal at www.
co. uk American Depositary Receipts ADRs Duplicate documents Serco has established a sponsored Level I ADR programme.
Serco ADRs are traded on the US over-the-counter market SCGPY.
Some shareholders find that they receive duplicate documentation due to having more than one account on the share register.
If For queries relating to your ADR holding, please contact our ADR you think you fall into this group and would like to combine your depositary bank, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas.
accounts, please contact our Registrar, Equiniti.
