178 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2016 34.
Contingent liabilities and guarantees continued Contingent liabilities Part of the Groups business is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act CCA, which contains very detailed and highly technical requirements.
The Group continues to commission external reviews of its compliance with the CCA and other consumer regulations.
The Group has identified some areas of potential non-compliance, although these are not considered to be material.
While the Group considers that no material present obligation in relation to non-compliance with the CCA and other consumer regulations is likely, there is a risk that the eventual outcome may differ.
The Groups Consumer Lending Division is exposed to risk under Section 75 CCA, in relation to any misrepresentations or breaches of conduct by suppliers of goods and services to customers where the purchase of those goods and services is financed by the Group.
While the Group would have recourse to the supplier in the event of such liability, if the supplier becomes insolvent then that recourse would have limited value.
During 2016 at least one supplier has become insolvent and therefore the Group may have an increased exposure to customer complaints in relation to such suppliers although any such exposure is not considered to be material.
Earnings per share IAS 33 requires that if the number of ordinary shares increases as a result of a capitalisation, bonus issue or share split then the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share EPS shall be adjusted retrospectively.
The tables below are based on the number of shares in issue: 2016 2015 Pence Pence Earnings per share Basic 25.9 24.1 Diluted 25.5 24.0 Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding own shares held in employee benefit trusts.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by adjusting the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares, which comprise share options granted to employees.
There are no discontinued operations during the period 2015: nil.
Basic EPS computations are based on profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent of 64.8 million 2015: 58.5 million and weighted number of ordinary shares of 250.5 million 2015: 242.3 million.
Diluted EPS computations are based on profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent of 64.8 million 2015: 58.5 million and weighted number of ordinary shares of 253.7 million 2015: 243.9 million.
Ultimate parent company No single entity or individual has a controlling interest in the Company.
The largest company in which the results of the Group are consolidated is that headed by Shawbrook Group plc, incorporated in England and Wales.
No other Financial statements include the results of the Group.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 179 37.
Country-by-country reporting CBCR The Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013 came into effect on 1 January 2014 and place certain reporting obligations on financial institutions that are within the scope of the EU Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV.
The objective of the CBCR requirements is to provide increased transparency regarding the source of the financial institutions income and locations of its operations.
Shawbrook Group plc and its subsidiaries are all UK registered entities except if stated otherwise, the activities of which are disclosed on page 175 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups net operating income, profit before taxation, income tax charge and number of full time equivalent employees were: 2016 2015 Net operating income m 209.6 166.9 Profit before tax m 88.2 70.1 Income tax charge m 23.4 11.6 Tax paid m 20.4 13.8 Average number of employees on a full time equivalent basis 569 514 The Group did not receive any public subsidies.
Post-balance sheet events On 3 March 2017, following share price movement, the Group announced that it was in discussions with Pollen Street Capital Limited Pollen Street and BC Partners LLP BC Partners together the Consortium regarding a possible offer to be made by a new company to be jointly owned by funds managed or advised by Pollen Street and BC Partners for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Shawbrook Group plc the Possible Offer.
Under the terms of the Possible Offer, shareholders would receive 330p per ordinary share in cash.
In addition, shareholders would be entitled to retain the final maiden dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 referred to in this Annual Report & Accounts.
As at the date of publication of this Annual Report & Accounts, the Board had issued a rejection of the Possible Offer.
Discussions with the Consortium were ongoing and there was no certainty either that an offer would be made nor as to the terms of any offer, if made.
There have been no other significant events between 31 December 2016 and the date of approval of the Financial statements which would require a change to or additional disclosure in the Financial statements.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 180 Glossary ALCo Asset and Liability Committee.
Average Principal Employed Calculated as the average of monthly closing loans and advances to customers, net of impairment provision, from the Groups financial reporting and management information systems, including operating leases, which are classified as property, plant and equipment in the Groups statutory accounts.
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards.
Basel III Global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy, stress testing and market and liquidity proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in 2010.
It aims to strengthen regulation, supervision and risk management in the banking sector.
Basis Point bp One hundredth of a percent 0.01%.
It is used in quoting interest rates or yields on securities.
BBA British Bankers Association, the leading trade association for the UK banking sector.
Board The Board of Directors of Shawbrook Group plc.
Buy-to-let Mortgages Buy-to-let mortgages are those mortgages offered to customers purchasing residential property as a rental investment.
Capital Requirements Regulation CRR The European Union has implemented the Basel III capital proposals through the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR and the Capital Requirements Directive CRD, collectively known as CRD IV.
CRD IV was implemented on 1 January 2014.
Code The FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 edition.
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital CET1 The highest quality form of capital under CRD IV that comprises common shares issued and related share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, less specified regulatory adjustments.
Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio CET1 Ratio The Common Equity Tier 1 ratio is calculated as common equity tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets.
Cost of Risk Cost of risk is calculated as impairment losses on financial assets divided by average principal employed.
Cost to Income Ratio Cost to Income Ratio is calculated as administrative expenses plus provisions for liabilities and charges, divided by net operating income.
CRD IV In June 2013, the European Commission published legislation for a Capital Requirements Directive CRD and Capital Requirements Regulations CRR which form the CRD IV package.
The package implements the Basel III proposals in addition to the inclusion of new proposals on sanctions for non-compliance with prudential rules, corporate governance and remuneration.
The rules are implemented in the UK via the PRA policy statement PS7 13 and came into force from 1 January 2014, with certain sections subject to transitional phase in.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 181 Customer Deposits Monies deposited by individuals and companies that are not credit institutions.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities in the Groups Statement of Financial Position.
Customer Loans Loans and advances to customers, net of impairment provision and including operating leases, which are classified as property, plant and equipment in the Groups statutory accounts.
Deferred Tax Assets Income taxes recoverable in future periods as a result of deductible temporary differences temporary differences between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result in tax-deductible amounts in future periods and the carry-forward of tax losses and unused tax credits.
Earnings at Risk EaR Approach set out for the quantification of interest rate risk expressed as the impact of the sensitivity analysis on the change to net interest income.
Effective Interest Rate EIR The effective interest rate method calculates the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability, and allocates the interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset or financial liability.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account all contractual terms of the financial instrument but includes all amounts received or paid that are an integral part of the overall return, direct incremental transaction costs related to the acquisition or issue of a financial instrument and all other premiums and discounts.
Encumbrance The use of assets to secure liabilities, such as by way of a lien or charge.
European Securities & An independent European Supervisory Authority with the remit of enhancing the protection of Market Authority ESMA investors and reinforcing stable and well-functioning financial markets in the European Union.
Expected Loss EL A measure of anticipated loss for exposures captured under an internal ratings based credit risk approach.
The 12 month expected loss amount is the exposure, arising from a potential default of a counterparty, over the next 12 months in respect of the amount expected to be outstanding at default.
Exposure at Default An estimate of the amount expected to be owed by a customer at the time of a customers default.
Fair Value The amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Financial Services Compensation The Financial Services Compensation Scheme is the UKs independent statutory Scheme FSCS compensation fund for customers of authorised financial service firms and pays compensation if a firm is unable to pay claims against it.
The FSCS is funded by management expenses levies and, where necessary, compensation levies on the authorised firms.
Forbearance Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to borrowers financial difficulties.
Forbearance options are determined by assessing the customers personal circumstances.
Full-Time Equivalent FTE A full-time employee is one that works a standard five-day week.
The hours worked by part-time employees are measured against this standard and accumulated along with the number of full-time employees and counted as full-time equivalents.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 182 Glossary continued Funding for Lending Scheme FLS The Bank of England launched the Funding for Lending scheme in 2012 to allow banks and building societies to borrow from the Bank of England at cheaper than market rates for up to four years.
This was designed to increase lending to businesses by lowering interest rates and increasing access to credit.
Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
Gross Yield Gross yield is calculated as the sum of interest and similar income, net income from operating leases, net fee and commission income and fair value gains losses on financial instruments divided by average principal employed.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Impaired Assets Loans that are in arrears or where there is objective evidence of impairment and where the carrying amount of the loan exceeds the expected recoverable amount.
This definition also includes unsecured loans in the Consumer division that are more than 90 days in arrears and carry identified impairment that is calculated on a collective basis.
Impairment Allowance The impairment allowance includes allowances against loans that have been individually impaired and those that are subject to collective impairment.
Instalment credit agreement An instalment credit agreement is an agreement similar in nature to a hire purchase agreement or otherwise known as a rent-to-own agreement.
Interest Rate Risk The risk of a reduction in the present value of the current balance sheet or earnings as a result of adverse movement in interest rates.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment The Groups own assessment, based on Basel III requirements, of the levels of capital that Process ICAAP it needs to hold in respect of its regulatory capital requirements for credit, market and operational risks and for other risks including stress events as they apply on a solo level and on a consolidated level.
Internal Liquidity Adequacy The Groups own assessment of its overall liquidity adequacy and in particular the level Assessment Process ILAAP of liquidity resources it requires to meet its liabilities as they fall due even under stressed conditions, in accordance with the Prudential Regulation Authoritys liquidity rules under PS11 15. International Organization of Securities The international body that brings together the worlds securities regulators and is Consensus IOSCO recognised as the global standard-setter for the securities sector.
IOSCO develops, implements and promotes adherence to internationally recognised standards for securities regulation.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
Leverage Ratio The leverage ratio is calculated Common Equity Tier 1 capital divided by the sum of total assets excluding intangible assets and include adjustments for certain off balance sheet items such as pipeline and undrawn collateral.
Liability yield Liability yield is calculated as interest expense and similar charges divided by average principal employed.
LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate The interest rate participating banks offer to other banks for loans on the London market.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 183 Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR The ratio of the stock of high-quality liquid assets to expected net cash outflows over the following 30 days.
High-quality liquid assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress, and ideally, central bank eligible.
Liquidity Ratio Liquidity ratio is calculated as the liquidity reserve divided by customer deposits.
The liquidity reserve comprises cash and balances at central banks excluding mandatory balances held with central banks, loans and advances to banks, off balance sheet T-Bills but excludes additional available liquidity from pre-positioned assets.
Loan-to-Deposit Ratio Calculated as loans and advances to customers divided by customer deposits.
Loss Emergence Period The loss emergence period is the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss specifically identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate impairment allowance.
Loss Given Default The estimated loss that will arise if a customer defaults.
It is calculated after taking account of credit risk mitigation and includes the cost of recovery.
Management expenses ratio Management expenses ratio is calculated as administrative expenses plus provisions for liabilities and charges, divided by average principal employed.
MLRO A Money Laundering Reporting Officer MLRO is the officer nominated within a firm or practice to make disclosures to the Serious Organised Crime Agency SOCA under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 and the Terrorism Act 2000.
Neither past due nor impaired Loans that are not in arrears and which do not meet the impaired asset definition.
This segment can include assets subject to forbearance solutions.
Net Interest Income The difference between interest received on assets and interest paid on liabilities.
Net Interest Margin NIM Calculated as net operating income divided by average principal employed.
Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR The ratio of Available Stable Funding required to support the assets and activities over the medium term as set out by the Basel III requirements and implemented by the EBA and the PRA NPL Ratio The NPL ratio is calculated by adding past due over 90 days loans and advances to customers and impaired loans and advances to customers and dividing the sum by total gross loans and advances to customers.
NPL Provision Coverage Ratio Calculated as Balance sheet Impairment Provision as a percentage of past due over 90 days loans and advances to customers and impaired loans and advances to customers.
OBR Office for Budget Responsibility.
Past due A loan is considered past due when the borrower has failed to make a payment under the terms of the loan agreement.
This may also include loans past maturity where an outstanding balance exists.
Past due but not impaired Loans past due but not impaired consist predominently of loans in Property Finance and Business Finance that are impaired.
This definition also included unsecured laons in the Consumer Division that are past due but not more than 90 days.
Pillar 1 The part of the Basel framework that sets outs the rules that govern the calculation of Minimum capital requirements for credit, market and operational risks.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 184 Glossary continued Recovery Plan and Resolution Pack The Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive BRRD establishes a common approach to the RP&RP recovery and resolution of banks and investment firms.
The Groups Recovery Plan enables the Board and senior management manage a crisis which may threaten the capital and or liquidity adequacy of the Bank, or its ultimate viability.
The objective of the plan is to put in place measures recovery options to restore capital, liquidity or profitability so that the Bank can operate sustainably and viably.
The Groups Resolution Pack lays out the information required to support effective resolution planning.
The requirements for the Recovery Plan and Resolution Pack are set out in supervisory statement SS18 13 and SS19 13 respectively.
Repurchase Agreements or Repos An agreement where one party, the seller, sells a financial asset to another party, the buyer, at the same time the seller agrees to reacquire and the buyer to resell the asset at a later date.
From the sellers perspective such agreements are repurchase agreements repos and from the buyers perspective they are reverse repurchase agreements reverse repos.
Return on Lending Assets Return on lending assets before tax is calculated as profit loss before taxation divided by average principal employed.
Return on Tangible Equity RoTE Return on tangible equity is calculated as profit for the year attributable to owners divided by average tangible equity.
Average tangible equity is calculated as total equity less intangible assets at the beginning of a period plus total equity less intangible assets at the end of the period, divided by two.
The 2015 opening tangible equity position has been adjusted to include the 82 million of IPO proceeds to enable like for like comparisons.
Risk-weighted Assets A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with PRA rules and are used to assess capital requirements and adequacy under Pillar 1.
Secured Lending Lending on which the borrower uses collateral such as equity in their home.
Standardised Approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit Assessment Institutions ECAI ratings of obligators where available and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational risk capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined percentage charge to the gross income of specified business lines.
Stress Testing Stress and scenario testing is the term used to describe techniques where plausible events are considered as vulnerabilities to ascertain how this will impact the capital or liquidity resources which are required to be held.
Term Funding Scheme TFS The Bank of England launched the Term Funding Scheme in 2016 to allow banks and building societies to borrow from the Bank of England at rates close to Bank Base Rate.
This is designed to increase lending to businesses by lowering interest rates and increasing access to credit.
Tier 1 Capital A measure of banks financial strength defined by the PRA.
It captures Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, but is subject to a deduction in respect of material holdings in financial companies.
Tier 1 Capital Ratio Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Tier 2 Capital A further component of regulatory capital defined by the PRA.
It comprises eligible collective assessed impairment allowances under CRD IV.
Total Capital Ratio TCR The Total Capital Ratio is calculated as total regulatory capital divided by risk-weighted assets.
TNAV Tangible Net Asset Value.
Unencumbered Assets Assets that are readily available to secure funding or to meet collateral requirements, and assets that are not subject to any restrictions but are not readily available for use.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 For further information please visit: investors.
co. uk If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to keep it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Shawbrook Group plc or recycle it.
Designed and produced by: Instinctif Partners www.
com Shawbrook Group plc Lutea House Warley Hill Business Park The Drive Great Warley Brentwood Essex CM13 3BE Company number 07240248 www.
