108 Corporate governance report continued Directors Report continued Change of control Research and development activities The Group is not party to any significant contracts that are subject During the ordinary course of business the Group develops new to change of control provisions in the event of a takeover bid.
products and services within the business units.
There are no agreements between the Group and its Directors Employees or employees providing compensation for loss of office or The Group is committed to being an equal opportunities employer employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
and opposes all forms of discrimination.
Applications from people with disabilities will be considered fairly and if existing employees Significant contracts become disabled, every effort is made to retain them within Details of related party transactions are set out in Note 32 to the the workforce wherever reasonable and practicable.
There are no contracts of signicance in also endeavours to provide equal opportunities in the training, which a Director is interested.
promotion and general career development of disabled employees.
Business activities The Group regularly provides employees with information The Groups business activities, together with the factors of concern to them, which incorporates the Groups current likely to affect its future development and performance and performance and its future aims and strategies.
The Group conducts its summarised financial position are set out on pages 8 to 39 an Annual Employee Survey and uses the results of this survey to of the Strategic report.
improve performance in areas that are important to staff.
A monthly newsletter providing business updates and background information Branches, future developments and financial risk management on the Group is circulated to all staff.
objectives and policies The Group operates in the United Kingdom and has one branch in Employee share schemes Jersey.
Information about future developments, internal control and All employees may participate in the Groups Save as You Earn SAYE financial risk management systems in relation to financial reporting Scheme.
Full details of the Groups employee share schemes are set and financial risk management objectives and policies in relation out on pages 131 to 133. to the use of financial instruments can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report which are incorporated into this Employee benefit trust report by reference: Equiniti Trust Jersey Limited is the trustee of the Shawbrook Group plc Employee benefit Trust, an independent trust, which holds Future developments please refer to the Strategic Report shares for the benefit of employees and former employees of the pages 8 to 39.
Unless otherwise directed by the Group, the trustee has agreed to waive all rights to any dividends which may at any time Internal control and financial risk management systems in relation to be payable on any shares held by the trust.
The trustee has agreed financial reporting please refer to the Corporate governance report to satisfy a number of awards under the employee share plans.
As part of these arrangements the Group funds the trust, from time to time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these Financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to the awards, details of which are set out in Note 27 on pages 151 and 152 use of financial instruments please refer to the Risk management of the Financial statements.
report pages 40 to 56 and Note 29 of the Financial statements.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
