Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Description of Operations form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either ofassets, liabilities and equity and the amounts of revenues and Shire, or the Company is the leading global biotechnology expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under company focused on serving people with rare diseases and different assumptions or conditions.
otherhighly specialized conditions across core therapeutic Consolidation areasincluding Hematology, Genetic Diseases, Neuroscience, The Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the financial Immunology, Internal Medicine, Ophthalmology, and Oncology.
statements of the Company and those of the Companys whollySome of the Companys marketed products include ADVATE owned subsidiaries.
For consolidated entities where the Company ADYNOVATE, VONVENDI and FEIBA for hematology, CINRYZE, owns or is exposed to less than 100 percent of the economics, the ELAPRASE and REPLAGAL for genetic diseases, VYVANSE and Company records net income loss attributable to non-controlling ADDERALL XR for neuroscience, GAMMAGARD and HYQVIA interests in its Consolidated Statements of Operations equal to the forimmunology, LIALDA MEZAVANT and PENTASA for internal percentage of the economic or ownership interest retained in such medicine, XIIDRA for ophthalmology and ONCASPAR and entities by the respective non-controlling parties.
balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
The Company has grown both organically and through acquisition, The Company determines whether to consolidate subsidiaries completing a series of major transactions that have brought based on either the variable interest entity VIE model or the therapeutic, geographic and pipeline growth and diversification.
The Company consolidates a VIE if it is The Company will continue to conduct its own research and determined that the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE.
development R&D focused on rare diseases and other highly In determining whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of specialized conditions, as well as evaluate companies, products an entity, management applies a qualitative approach that and pipeline opportunities that offer a strategic fit and have the determines whether the Company has both 1 the power to direct potential to deliver value to all of the Companys stakeholders: the economically significant activities of the entity and 2 the patients, physicians, policy makers, payers, partners, investors obligation to absorb losses of, or the right to receive benefits from, andemployees.
the entity that could potentially be significant to that entity.
The Company consolidates entities that are not VIEs if it is determined that the Company holds a majority voting interest in the entity.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses theaccounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiary undertakings and control of the subsidiary.
Intercompany balances and transactions theIncome Access Share trust, after elimination of inter-company are eliminated in consolidation.
They have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the Revenue recognition United States of America US GAAP and U. S. Securities and The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following criteria Exchange Commission SEC regulations for annual reporting.
are met: On June 3, 2016, the Company completed its acquisition of there is persuasive evidence an arrangement exists: Baxalta for $32.4 billion, representing the preliminary fair value of delivery has occurred or services have been rendered: purchase consideration.
The Companys Consolidated Financial the price to the customer is fixed or determinable: and Statements include the results of Baxalta from the date of collectibility is reasonably assured.
For further details regarding the acquisition, please Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added refer to Note 4, Business Combinations.
andsimilar taxes and trade discounts.
The Companys principal Due to the Baxalta acquisition, the Company concluded that it was revenue streams and their respective accounting treatments are appropriate to reclassify the Amortization of Acquired Intangibles discussed below: from Selling, General and Administrative SG&A on the Product sales Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Accordingly, the Company Revenues from Product sales are recognized when title and risk of reclassified the Amortization of Acquired Intangibles from SG&A in loss have passed to the customer, which is typically upon delivery.
comparative periods to conform to the current classification.
The Product sales are recorded net of applicable reserves for discounts Company reclassified capital lease obligations from Other current and allowances.
liabilities to the Short-term borrowings and from Other non-current liabilities to Long-term borrowings and capital lease obligations in Reserves for Discounts and Allowances comparative periods to conform the current classification.
The Company establishes reserves for trade discounts, chargebacks, distribution service fees, Medicaid rebates, managed Use of estimates in Consolidated Financial Statements care rebates, incentive rebates, product returns and other The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, governmental rebates or applicable allowances.
These reserves inconformity with US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions the related sales.
Managements estimates take into consideration thataffect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and equity at historical experience, current contractual and statutory the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and reported requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
data and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns.
On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, Actual amounts may ultimately differ from estimates.
If actual judgments and methodologies.
Estimates are based on historical results vary, management adjusts these estimates, which have experience, current conditions and on various other assumptions aneffect on earnings in the period of adjustment.
that are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which Shire Annual Report 2016 131 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Royalties and Other Revenue Trade discounts are generally credits granted to wholesalers, Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when specialty pharmacies and other customers for remitting the licensee sells the underlying product, with the amount of royalty paymenton their purchases within established incentive periods income recorded based on sales information received from the and are classified as a reduction of accounts receivable, offset relevant licensee.
The Company estimates sales amounts and by revenue.
related royalty income based on the historical product information Chargebacks are credits or payments issued to wholesalers for any period that the sales information is not available from the anddistributors who provide products to qualified healthcare relevant licensee.
providers at prices lower than the list prices charged to the Other revenue includes revenues derived from product outwholesaler or distributor.
Reserves are estimated based on licensing arrangements, which may consist of an initial up-front expected purchases by those qualified healthcare providers.
payment on inception of the license and subsequent milestone Chargeback reserves are classified as a reduction of accounts payments upon achievement of certain clinical and sales receivable.
To the extent the license requires Shire to provide Distribution service fees are credits or payments issued to services to the licensee: up-front payments are deferred and wholesalers, distributors and specialty pharmacies for recognized over the service period.
compliance with various  inventory management practices or services provided to support patient Business combinations access to a product.
These fees are generally based on a Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition percentage of gross purchases but can also be based on method of accounting.
Under the acquisition method, assets additional services these entities provide.
Most of these costs acquired, including in-process research and development are reflected as a reduction of gross sales: however, to the IPR&D projects, and liabilities assumed are recorded at their extent benefit from services can be separately identified and the respective fair values as of the acquisition date in the Consolidated fair value determined, costs are classified in Selling, general and Financial Statements.
The excess of the fair value of consideration administrative expense.
Reserves are classified within accrued transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired is expenses.
Contingent consideration obligations Medicaid rebates are payments to States under statutory and incurred in connection with a business combination including the voluntary reimbursement arrangements.
Reserves for these assumption of an acquirees liability arising from a business rebates are generally based on an estimate of expected product combination it completed prior to the acquisition are recorded at usage by Medicaid patients and expected rebate rates.
Statutory their fair values on the acquisition date and remeasured at their rates are generally based on a percentage of selling price fairvalues each subsequent reporting period until the related adjusted upwards for price increases in excess of published contingencies are resolved.
The resulting changes in fair values inflation indices.
As a result, rebates generally increase as a arerecorded in earnings.
percentage of the selling price over the life of the product as Goodwill prices increase.
Medicaid rebate reserves are classified within Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price accrued expenses.
and the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible net Managed care rebates are payments to third parties, primarily assets acquired in a business combination.
Goodwill is not pharmacy benefit managers and other health insurance amortized, but instead is reviewed for impairment.
The reserve for these rebates is based on an estimate reviewed annually, as of October 1, and whenever events or of customer buying patterns and applicable contractual rebate changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of rates to be earned over each period.
Reserves are classified goodwill may not be recoverable.
Events or changes in within accrued expenses.
circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include Incentive rebates are generally credits or payments issued to but are not limited to: unexpected adverse business conditions, specialty pharmacies or Group Purchasing Organizations for economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or qualified purchases of certain products.
Reserves are estimated competitive activities and acts by governments and courts.
based on the terms of each individual contract and purchase volumes and are classified within accrued expenses.
For the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill for Return credits are issued to customers for return of product impairment, goodwill is allocated at the Companys reporting unit damaged in shipment and, for certain products, return due to lot level.
As described in Note 23, Segment Reporting, the Company expiry.
The majority of returns are due to expiry, and reserves are operates in one operating segment which it considers to be its only estimated based on historical returns experience.
reserve is classified within accrued expenses.
The Company reviews goodwill for impairment by firstly assessing Other discounts and allowances include Medicare rebates, qualitative factors, including comparing the market capitalization coupon and patient co-pay assistance.
Medicare rebates are ofthe Company to the carrying value of its assets, to determine payments to health insurance providers of Medicare Part D whether events or circumstances exist which indicate that it is coverage to qualified patients.
Reserve estimates are based on more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less customer buying patterns and applicable contractual rebate than its carrying amount.
The Company assesses all events or rates to be earned over each period.
Coupon and co-pay circumstances and determines if it is more likely than not that the assistance programs provide discounts to qualified patients.
fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value.
If, after Reserve estimates are based on expected claim volumes under assessing these qualitative factors, it is deemed more likely than these programs and estimated cost per claim that the Company not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying expects to pay.
Reserves for Medicare and coupon and patient value, a two step quantitative assessment is performed by co-pay programs are classified within accrued expenses.
comparing the carrying value of the reporting units net assets including allocated goodwill to the fair value of the reporting unit.
132 Shire Annual Report 2016 The Company compares the fair value of its reporting unit to its If the Company acquires a business as defined under applicable carrying value.
If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to accounting standards, then the acquired IPR&D is capitalized as the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of its reporting unit, then an intangible asset.
If the Company acquires an asset or group of itdetermines the implied fair value of its reporting units goodwill.
assets that do not meet the definition of a business, then the Ifthe carrying value of the reporting units goodwill exceeds its acquired IPR&D is expensed on its acquisition date.
Future costs to implied fair value, then an impairment loss equal to the difference develop these assets are recorded to research and development isrecorded.
expense as they are incurred.
Intangible Assets IPR&D projects are considered to be indefinite-lived until Intangible assets primarily relate to commercially marketed completion of the associated R&D efforts.
If and when products and IPR&D projects.
Intangible assets are recorded at development is complete, which generally occurs when regulatory fairvalue at the time of their acquisition and are stated in the approval to market a product is obtained, the associated assets Consolidated Balance Sheets, net of accumulated amortization would be deemed finite-lived and would then be amortized based and impairments, if applicable.
on their respective estimated useful lives at that point in time.
Intangible assets related to IPR&D projects are tested for Intangible assets related to commercially marketed products are impairment at least annually, as of October 1, until commercialization, amortized over their estimated useful lives.
Remaining useful lives after which time the IPR&D is amortized over its estimated range from 2 to 25 years weighted average 20 years and the usefullife.
Company amortizes its intangibles on a straight-line basis.
The Company reviews intangible assets for impairment when facts or The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets, circumstances suggest that the carrying value of these assets may except for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, whenever not be recoverable.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the relevant assets may not be recoverable.
When Milestone payments made to third parties on and subsequent to such a determination is made, managements estimate of regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, and undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the use and ultimate amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
disposition of these assets is compared to the carrying value of theassets to determine whether the carrying value is recoverable.
The following factors, where applicable, are considered in If the carrying value is deemed not to be recoverable, the amount estimating the useful lives of intangible assets: of the impairment recognized in the Consolidated Financial expected use of the asset: Statements is determined by estimating the fair value of the regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the relevant assets and recording an impairment loss for the amount regulatory approval and review process, patent issues and by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.
This actions by government agencies: fair value is usually determined based on estimated discounted the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing cash flows.
products and other economic factors, including the stability of When performing the impairment assessment, the Company the market, known technological advances, development of calculates the fair value using the same methodology as described competing drugs that are more effective clinically or above.
If the carrying value of the acquired IPR&D exceeds its fair economically: value, then the intangible asset is written-down to its fair value.
actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or othersthat may eliminate current competitive advantages: and Fair Value Measurements historical experience of renewing or extending similar The Company has certain financial assets and liabilities recorded arrangements.
at fair value which have been classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 within the fair value hierarchy as described in the accounting standards for Acquired IPR&D represents the fair value assigned to research and fair value measurements: development assets that have not reached technological feasibility.
The value assigned to acquired IPR&D is determined by estimating Level 1 Fair values are determined utilizing quoted prices the costs to develop the acquired technology into commercially unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities viable products, estimating the resulting revenue from the projects, thatwe have the ability to access: and discounting the net cash flows to present value.
The revenue Level 2 Fair values are determined by utilizing quoted prices and costs projections used to value acquired IPR&D are, as for identical or similar assets and liabilities in active markets or applicable, reduced based on the probability of success of other market observable inputs such as interest rates, yield developing a new drug.
Additionally, the projections consider the curves and foreign currency spot rates: and relevant market sizes and growth factors, expected trends in Level 3 Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both technology, and the nature and expected timing of new product significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
introductions by the Company and its competitors.
The rates utilized to discount the net cash flows to their present value are The majority of the Companys financial assets have been commensurate with the stage of development of the projects and classified as Level 1 and 2.
The Companys financial assets, which uncertainties in the economic estimates used in the projections.
include cash equivalents, derivative contracts, marketable equity Upon the acquisition of IPR&D, the Company completes an and debt securities, and plan assets for deferred compensation, assessment of whether the acquisition constitutes the purchase of have been initially valued at the transaction price and subsequently a single asset or a group of assets.
The Company considers multiple valued, at the end of each reporting period, utilizing third-party factors in this assessment, including the nature of the technology pricing services or other market observable data.
The Company acquired, the presence or absence of separate cash flows, the utilizes industry standard valuation models, including both income development process and stage of completion, quantitative and market-based approaches and observable market inputs to significance and its rationale for entering into the transaction.
These observable market inputs include Shire Annual Report 2016 133 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Obsolescence and Unmarketable Inventory reportable trades, benchmark yields, credit spreads, broker dealer Inventories are written down for estimated obsolescence or quotes, bids, offers, current spot rates and other industry and unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost economic events.
ofinventory and estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Amounts written Accounts receivable down due to unmarketable inventory are charged to Cost of The Companys accounts receivable arise from Product sales and product sales.
represent amounts due from its customers.
The Company monitors the financial performance and credit worthiness of its Property, plant and equipment large customers so that it can assess and respond to changes in Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, net of their credit profile.
The Company provides reserves against accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Property, plant accounts receivable for estimated losses, if any, that may result and equipment are subject to review for impairment whenever from a customers inability to pay.
Amounts determined to be events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying uncollectible are written off against the reserve.
amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
The cost of normal, recurring, or periodic repairs and maintenance activities related to Investments property, plant and equipment are expensed as incurred.
The cost The Company has certain investments in pharmaceutical and for planned major maintenance activities, including the related biotechnology companies whose securities are not publicly traded acquisition or construction of assets, is capitalized if the repair will and where fair value is not readily available.
These investments are result in future economic benefits.
recorded using either the cost method or the equity method of accounting, depending on its ownership percentage and other Interest costs incurred during the construction of major capital factors that suggest the Company has significant influence.
projects are capitalized until the underlying asset is ready for its Underthe equity method of accounting, the Company records intended use, at which point the interest costs are amortized as itsinvestments in equity-method investees in the consolidated depreciation expense over the useful life of the underlying asset.
balance sheet under Investments and its share of the investees The Company also capitalizes certain direct and incremental earnings or losses together with other-thantemporary costsassociated with the validation effort required for licensing impairments in value under equity in losses earnings of equity byregulatory agencies of new manufacturing equipment for the method investees, net of taxes in the Consolidated Statements of production of a commercially approved drug.
The Company monitors these investments to evaluate include direct labor and material and are incurred in preparing the whether any decline in their value has occurred that would be equipment for its intended use.
The validation costs are amortized other-than-temporary, based on the implied value of recent over the useful life of the related equipment.
company financings, public market prices of comparable Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using companies, and general market conditions.
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as follows: All other equity investments, which consist of investments for Estimated which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant Asset category useful lives influence, are accounted for under the cost method or at fair value.
Land Not depreciated Investments in private companies are carried at cost, less provisions for other-than-temporary impairment in value.
For Buildings and leasehold improvements 15 to 50 years investments in equity investments that have readily determinable Office furniture, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years fair values, the Company classifies its equity investments as Machinery, equipment and other 3 to 15 years available-for-sale and, accordingly, records these investments at their fair values with unrealized holding gains and losses included At the time property, plant and equipment is retired or otherwise in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, net of any disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated related tax effect.
Realized gains and losses, and declines in value from the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit of available-for-sale securities judged to be other-than-temporary, or loss on such disposition is reflected in operating income.
are included in other income, net in the Consolidated Statements Discontinued operations of Operations.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were identification method.
Interest on securities classified as availabledisposed of during the period or which were classified as held for for-sale is included as interest income in the Consolidated sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate major line of Statements of Operations.
business or geographical area that can be clearly distinguished for Inventories operational and financial reporting purposes.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Cost incurred Contingent consideration payable in bringing each product to its present location and condition is Contingent consideration payable represents future milestones and based on purchase costs calculated on a first-in, first-out basis, royalties the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with including transportation costs.
The inventory costs are classified various business combinations.
The amounts ultimately payable by aslong-term when the Company expects to utilize the inventory the Company are dependent upon the successful achievement of beyond the normal operating cycle and includes these costs in the underlying scientific or commercial event and future net sales Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
of the relevant products over applicable term.
The Company Capitalization of Inventory Costs records an obligation for such contingent payments at fair value on The Company capitalizes inventory costs associated with its products the acquisition date.
The Company assesses the probability, and prior to regulatory approval, when, based on managements estimated timing, of these milestones being achieved and the judgment, future commercialization is considered highly probable present value of forecast future net sales of the relevant products and the future economic benefit is expected to be realized.
and re-measures the related contingent consideration to fair value 134 Shire Annual Report 2016 each balance sheet date.
The amount of contingent consideration liabilities differ from the local currency, non-monetary assets and which may ultimately be payable by Shire in relation to future liabilities are translated at the rate of exchange in effect on the date royalties is dependent upon future net sales of the relevant assets were acquired while monetary assets and liabilities are products over the life of the royalty term.
translated at current rates of exchange as of the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration payable foreign currency rates for the period.
Translation adjustments of could significantly increase or decrease due to changes in certain these subsidiaries are included in Other income expense, net, assumptions which underpin the fair value measurements.
set of assumptions and milestones is specific to the individual contingent consideration payable.
The assumptions include, Foreign currency exchange transaction losses included in among other things, the probability of, and period in which, the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the years ended relevant milestone event is expected to be achieved: the amount December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 amounted to $17.7 million, ofroyalties that will be payable based on forecast net sales of $ 26.5 million and $ 15.6 million, respectively.
therelevant products: and the discount rates to be applied in Cost of product sales calculating the present values of the relevant milestone or royalty.
Cost of product sales includes the cost of purchasing finished The Company regularly reviews these assumptions, and makes product for sale, the cost of raw materials and costs of adjustments to the fair value measurements as required by facts manufacturing those products including shipping and handling and circumstances.
costs, depreciation and amortization of intangible assets in respect Derivative financial instruments of favorable manufacturing contracts.
Royalties payable to thirdThe Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its party intellectual property owners related to the sold products are exposure to foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted also included in Cost of product sales.
transactions and recognized assets and liabilities.
For each Research and development R&D expense derivative instrument that is designated and effective as a cash Research and development expenses consist of upfront fees flow hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative is recorded in andmilestones paid to collaborators and expenses incurred in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income AOCI and then performing research and development activities, which include recognized in earnings consistent with the underlying hedged item.
compensation and benefits, facilities and overhead expenses, Cash flow hedges are classified in revenues and cost of sales and clinical trial expenses and fees paid to contract research primarily relate to forecasted third-party sales denominated in organizations CROs, clinical supply and manufacturing foreign currencies and forecasted intercompany sales expenses.
R&D expense also includes the impairment charges denominated in foreign currencies, respectively.
In its application of hedge accounting, the Company assesses, Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred.
both at inception and on a prospective basis, whether the Payments that were made for research and development services derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly prior to the services being rendered are recorded as Prepaid effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows or fair values of the expenses and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance hedged items.
The Company also assesses hedge effectiveness Sheets and are expensed as the services are provided.
on a retrospective basis every quarter with any hedge Management also accrues the costs of ongoing clinical trials ineffectiveness recorded to the Consolidated Statement of associated with programs that have been terminated or Operations.
discontinued for which there is no future economic benefit at the The Company uses forward contracts to mitigate the effects of time the decision is made to terminate or discontinue the program.
changes in foreign exchange relating to certain of the Companys Selling, general and administrative expenses intercompany and third-party receivables and payables.
These Selling, general and administrative expenses are primarily derivative instruments generally are not formally designated as comprised of compensation and benefits associated with sales hedges and the terms of these instruments generally do not and marketing, finance, human resources, legal, information exceed three months.
The fair values of these instruments are technology and other administrative personnel, outside marketing, included on the balance sheet in current assets liabilities, with advertising and legal expenses and other general and changes in the fair value recognized in the Consolidated administrative costs.
The cash flows relating to these instruments are presented within net cash provided by operating Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Advertising costs activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, unless the amounted to $216.0 million, $56.1 million and $56.4 million for the derivative instruments are economically hedging specific investing years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Collaborative arrangements Translation of foreign currency The Company enters into collaborative arrangements to develop The functional currency for most of the foreign subsidiaries is their and commercialize drug candidates.
S. subsidiaries that transact in a arrangements often require up-front, milestone, royalty or profit functional currency other than the U. S. Dollar, assets and liabilities share payments, or a combination of these, with payments often are translated at current rates of exchange at the balance sheet contingent upon the success of the related development and date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average commercialization efforts.
Collaboration agreements entered into foreign exchange rates for the period.
Adjustments resulting from by the Company may also include expense reimbursements or the translation of the financial statements of the foreign operations other such payments to the collaborating partner.
The Company into U. S. Dollars are excluded from the determination of Net records payments received from the collaborative partners for their income and are recorded in AOCI, a separate component of equity.
share of the development costs as a reduction of research and For subsidiaries where the functional currency of the assets and development expense.
Shire Annual Report 2016 135 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued potential Ordinary Shares equivalents that were outstanding during For collaborations with commercialized products, if the Company the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are excluded when the is the principal, we record revenue and the corresponding effect would be to increase diluted earnings per share or reduce operating costs in their respective line items in the Consolidated the diluted loss per share.
If we are not the principal, we record Share-based compensation operating costs as a reduction of revenue.
The share-based compensation programs grant awards that Leased assets include stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs, stock The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a options, performance share awards PSAs, restricted stock units straight-line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are RSUs and performance share units PSUs.
The Company also not made on such a basis.
operates a Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and Sharesave Plans in the UK and Ireland.
Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as property, plant and equipment Share-based compensation represents the cost of share-based and are depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease or awards granted to employees.
The Company measures sharetheir useful lives.
The capital element of future lease payments is based compensation cost for awards classified as equity at the recorded as a liability, while the interest element is charged to grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award.
operations over the period of the lease to produce a level yield on Predominantly all of the Companys awards have service and or the balance of the capital lease obligation.
performance conditions and the fair values of these awards are estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Finance costs of debt Financing costs relating to debt issued are recorded against the For share-based compensation awards which cliff vest, the corresponding debt and amortized to the Consolidated Statements Company recognizes the cost of the relevant share-based of Operations over the period to the earliest redemption date of the payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis net of debt, using the effective interest rate method.
On extinguishment estimated forfeitures over the employees requisite service period.
of the related debt, any unamortized deferred financing costs are For those share-based compensation awards with a graded written off and charged to interest expense in the Consolidated vesting schedule, the Company recognizes the cost of the relevant Statements of Operations.
share-based payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis net of estimated forfeitures over the requisite service period for Income taxes the entire award that is, over the requisite service period for the The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, local and last separately vesting portion of the award.
Income taxes are accounted for under the liability compensation expense is recorded in Cost of product sales, R&D, method.
SG&A, Reorganization costs and Integration and Acquisition costs in the Consolidated Statements of Operations based on the Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the Consolidated employees respective functions.
Financial Statements for positions which are considered more likely than not of being sustained, based on the technical merits of the The Company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in position on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the deductions on the Companys income tax returns, based on the tax benefit recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements is amount of compensation cost recognized and the Companys based upon the largest amount of tax benefit that, in statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a managements judgment, is greater than 50 percent likely of being deduction.
Differences between the deferred tax assets realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of the recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax possible outcomes.
deduction reported on the Companys income tax return are recorded in additional paid-in capital if the tax deduction exceeds The Company recognizes interest and penalties relating to income the deferred tax asset or in the Consolidated Statements of taxes within income taxes.
Interest income on cash required to be Operations if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction deposited with the tax authorities is recognized within interest and no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards.
Companys share-based compensation plans are described more Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for differences fully in Note 28, Share-based Compensation Plans.
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the New accounting pronouncements Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax bases of assets From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued and liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible bythe Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB or other amounts.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured standard setting bodies that the Company adopts as of the using the enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods specified effective date.
Unless otherwise discussed below, inwhich the differences are expected to affect taxable income.
theCompany does not believe that the impact of recently Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, issuedstandards that are not yet effective will have a material inthe opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is based upon net income attributable to the Company divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share isbased upon net income attributable to the Company divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Share equivalents outstanding during the period, adjusted for the dilutive effect of all 136 Shire Annual Report 2016 Adopted during the period completed at the acquisition date, and sets forth new disclosure Reporting requirements for development stage entities requirements related to the adjustments.
Shire adopted this In June 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update guidance as of January 1, 2016, with prospective application.
2014-10 Development Stage Entities Topic 915 adoption of this guidance impacted the recognition and disclosure Elimination of Certain Financial Reporting Requirements, Including of measurement period adjustments identified during the twelve an Amendment to Variable Interest Entities Guidance in Topic 810, months ended December 31, 2016 related to the Baxalta and Dyax Consolidation.
ASU 2014-10 simplified the existing guidance for acquisitions.
Refer to Note 4, Business Combinations for further development stage entities by removing all incremental financial information.
reporting requirements and the exception available for Financial Instrument Accounting development stage entities when determining whether the In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-06, Derivatives development stage entity is a variable interest entity.
The andHedging Topic 815 : Contingent Put and Call Options in elimination of the exception may change the consolidation analysis, DebtInstruments.
The new guidance clarifies the requirements consolidation decision, and disclosure requirements for a reporting forassessing whether contingent call and put options that can entity that has an interest in an entity in the development stage.
accelerate the payment of principal of debt instruments are Shire adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2016, with clearlyand closely related to their debt host.
This guidance will be prospective application.
The adoption of this guidance did not effective beginning on January 1, 2017, and modified retrospective impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of application is required.
Shire adopted operations or cash flows.
this guidance as of 2016, and it had no impact on the Companys Debt Issuance Costs financial position or results of operations.
In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-03, Interest Pension Plans Imputation of Interest Subtopic 835-30 : Simplifying the In May 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-07, Fair Value Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs.
The new standard requires Measurement Topic 820 : Disclosures for Investments in Certain debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability to be Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share or Its Equivalent.
presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the The new guidance removes the disclosure requirement to carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt categorize within the fair value hierarchy all investments that discounts.
In August 2015, the FASB issued additional guidance measure fair value using the net asset value per share as a which clarified that debt issuance costs related to line-of-credit practical expedient and certain disclosures associated with these arrangements can be presented in the balance sheet as an asset types of investments.
This guidance became effective beginning and amortized over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement.
The on January 1, 2016, and retrospective application is required.
This recognition and measurement guidance for debt issuance costs guidance was adopted during the current period and impacted the were not affected by these amendments.
disclosure of certain acquired pension plan assets in the fair value Shire adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2016, with retroactive hierarchy in Note 19, Retirement and Other Benefit Programs, but application.
The Short-term borrowings and Long-term borrowings did not impact the Companys financial position or results of line items in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and related footnote operations.
disclosures for all periods presented have been adjusted To be adopted in future periods accordingly.
The adoption of this guidance did not impact the Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment Companys results of operations or cash flows.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU  Computing Arrangement Goodwill and Other Topic 350 : Simplifying the Test for Goodwill In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
The new guidance eliminates Step 2 from the Goodwill and Other Internal-Use Software Subtopic 350-40 : goodwillimpairment test.
Under Step 2, an entity had to perform Customers Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing Arrangement.
Under the standard, if a cloud computing date of its assets and liabilities including unrecognized assets and arrangement includes a software license, then the software license liabilities following the procedure that would be required in element of the arrangement should be accounted for consistent determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the acquisition of other software licenses.
If a cloud computing in a business combination.
Instead, under the amendments in this arrangement does not include a software license, the arrangement Update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill should be accounted for as a service contract.
Shire adopted this impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with guidance as of January 1, 2016, with prospective application.
An entity should recognize an impairment adoption of this guidance did not impact the Companys charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
reporting units fair value: however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Measurement-Period Adjustments In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-16, Business Additionally, an entity should consider income tax effects from any Combinations Topic 805 : Simplifying the Accounting for tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting Measurement-Period Adjustments to simplify the accounting for unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable.
adjustments related to business combinations arising within one The Board also eliminated the requirements for any reporting unit year of the acquisition.
The standard simplifies the accounting for with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative adjustments related to business combinations arising within one assessment and, if it fails that qualitative test, to perform Step 2 year of the acquisition.
The new standard requires that an acquirer ofthe goodwill impairment test.
Therefore, the same impairment recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified assessment applies to all reporting units.
An entity is required to during the measurement period in the reporting period in which the disclose the amount of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit adjustment amounts are determined and record the effect on with a zero or negative carrying amount of net assets.
An entity still earnings of those changes as if the accounting had been Shire Annual Report 2016 137 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued guidance requires an entity to measure inventory at the lower of has the option to perform the qualitative assessment for a reporting cost and net realizable value.
Net realizable value is defined as the unit to determine if the quantitative impairment test is necessary.
estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and The amendment is effective for the Company beginning on transportation.
This standard is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted for annual goodwill January 1, 2017.
The Company does impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017.
The Company not believe the adoption of this guidance will have a material iscurrently evaluating the potential impact on its financial position impact on its financial position or results of operations.
and results of operations of the amendment.
Financial Instrument Accounting Definition of a Business In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-01, Financial In January 2017 the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-01, Business Instruments Overall Subtopic 825-10 : Recognition and Combinations Topic 805 : Clarifying the Definition of a Business.
Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
The new This new standard clarifies the definition of a business and standard amends certain aspects of accounting and disclosure provides a screen to determine when an integrated set of assets requirements of financial instruments, including the requirement and activities is not a business.
The screen requires that when that equity investments with readily determinable fair values be substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in the ordisposed of is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or results of operations.
The new standard does not apply to agroup of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting Thisnew standard will be effective for us on January 1, 2018. or those that result in consolidation of the investee.
Equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values may Revenue from Contracts with Customers be measured at fair value or at cost minus impairment adjusted for In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update changes in observable prices.
A financial liability that is measured ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers at fair value in accordance with the fair value option is required to Topic 606, which supersedes all existing revenue recognition be presented separately in Other Comprehensive Income for the requirements, including most industry-specific guidance.
The portion of the total change in the fair value resulting from change newstandard requires a company to recognize revenue when it inthe instrument-specific credit risk.
In addition, a valuation transfers goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects allowance should be evaluated on deferred tax assets related to the consideration that the company expects to receive for those available-for-sale debt securities in combination with other deferred goods or services.
The new standard also requires additional tax assets.
The new standard will be effective for the Company qualitative and quantitative disclosures.
The Company is currently evaluating the In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-14, Revenue from method of adoption and the potential impact on its financial Contracts with Customers Topic 606 : Deferral of the Effective Date, position and results of operations of adopting this guidance.
which delayed the effective date of the new standard from January Leases 1, 2017 to January 1, 2018.
The FASB also agreed to allow entities In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases to choose to adopt the standard as of the original effective date.
The new accounting guidance will require the In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-08, Revenue from recognition of all lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees and Contracts with Customers Topic 606 : Principal versus Agent sets forth new disclosure requirements for those lease assets and Considerations, which clarifies the implementation guidance on liabilities.
The standard requires lessees to recognize right-of-use principal versus agent considerations.
assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet using a modified retrospective approach at the beginning of the earliest comparative In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-10, Revenue from period in the financial statements.
This standard is effective for the Contracts with Customers Topic 606 : Identifying Performance Company as of January 1, 2019.
The Obligations and Licensing, which clarifies certain aspects of identifying Company is currently evaluating the potential impact on its financial performance obligations and licensing implementation guidance.
position and results of operations of adopting this guidance.
For In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-12, Revenue from detail on the Companys commitments under operating leases see Contracts with Customers Topic 606 : Narrow-Scope Improvements Note 25 Commitments and Contingencies.
and Practical Expedients related to disclosures of remaining Share-Based Payment Accounting performance obligations, as well as other amendments to guidance In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-09, Compensation on collectability, non-cash consideration and the presentation of - Stock Compensation Topic 718 : Improvements to Employee sales and other similar taxes collected from customers.
The new standard requires In May 2016, the FASB rescinded several SEC Staff recognition of the income tax effects of vested or settled awards Announcements that are codified in ASC 605, including, among inthe income statement and involves several other aspects of the other items, guidance relating to accounting for shipping and accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the handling fees and freight services.
income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification on the statement of cash flows and These standards have the same effective date and transition allows a one-time accounting policy election to account for dateof January 1, 2018.
The Company is currently evaluating forfeitures as they occur.
The new standard will be effective on themethod of adoption and the potential impact on its financial January 1, 2017. position and results of operations of adopting this guidance.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of 2017.
Inventory Currently, excess tax benefits or deficiencies from the Companys In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-11, Inventory equity awards are recorded as Additional paid-in capital in its Topic330 : Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory.
The new Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Upon adoption, the Company will 138 Shire Annual Report 2016 record any excess tax benefits or deficiencies from its equity products and in-process research and development IPR&D awards in its Consolidated Statements of Operations in the projects.
The Company has intangible assets of $34,697.5 million as reporting periods in which vesting or settlement occurs.
Subsequent to adoption, the Companys income tax expense and If the Company acquires an asset or group of assets that do not associated effective tax rate will be impacted by fluctuations in meet the definition of a business under applicable accounting stock price between the grant dates and vesting or settlement standards, the acquired IPR&D is expensed on its acquisition date.
dates of equity awards and timing of employee exercise activity.
Future costs to develop these assets are recorded to research and Upon adoption of ASU 2016-09, the Company will elect to change development expense as they are incurred.
its accounting policy to account for forfeitures as they occur.
These The identifiable intangible assets are measured at their respective changes will be applied on a modified retrospective basis with an fair values as of the acquisition date.
When significant identifiable immaterial cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of intangible assets are acquired, the Company engages an January 1, 2017. independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining the Statement of Cash Flows fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date.
The models In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Statement of used in valuing these intangible assets require the use of significant Cash Flows Topic 230 : Classification of Certain Cash Receipts estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: and Cash Payments.
The new standard clarifies certain aspects estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the ofthe statement of cash flows, and aims to reduce diversity in products or product candidates: practice regarding how certain transactions are classified in the the probability of success for unapproved product candidates statement of cash flows.
This amendment is effective for the considering their stages of development: Company as of January 1, 2018.
The the time and resources needed to complete the development adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant and approval of product candidates: impact on the Companys Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
projecting regulatory approvals: and In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by Cash Flows Topic 230 : Restricted Cash.
The new guidance is project.
intended to reduce diversity in the presentation of restricted cash The Company believes the fair values used to record intangible and restricted cash equivalents in the statement.
The guidance assets acquired in connection with a business combination are requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions given the included as components of total cash and cash equivalents as factsand circumstances as of the acquisition date.
presented on the statement of cash flows.
This pronouncement goes into effect for the Company as of January 1, 2018.
The If IPR&D projects fail during development, are abandoned or adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a significant subject to significant delay, or do not receive the relevant regulatory impact on the Companys Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
approvals, the Company may not realize the future cash flows that it has estimated nor recover the value of the R&D investment made Statutory accounts subsequent to acquisition of the project.
If such circumstances The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in occur, the Companys future operating results could be materially accordance with US GAAP, in fulfillment of the Companys United adversely impacted.
Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA annual reporting requirements and will be filed with the UKLA in due course.
IPR&D projects are considered to be indefinite-lived until completion of the associated R&D efforts.
If and when Statutory accounts of Shire, consisting of the solus accounts of development is complete, which generally occurs when regulatory Shire plc for the year to December 31, 2016 are prepared in approval to market a product is obtained, the associated assets accordance with UK GAAP and the Companies Jersey Law 1991 would be deemed finite-lived and would then be amortized based and are included in the Annual Report.
Intangible assets related to IPR&D projects are tested for 3.
Critical accounting estimates impairment at least annually, as of October 1st, until The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements, in commercialization, after which time the IPR&D is amortized over conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the itsestimated useful life.
United States US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that Intangible assets related to commercially marketed products are affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and equity at the amortized over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis.
date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and reported Intangible assets related to commercially marketed products are amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
reviewed for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable.
Estimates are based on historical Goodwill experience, current conditions and on various other assumptions Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred that are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which over the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assumed in a business combination.
The Company has $17,888.2 assets, liabilities and equity and the amounts of revenues and million and $4,147.8 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2016 expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under and 2015, respectively, as a result of accounting for business different assumptions or conditions.
combinations using the acquisition method of accounting.
Valuation of intangible assets In conjunction with the accounting for business combinations, the Company recorded intangible assets primarily related to marketed Shire Annual Report 2016 139 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued If actual results vary, the Company may need to adjust these The Company assesses the goodwill balance within its single estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the period reporting unit annually, as of October 1, and whenever events or ofthe adjustment.
changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill Aggregate reserves for Medicaid and MCO rebates as of may not be recoverable to determine whether any impairment in December 31, 2016 and 2015 were $1,431.3 million and this asset may exist and, if so, the extent of such impairment.
The $982.4million, or 13 percent and 16 percent, respectively, Company reviews goodwill for impairment by assessing qualitative ofProduct sales.
Historically, actual rebates have not varied and quantitative factors, including comparing the market significantly fromthe reserves provided.
capitalization of the Company to the carrying value of its assets.
Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation d. Product Returns include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic The Company typically accepts customer product returns in factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive thefollowing circumstances: a expiration of shelf life on certain activities and acts by governments and courts.
products: b product damaged while in the Companys possession: c under sales terms that allow for unconditional The Company completed its annual impairment test in the fourth return guaranteed sales : or d following product recalls or product quarters of 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and determined in withdrawals.
Generally, returns for expired product are accepted each of those periods that the carrying value of goodwill was not three months before and up to one year after expiration date of the impaired.
In each year, the fair value of the reporting unit, which relevant product and the returned product is destroyed.
Depending includes goodwill, was significantly in excess of the carrying value on the product and the Companys return policy with respect to of the reporting unit.
that product, the Company may either refund the sales price paid Revenue Recognition and Related Allowances by the customer by issuance of a credit, or exchange the returned a.
Product Revenue product with replacement inventory.
The Company typically does The Company recognizes revenues from Product sales when not provide cash refunds.
thereis persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery The Company estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectability will result in a return by considering relevant factors, including but isreasonably assured.
The Company records Product sales net not limited to: ofsales deductions.
Other Revenue the duration of time taken for products to be returned: Royalty income relating to licensed technology is generally the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: recognized when the licensee sells the underlying product.
The product recalls and discontinuances: Company estimates sales amounts and related royalty income the shelf life of products: based on the historical product information.
Estimates are revised the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and pursuant to receiving sales information from the relevant licensee.
the loss of patent protection, exclusivity or new competition.
Ifthe Company is unable to reliably estimate the amount based on past experiences, the amount of royalty income is recorded when The accrual estimation process for product returns involves, in sales information from the relevant licensee is received.
each case, a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary foreach combination of product and customer.
c. Sales Deductions Sales deductions consist primarily of statutory rebates to State As of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, reserves for product Medicaid and other government agencies: Medicare Part D returns were $118.4 million, $128.3 million, and $131.7 million or rebates: commercial rebates and fees to Managed Care 1.1percent, 2.1 percent and 2.3 percent, respectively, of Product Organizations MCOs, Group Purchasing Organizations sales.
Historically, actual returns have not varied significantly from GPOs, distributors and specialty pharmacies: product returns: the reserves provided.
sales discounts including trade discounts : distribution service Income Taxes fees: wholesaler chargebacks: and allowances for coupon and The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and patient assistance programs.
These deductions are recorded as liability method.
Provisions for federal, state and foreign income reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are taxes are calculated on reported pre-tax earnings based on recognized.
Reserves are based on estimates of the amounts current laws.
Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates earned or to be claimed on the related sales.
Estimates are based on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which on the Companys historical experience of existing or similar are the differences between the financial statement carrying programs, current contractual and statutory requirements, specific amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and known market events and trends, industry data and forecasted the tax benefits of carryforwards.
In the normal course of business, customer buying and payment patterns.
Additionally, certain the Company is audited by the Irish and foreign tax authorities, rebates are based on annual purchase volumes which are andit is periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes notknown until completion of the annual period on which they due.
These challenges primarily relate to the timing and amount of arebased.
As a result, the Company estimates the accruals deductions and the transfer pricing in various tax jurisdictions.
The andrelated reserves required for amounts payable under Company believes its tax positions comply with applicable tax law theseprograms.
and the Company intends to defend its positions.
140 Shire Annual Report 2016 In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management is Contingent consideration payable required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration payable be recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements, based as of December 31, 2016 was $1,058.0 million December 31, onwhether it is more likely than not that the technical merits of the 2015: $475.9 million.
position will be sustained based on audit by the tax authorities.
In Contingent consideration payable represents future milestones and accounting for income tax uncertainties, management is required royalties the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with to make judgments in the determination of the unit of account, the various business combinations.
The amounts ultimately payable evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information in respect of bythe Company are dependent upon the successful achievement the tax position taken, together with the estimates of amounts that of the relevant milestones and future net sales of the relevant the Company may be required to pay in ultimate settlement with products over the life of the milestone or term, respectively.
The Company estimates the fair value of contingent consideration Any outcome upon settlement that differs from the recorded payable using the income approach, based on a discounted cash provision for uncertain tax positions may result in a materially flow method.
The discounted cash flow method uses inputs with higher or lower tax expense in future periods, which could values that may not be observable in a public trading market, significantly impact the Companys results of operations or financial including, but not limited to: the probability of, and period in which, condition.
However, the Company does not believe it is possible to the relevant milestone event is expected to be achieved: the reasonably estimate the potential impact of any such change in amount of royalties that will be payable based on forecast net sales assumptions, estimates or judgments and the resultant change, if of the relevant products: and the discount rates to be applied in any, in the Companys provision for uncertain tax positions, as any calculating the present values of the relevant milestone or royalty.
such change is dependent on factors such as future changes in Significant judgment is employed by the Company in developing tax law or administrative practice, the amount and nature of these estimates and assumptions.
If actual events differ from additional taxes which may be asserted by the taxation authorities, managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates and the willingness of the relevant tax authorities to negotiate a areadjusted in the future, the Companys financial condition and settlement for any such position.
results of operations could be materially affected in the period of The Company has significant deferred tax assets due to various tax any such change of estimate.
attributes, including net operating losses NOLs and tax credits Pension and other post employment benefit OPEB plans from Research and Development activities principally in the The valuation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost is Republic of Ireland, the U. S. Switzerland, Belgium and Germany.
These significant The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent on assumptions include the following: various factors.
Management is required to exercise judgment in determining whether it is more likely than not that it would realize interest rates used to discount pension and OPEB plan liabilities: these deferred tax assets.
In assessing the need for a valuation the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets: allowance, management weighs all available positive and negative rates of increases in employee compensation used in evidence including cumulative losses in recent years, expectations  : of future taxable income, carry forward and carry back potential anticipated future healthcare costs used in estimating the under relevant tax law, expiration period of tax attributes, taxable OPEBplan liability : and temporary differences, and prudent and feasible tax-planning other assumptions involving demographic factors such as strategies.
A valuation allowance is established where there is an retirement, mortality and turnover used in estimating liabilities.
expectation that on the balance of probabilities management Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term considers it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax andlong-term historical trends and known economic and market assets will not be realized.
If actual events differ from managements conditions at the time of the measurement date.
The use of estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the different assumptions would result in different measures of the future, any changes to the valuation allowance could significantly funded status and net cost.
Actual results in the future could differ impact the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
The Companys key assumptions are listed Litigation and legal proceedings in Note 19, Retirement and Other Benefit Programs, to the The Company has a number of lawsuits pending.
The Company Consolidated Financial Statements.
recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable losses when Share-based compensation management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Estimates of The Company makes certain assumptions in order to value and losses may be developed substantially before the ultimate loss is record expense associated with awards made under the shareknown, and are therefore refined each accounting period as based compensation arrangements.
Changes in these additional information becomes known.
In instances where the assumptions may lead to variability with respect to the amount of Company is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of loss, no expense recognized in connection with share-based payments.
loss contingency provision is recorded at that time: however, disclosure would be made if the loss contingency is at least The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to compute the reasonably possible to occur.
These estimates are reviewed estimated fair value of stock option awards.
Using this model, fair quarterly and changed when expectations are revised.
An value is calculated based on assumptions with respect to outcome that deviates from the Companys estimate may result in i expected volatility of stock price, ii the periods of time options an additional expense or credit in a future accounting period.
As are expected to be held prior to exercise expected lives, iii of December 31, 2016, provisions for litigation losses, insurance expected dividend yield on common stock, and iv risk-free claims and other disputes totaled $415.0 million December 31, interest rates.
Shire Annual Report 2016 141 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued The Companys preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the Share-based compensation expense also includes an estimate, assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date, which is made at the time of grant, of the number of awards including measurement period adjustments identified during the thatare expected to be forfeited.
This estimate is revised, if year ended December 31, 2016, is outlined below.
necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ Preliminary fromthose estimates.
Preliminary Measurement values as of Restructuring costs values as of period December 31, June 3, 2016 adjustments 2016 The Company has made estimates and judgments regarding $M $M $M theamount and timing of its restructuring expense and liability, including current and future period termination benefits, pipeline Assets program termination costs and other exit costs to be incurred Current assets: when related actions take place.
Severance and other related Cash and cash equivalents 583.2 583.2 costs are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations Accounts receivable 1,071.7 2.0 1,069.7 as a component of Reorganization costs.
Actual results may differ Inventories 5,341.1 1,447.7 3,893.4 from these estimates.
Other current assets 673.3 97.3 576.0 4. Business Combinations Total current assets 7,669.3 1,547.0 6,122.3 Acquisition of Baxalta Property, plant and On June 3, 2016, Shire acquired all of the outstanding common equipment 5,687.7 235.0 5,452.7 stock of Baxalta for $18.00 per share in cash and 0.1482 Shire Investments 128.2 128.2 American Depository Shares ADSs per Baxalta share, or if Goodwill 6,106.4 5,316.0 11,422.4 aformer Baxalta shareholder properly elected, 0.4446 Shire Intangible assets Ordinary Shares per Baxalta share.
Currently marketed products 24,550.0 2,555.0 21,995.0 Baxalta was a global biopharmaceutical company that focused In-Process Research and ondeveloping, manufacturing and commercializing therapies Development IPR&D 2,940.0 2,210.0 730.0 fororphan diseases and underserved conditions in hematology, Contract based oncology and immunology.
arrangements 72.2 30.0 42.2 Other non-current assets 103.3 51.7 155.0 The preliminary fair value of the purchase price consideration Total assets 47,257.1 1,209.3 46,047.8 consisted of the following: Liabilities Estimated Current liabilities: fair value Accounts payable and $M accrued expenses 1,283.9 38.0 1,321.9 Cash paid to shareholders 12,366.7 Other current liabilities 241.0 113.4 354.4 Fair value of stock issued to shareholders 19,353.2 Long-term borrowings and Fair value of partially vested stock options and capital lease obligations 5,424.9 5,424.9 RSUsassumed 508.8 Deferred tax liability 6,831.7 1,386.4 5,445.3 Contingent consideration payable 169.0 Other non-current liabilities 1,092.1 11.5 1,103.6 Total Purchase Consideration 32,397.7 Total liabilities 14,873.6 1,223.5 13,650.1 The acquisition of Baxalta was accounted for as a business Preliminary fair value of combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
Shire identifiable assets acquired issued 305.2 million shares to former Baxalta shareholders at the and liabilities assumed 32,383.5 14.2 32,397.7 date of the acquisition.
For a more detailed description of the fair Consideration value of the partially vested stock options and RSUs assumed, Preliminary fair value of please see Note 28, Share-based Compensation Plans, to the purchase consideration 32,383.5 14.2 32,397.7 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Baxalta have The purchase price allocation is preliminary pending final been recorded at their preliminary fair value as of June 3, 2016, determination of the fair values of certain assets and liabilities.
The Companys Consolidated Financial Asof December 31, 2016, certain items related to the fair values Statements included the results of Baxalta from the date of ofother current and non-current liabilities and current and deferred acquisition.
The amount of Baxaltas post-acquisition revenues taxes have not been finalized and may be subject to change as included in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations additional information is received and certain tax returns are for the year ended December 31, 2016 is $4,011.6 million.
The finalization of these matters and any additional closing of the acquisition, the Company began integrating Baxalta information received that was existed as of acquisition date may and as such the combined business is now sharing various result in changes to the underlying assets, liabilities and goodwill.
research and development and selling, general and administrative These changes may be material.
The final determination of these functions.
As a result, computing a separate measure of Baxaltas fair values will be completed as soon as possible but no later than stand-alone profitability for periods after the acquisition date is one year from the acquisition date.
142 Shire Annual Report 2016 Intangible Assets For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company expensed The preliminary fair value of the identifiable intangible assets has $791.4 million relating to the acquisition and integration of Baxalta, been estimated using an income approach, which is a valuation which have been recorded within Integration and Acquisition costs technique that provides an estimate of the fair value of an asset in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations.
based on market participant expectations of the incremental after Contingent Consideration tax cash flows an asset would generate over its remaining useful The Company acquired certain contingent obligations classified as life.
The preliminary useful lives for Currently marketed products contingent consideration related to Baxaltas historical business were determined based upon the remaining useful economic lives combinations.
Additional consideration is conditionally due upon of the assets that are expected to contribute to future cash flows.
the achievement of certain milestones related to the development, Currently marketed products totaling $21,995.0 million relate to regulatory, first commercial sale and other sales milestones, which intellectual property IP rights acquired for Baxaltas currently could total up to approximately $1.5 billion.
The Company may also marketed products.
The estimated useful life of the intangible pay royalties based on certain Product sales.
The Company assets related to currently marketed products range from 8 to 23 estimated the fair value of the assumed contingent consideration to years weighted average 21 years, with amortization being be $169.0 million using a probability weighting approach that recorded on a straight-line basis.
considered the possible outcomes based on assumptions related to the timing and probability of the product launch date, discount IPR&D intangible assets totaling $730.0 million represent the value rates matched to the timing of first payment, and probability of assigned to research and development R&D projects acquired.
success rates and discount adjustments on the related cash flows.
The IPR&D intangible assets are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets and will be subject to impairment Inventory testing until completion or abandonment of the projects.
Upon The preliminary estimated fair value of work-in-process and successful completion of each project, the Company will make a finished goods inventory was determined utilizing the Net realizable separate determination of the estimated useful life of the IPR&D value, based on the expected selling price of the inventory, intangible asset and the related amortization will be recorded as an adjusted for incremental costs to complete the manufacturing expense over the estimated useful life.
process and for direct selling efforts, as well as for a reasonable profit allowance.
The preliminary estimated fair value of raw Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in the material inventory was valued at replacement cost, which is equal development of those asset valuations include the estimated net to the value a market participant would pay to acquire the inventory.
cash flows for each year for each asset or product including net revenues, cost of sales, R&D costs, selling and marketing costs, The changes in the estimated fair values for Inventory are primarily working capital asset contributory asset charges and other cash to better reflect the expected selling price of the inventory based flow assumptions, the appropriate discount rate to select in order on market participant assumptions existing as of the acquisition to measure the risk inherent in each future cash flow stream, the date.
The measurement period adjustments did not result from assessment of each assets life cycle, the potential regulatory and intervening events subsequent to the acquisition date.
commercial success risks, competitive trends impacting the asset Retirement plans and each cash flow stream as well as other factors.
The Company assumed pension plans as part of the acquisition of The discount rate used to arrive at the present value at the Baxalta, including defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans acquisition date of the IPR&D intangible assets was 9.5 percent to in the United States and foreign jurisdictions which had a net reflect the internal rate of return and incremental commercial liability balance of $610.4 million.
As of June 3, 2016, the Baxalta uncertainty in the cash flow projections.
No assurances can be defined benefit pension plans had assets with a fair value of $358.5 given that the underlying assumptions used to prepare the million.
discounted cash flow analysis will not change.
For these and other Supplemental disclosure of pro forma information reasons, actual results may vary significantly from estimated The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents results.
the combined results of the operations of Shire and Baxalta as if The measurement period adjustments for Intangible assets reflect the acquisition of Baxalta had occurred as of January 1, 2015.
The changes in the estimated fair value of Currently marketed products unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily and IPR&D.
The changes in the estimated fair values for Intangible indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually assets are primarily to better reflect market participant would have been had the respective acquisitions been completed assumptions about facts and circumstances existing as of the on January 1, 2015.
In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial acquisition date.
The measurement period adjustments did not information does not purport to project the future results of result from intervening events subsequent to the acquisition date.
operations of the combined Company.
Goodwill 2016 2015 Goodwill of $11,422.4 million, which is not deductible for tax Years to December 31 $M $M purposes, includes the expected synergies that will result from Revenues 13,999.6 12,564.7 combining the operations of Baxalta with Shire: intangible assets Net income loss from continuing operations 2,235.9 1,014.2 that do not qualify for separate recognition at the time of the Per share amounts: acquisition: the value of the assembled workforce: and impacted Net income loss from continuing operations by establishing a deferred tax liability for the acquired identifiable per share basic 2.90 1.72 intangible assets which have no tax basis.
Net income loss from continuing operations per share diluted 2.88 1.72 Shire Annual Report 2016 143 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business Combinations continued The acquisition of Dyax was accounted for as a business combination The unaudited pro forma financial information above reflects the using the acquisition method.
The preliminary acquisition-date fair following pro forma adjustments: value consideration was $6,330.0 million, comprising cash paid on closing of $5,934.0 million and the preliminary fair value of the i a n adjustment to increase net income for the year ended contingent value right of $396.0 million maximum payable $646.0 December 31, 2016 by $678.9 million to eliminate integration million.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Dyax and acquisition related costs incurred by Shire and Baxalta have been recorded at their preliminary fair value as of January 22, and a corresponding decrease in net income for the year 2016, the date of acquisition.
The Companys Consolidated ended December 31, 2015 by $678.9 million to give effect to Financial Statements include the results of Dyax as of January 22, the integration and acquisition of Baxalta as if it had occurred 2016.
The amount of Dyaxs post-acquisition revenues included on January 1, 2015: inthe Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 is $77.1 million.
After the closing ii an adjustment to increase net income for the year ended ofthe acquisition, the Company began integrating Dyax and as December 31, 2016 by $897.1 million and a corresponding such the combined business is now sharing various research and decrease for the year ended December 31, 2015 by $1,428.2 development and selling, general and administrative functions.
million, respectively, to reflect amortization of the fair value Asa result, computing a separate measure of Dyaxs stand-alone adjustments for inventory as inventory is sold.
As acquired profitability for periods after the acquisition date is not practical.
inventory turns within 12 months of the acquisition, there has been no expense included in net income for the year ended Since the acquisition date, the Company adjusted its preliminary December 31, 2016: valuation and allocation of purchase price consideration.
The adjustment, which was not material, decreased goodwill and iii an adjustment to increase amortization expense by $330.9 deferred tax liabilities.
The revised preliminary allocation of the total million and $815.0 million for the year ended December 31, purchase price is as follows: 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired: and Fair value iv an adjustment to decrease net income for the year ended $M December 31, 2016 by $42.5 million and for the year ended Assets December 31, 2015 by $357.6 million, respectively, primarily Current assets: related to the additional interest expense and deferred debt Cash and cash equivalents 241.2 issuance costs associated with the debt incurred to partially Accounts receivable 22.5 fund the acquisition of Baxalta and the bonds issued to replace the debt incurred for the acquisition.
Inventories 20.2 Other current assets 8.1 The adjustments above are stated net of their tax effects, Total current assets 292.0 whereapplicable.
Property, plant and equipment 5.8 Acquisition of Dyax Goodwill 2,702.1 On January 22, 2016, Shire acquired all of the outstanding Intangible assets common stock of Dyax for $37.30 per share in cash.
Under the Currently marketed projects 135.0 terms of the merger agreement, former Dyax shareholders may IPR&D 4,100.0 receive additional value through a non-tradable contingent value Contract based royalty arrangements 425.0 right worth $4.00 per share, payable upon U. S. Food and Drug Other non-current assets 28.6 Administration FDA approval of SHP643 formerly DX-2930 in Hereditary Angioedema HAE.
Total assets 7,688.5 Dyax was a publicly-traded, Massachusetts-based rare disease Liabilities biopharmaceutical company primarily focused on the development Current liabilities: of plasma kallikrein pKal inhibitors for the treatment of HAE.
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 30.0 Dyaxs most advanced clinical program was SHP643, a Phase 3 Other current liabilities 1.7 program with the potential for improved efficacy and convenience Deferred tax liability 1,325.4 for HAE patients.
SHP643 has received Fast Track, Breakthrough Other non-current liabilities 1.4 Therapy, and Orphan Drug Designations by the FDA and has also Total liabilities 1,358.5 received Orphan Drug status in the EU.
Dyaxs sole marketed product, KALBITOR, is a pKal inhibitor for the treatment of acute Preliminary fair value of identifiable assets acquired and attacks of HAE in patients 12 years of age and older.
liabilities assumed 6,330.0 Consideration Preliminary fair value of purchase consideration 6,330.0 144 Shire Annual Report 2016 Currently marketed products For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company expensed Currently marketed products totaling $135.0 million relate to $67.7 million relating to the acquisition and integration of Dyax, intellectual property rights acquired for KALBITOR.
The fair value of which has been recorded within Integration and Acquisition costs the currently marketed product has been estimated using an in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations.
income approach, based on the present value of incremental after Supplemental disclosure of pro forma information tax cash flows attributable to KALBITOR.
The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents The estimated useful life of the KALBITOR intangible asset is 18 the combined results of the operations of Shire and Dyax as if years, with amortization being recorded on a straight-line basis.
theacquisitions of Dyax had occurred as of January 1, 2015.
Theunaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily IPR&D indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually The IPR&D asset of $4,100.0 million relates to Dyaxs clinical would have been had the respective acquisitions been completed program SHP643, a Phase 3 program with the potential for at the date indicated.
In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial improved efficacy and convenience for HAE patients.
The IPR&D information does not purport to project the future results of intangible asset is capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived operations of the combined Company.
intangible assets and will be subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects.
The fair value of this 2016 2015 IPR&D asset was estimated based on an income approach, using Years to December 31 $M $M the present value of incremental after tax cash flows expected to Revenues 11,402.5 6,503.8 be generated by this development project.
The estimated cash Net income from continuing operations 792.2 1,056.6 flows have been probability adjusted to take into account the Per share amounts: development stage of completion and the remaining risks Net income from continuing operations per anduncertainties surrounding the future development and share basic 1.03 1.79 commercialization.
Net income from continuing operations per The estimated probability adjusted after tax cash flows used to share diluted 1.02 1.78 estimate the fair value of Intangible assets have been discounted at9 percent.
The unaudited pro forma financial information above reflects the following pro forma adjustments: Royalty rights Intangible assets totaling $425.0 million relate to royalty rights i an adjustment to increase net income for the year ended arising from licensing agreements of a portfolio of product December 31, 2016 by $111.1 million to eliminate acquisition candidates.
This portfolio includes two approved products, related costs incurred by Shire and Dyax and a corresponding marketed by Eli Lilly & Company, and various development-stage decrease in net income for the year ended December 31, 2015 products.
Multiple product candidates with other pharmaceutical by $111.1 million to give effect to the acquisition of Dyax as if it companies are in various stages of clinical development for which had occurred on January 1, 2015: the Company is eligible to receive future royalties and or milestonepayments.
ii an adjustment to decrease net income for the year ended December 31, 2015 by $5.4 million, to reflect amortization of The fair value of these royalty rights has been estimated using the fair value adjustments for inventory as inventory is sold: anincome approach, based on the present value of incremental after-tax cash flows attributable to each royalty right.
iii an adjustment to increase amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 by $1.3 million and a The estimated useful lives of these royalty rights range from seven corresponding adjustment to decrease net income for the year to nine years weighted average eight years, with amortization ended December 31, 2015 by $21.6 million, related to the being recorded on a straight-line basis.
identifiable intangible assets acquired: and Goodwill iv an adjustment to record interest expense for the year ended Goodwill of $2,702.1 million, which is not deductible for tax December 31, 2015 of $81.6 million associated with the debt purposes, includes the expected synergies that will result from incurred to partially fund the acquisition of Dyax and the combining the operations of Dyax with Shire: intangible assets amortization of related deferred debt issuance costs.
thatdo not qualify for separate recognition at the time of the acquisition: the value of the assembled workforce: and impacted The adjustments above are stated net of their tax effects, by establishing a deferred tax liability for the acquired identifiable whereapplicable.
intangible assets which have no tax basis.
Shire Annual Report 2016 145 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business Combinations continued Currently marketed products Acquisition of NPS Currently marketed products totaling $4,640.0 million relate to On February 21, 2015, Shire completed its acquisition of all of intellectual property rights of NATPARA NATPAR and GATTEX theoutstanding common stock of NPS.
As of the acquisition REVESTIVE.
The fair value of the currently marketed products has date, fair value of the cash consideration paid on closing was been estimated using an income approach, based on the present $5,219.6 million.
value of incremental after tax cash flows attributable to each separately identifiable intangible asset.
The acquisition of NPS added GATTEX REVESTIVE and NATPARA NATPAR to Shires portfolio of currently marketed The estimated useful lives of the NATPARA NATPAR and GATTEX products.
GATTEX REVESTIVE is approved in the U. S. and EU for REVESTIVE intangible assets are 24 years, with amortization being the treatment of adults with short bowel syndrome SBS who are recorded on a straight-line basis.
dependent on parenteral support, a rare and potentially fatal Royalty rights gastrointestinal disorder.
NATPARA NATPAR is approved in the Intangible assets totaling $353.0 million relate to the royalty rights U. S. and indicated as an adjunct to calcium and vitamin D to arising from the collaboration agreements with Amgen Inc control hypocalcemia in patients with hypoparathyroidism HPT, Amgen, Janssen Pharmaceutica N. V. Janssen and Kyowa a rare endocrine disease.
Hakko Kirin Co. Ltd Kyowa Hakko Kirin.
Amgen markets The acquisition of NPS was accounted for as a business cinacalcet HCl as Sensipar in the U. S. and as Mimpara in the EU: combination using the acquisition method.
The assets acquired Janssen markets tapentadol as Nucynta in the U. S. : and Kyowa and the liabilities assumed from NPS have been recorded at their Hakko Kirin markets cinacalcet HCI as Regpara in Japan, Hong fair values at the date of acquisition, February 21, 2015.
The Kong, Malaysia, Macau, Singapore, and Taiwan.
From the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements include the results acquisition of NPS, the Company is entitled to royalties from the of NPS from February 21, 2015. net sales of these products.
The purchase price allocation for the acquisition of NPS was The fair value of these royalty rights has been estimated using an finalized in the fourth quarter of 2015.
The Companys allocation of income approach, based on the present value of incremental after the purchase price to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities tax cash flows attributable to each royalty right.
assumed is outlined below: The estimated useful lives of these royalty rights range from four to five years weighted average four years with amortization being Fair value recorded on a straight-line basis.
$M Goodwill Assets Goodwill of $1,551.0 million, which is not deductible for tax Current assets: purposes, includes the expected synergies that will result from Cash and cash equivalents 41.6 combining the operations of NPS with the operations of Shire: Short-term investments 67.0 intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition at the Accounts receivable 33.4 time of the acquisition: the value of the assembled workforce: and Inventories 89.4 impacted by establishing a deferred tax liability for the acquired Other current assets 11.1 identifiable intangible assets which have no tax basis.
Total current assets 242.5 Supplemental disclosure of pro forma information Property, plant and equipment 4.8 The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents Goodwill 1,551.0 the combined results of the operations of Shire and NPS as if the Intangible assets acquisitions of NPS had occurred as of January 1, 2014.
The Currently marketed products 4,640.0 unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily Royalty rights categorized as Other amortized indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually intangibleassets 353.0 would have been had the respective acquisitions been completed on January 1, 2014.
In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial Total assets 6,791.3 information does not purport to project the future results of Liabilities operations of the combined Company.
Current liabilities: 2015 Accounts payable and other current liabilities 75.7 Year to December 31 $M Short-term borrowings and capital lease obligations 27.4 Revenues 6,446.6 Long-term borrowings and capital lease obligations 78.9 Net income from continuing operations 1,293.6 Deferred tax liabilities 1,385.2 Other non-current liabilities 4.5 Per share amounts: Net income from continuing operations per share basic 2.19 Total liabilities 1,571.7 Net income from continuing operations per share diluted 2.18 Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilitiesassumed 5,219.6 Consideration Cash consideration paid 5,219.6 146 Shire Annual Report 2016 The unaudited pro forma financial information above reflects the Pfizer Inc. following pro forma adjustments: In July 2016, the Company licensed the global rights to all indications for SHP647 from Pfizer Inc. SHP647 is an i an adjustment to increase net income for the year ended investigational biologic being evaluated for the treatment of December 31, 2015 by $105.3 million, to eliminate acquisition moderate-to-severe inflammatory bowel disease.
Under the terms related costs incurred by Shire and NPS: of the agreement, Pfizer received an up-front payment of $90.0 million, and is eligible to receive between $75.0 million to $460.0 ii an adjustment to increase net income by $18.8 million for the million in milestone payments based on clinical, regulatory and year ended December 31, 2015, to reflect charges on the commercialization milestones and low double-digit royalties on any unwind of inventory fair value adjustments as acquisition date potential sales if the product is approved.
inventory is sold: and Sangamo BioSciences iii an adjustment to increase amortization expense for the year In September 2015, Shire and Sangamo BioSciences, Inc. ended December 31, 2015 by $22.2 million, related to the Sangamo agreed to revise the collaboration and license identifiable intangible assets acquired.
agreement originally entered into in January 2012 to expedite the The adjustments above are stated net of their tax effects, development of ZFP Therapeutics for hemophilia A and B and whereapplicable.
Under the revised terms, Shire has returned to Sangamo the exclusive world-wide rights to gene targets for the 5.
Collaborative and Other Licensing Arrangements development, clinical testing and commercialization of ZFP The Company is party to certain collaborative and licensing Therapeutics for hemophilia A and B, and has retained rights and arrangements.
In some of these arrangements, Shire and the will continue to develop ZFP Therapeutic clinical leads for licensee are both actively involved in the development and Huntingtons disease and a ZFP Therapeutic for one additional commercialization of the licensed product and have exposure to gene target.
Each company will be responsible for expenses risks and rewards dependent on its commercial success.
associated with its own programs and will reimburse the other for any ongoing services provided.
Sangamo has granted Shire a right Out-licensing arrangements of first negotiation to license the hemophilia A and B programs.
The Company has entered into various licensing arrangements Nomilestone payments will be made on any program and each where it has licensed certain product or intellectual property rights company will pay certain royalties to the other on commercial sales for consideration such as up-front payments, development up to a specified maximum cap.
milestones, sales milestones and or royalty payments.
Under the terms of these licensing arrangements, the Company may receive Precision BioSciences development milestone payments up to an aggregate amount of In June 2016, the Company acquired a strategic immuno-oncology $10.3 million and sales milestones up to an aggregate amount of collaboration with Precision BioSciences Precision, a private $15.7 million.
The receipt of these substantive milestones is biopharmaceutical company based in the United States, uncertain and contingent on the achievement of certain development specializing in genome editing technology.
The Company acquired milestones or the achievement of a specified level of annual net the collaboration through the acquisition of Baxalta.
Together, Shire sales by the licensee.
During the year ended 2016 and 2015, the and Precision will develop chimeric antigen receptor CAR T cell Company received cash related to up-front and milestone therapies for up to six unique targets, with the first program payments of $10.5 million and $19.6 million, respectively.
During expected to enter clinical studies in late 2017.
On a product-bythe year ended 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Company recognized product basis, following successful completion of early-stage milestone income of $17.4 million, $8.9 million and $16.7 million, research activities up to Phase 2, Shire will have exclusive option respectively, in other revenues, and $63.0 million, $51.0 million and rights to complete late-stage development and worldwide $46.5 million, respectively, in product sales for shipment of product commercialization.
Precision is responsible for development costs to the relevant licensee.
for each target prior to option exercise.
Precision also has the right to participate in the development and commercialization of any Collaboration and in-licensing arrangements licensed products resulting from the collaboration through a 50 50 The Company is party to various collaborative and in-licensing co-development and co-promotion option in the United States.
As arrangements, many of which were acquired through the of the balance sheet date, the Company had the potential to make acquisition of Baxalta.
These agreements generally provide for future payments related to option fees and development, regulatory commercialization rights to a product or products being developed and commercial milestones totaling up to $1.5 billion, in addition to by the counterparty, and in exchange often resulted in an upfront future royalty payments on worldwide sales.
payment upon execution of the agreement and an obligation that the Company make future development, regulatory approval or commercial milestone payments as well as royalty payments.
The following is a description of the Companys significant collaboration agreements, including those that were acquired by the Company.
The acquisition-date fair value of the collaboration agreements acquired from Baxalta was included in the IPR&D.
Shire Annual Report 2016 147 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Collaborative and Other Licensing Arrangements Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. continued In June 2016, the Company acquired an exclusive license Symphogen agreement with Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Momenta to In June 2016, the Company acquired a research, option and develop and commercialize biosimilars, including adalimumab commercial agreement with Symphogen, a private BAX 2923, a biosimilar product candidate for HUMIRA biopharmaceutical company headquartered in Denmark that is adalimumab.
The agreement was acquired through the developing recombinant antibodies and antibody mixtures.
The arrangement includes specified funding Company acquired the agreement through the acquisition of by the Company, as well as other responsibilities, relating to Baxalta.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company has development and commercialization activities.
In December 2016, options to obtain exclusive licensing rights for four specified the Company formally terminated its agreement with Momenta and proteins in development for the treatment of immune-oncology agreed to pay $51.2 million, which was paid in January 2017, to diseases as well as two additional proteins that may be selected at satisfy its remaining obligations under the agreement, except with a later date.
Each option is exercisable for a period of 90 days respect to certain clinical and regulatory services.
The Company when each protein is ready for Phase 2 clinical trials.
Symphogen will be responsible for costs associated with those activities is responsible for development costs for each protein until option through April 2017.
As part of this termination, on December 31, exercise, at which point Shire would become responsible for 2016, the Company and Momenta entered into an Asset Return development costs.
and Termination Agreement that provided for the earlier termination of the license agreement and agreed to the terms associated with Each option exercise fee is variable depending on when it is the termination.
exercised, with a maximum exercise price of up to 20.0 million for each protein.
As of the balance sheet date, the Company had the Other arrangements potential to make additional future payments of up to approximately SFJ Pharmaceuticals Group 1.2 billion related to development, regulatory and commercial In June 2015, Baxalta entered into a co-development agreement milestones achieved after option exercise for all six proteins, in with SFJ Pharmaceuticals IX, L. P. a SFJ Pharmaceuticals Group addition to future royalty payments.
company SFJ relating to BAX 2923, whereby SFJ would fund specified development costs related to the BAX 2923 program, in Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc. exchange for payments in the event the product obtains regulatory In June 2016, the Company acquired an exclusive license approval in the United States and Europe.
There were certain agreement with Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Merrimack termination provisions that could have triggered payment of the relating to the development and commercialization of ONIVYDE contingent success payments prior to regulatory approval.
nanoliposomal irinotecan injection, also known as final-IRI or MM-398.
The Company acquired the agreement through the The preliminary fair value of the assumed contingency was acquisition of Baxalta.
The arrangement includes all potential recorded as a long-term liability at June 3, 2016 and as of the indications for final-IRI across all markets with the exception of the balance sheet date, as part of Companys purchase accounting for U. S. and Taiwan.
The first indication being pursued is for the the Baxalta acquisition.
The fair value of the assumed contingency treatment of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer who were on the date of acquisition was $288.6 million.
previously treated with gemcitabine-based therapy.
As of This co-development agreement was terminated by mutual December 31, 2016, the company had potential payments related agreement of the Company and SFJ in September 2016 and the to development, regulatory and commercial milestones of Company made a one-time $288.0 million payment to SFJ in $637.5million.
connection with the termination, in full satisfaction of the Coherus Biosciences, Inc. Companys financial obligations under the agreement.
In June 2016, the Company acquired a license agreement with 6.
Integration and Acquisition Costs Coherus Biosciences, Inc. Coherus to develop and For the year ended December 31, 2016, Shire recorded integration commercialize a biosimilar to ENBREL etanercept.
The and acquisition costs of $883.9 million, primarily due to the Company acquired the agreement through the acquisition of acquisition and integration of Baxalta and Dyax and related Baxalta.
The Company also obtained the right of first refusal to contract termination costs.
The Baxalta integration is estimated to certain other biosimilars in the collaboration.
Under the terms of be completed by mid to late 2019 and the integration of Dyax is the agreement, Coherus was responsible for the development substantially complete as of December 31, 2016. plan, preparation of regulatory filings, and manufacture of the product, subject to certain cost reimbursement by the Company.
As part of the Companys activities to integrate Baxalta, it In September 2016, the Company terminated the licensing terminated certain employees and announced plans to close agreement with Coherus in accordance with its terms.
For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company incurred costs relating to employee termination benefits of $381.2 million including severance and acceleration of stock compensation.
The Baxalta integration activities are ongoing and the Company is continuing to evaluate the total costs expected to be incurred and the time-frame.
148 Shire Annual Report 2016 The following table summarizes the related reserve as of 8.
Results of Discontinued Operations December 31, 2016: Following the divestment of the Companys DERMAGRAFT business in January 2014, the operating results associated with the Severance and DERMAGRAFT business have been classified as discontinued employee operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all benefits periods presented.
$M During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company recorded As of January 1, 2016 a loss from discontinued operations of $276.1 million net of tax of Amount charged to integration costs 267.3 $98.8 million, primarily due to legal contingencies related to the Paid utilized 193.3 divested DERMAGRAFT business.
As of December 31, 2016 74.0 During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded a loss from discontinued operations of $34.1 million net of tax of For the year ended December 31, 2015, Shire recorded net $18.9 million, primarily relating to a change in estimate in relation to integration and acquisition costs of $39.8 million.
The net reserves for onerous leases retained by the Company.
integration and acquisition costs principally comprises costs related to the acquisition and integration of NPS Pharma, During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recorded Viropharma, Dyax and Baxalta of $189.7 million, offset by a net a gain from discontinued operations of $122.7 million net of tax of credit relating to the change in the fair value of contingent $211.3 million.
The gain from discontinued operations for the year consideration liabilities of $149.9 million.
This net credit principally ended December 31, 2014 includes a tax credit of $211.3 million relates to the acquisition of Lumena, reflecting the agreement in the primarily driven by a tax benefit arising following a reorganization third quarter of 2015 to settle all future contingent milestones ofthe former Regenerative Medicine business undertaken in the payable to former Lumena shareholders for a one-time cash fourth quarter of 2014, associated with the divestment of the payment of $90.0 million and the acquisition of Lotus Tissue DERMAGRAFT business in the first quarter of 2014.
This gain was Repair, Inc. reflecting a lower probability of success for the partially offset by costs associated with the divestment of the SHP608 asset for the treatment of Dystrophic Epidermolysis DERMAGRAFT business, including a loss on re-measurement of Bullosa DEB as a result of certain preclinical toxicity findings.
contingent consideration receivable from Organogenesis to its fairvalue.
For the year ended December 31, 2014, Shire recorded integration and acquisition costs of $158.8 million, comprised of $144.1 million 9.
Accounts Receivable, Net relating to the acquisition and integration of ViroPharma and a net Accounts receivable as of December 31, 2016 of $2,616.5 million charge of $14.7 million relating to the change in fair value of December 31, 2015: $1,201.2 million, are stated at the invoiced contingent consideration liabilities mainly related to the acquisition amount and net of provision for discounts and doubtful of SARcode Bioscience Inc. SARcode offset by credits in accountsof $169.6 million December 31, 2015: $55.8 million, relation to the acquisition of FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. reflecting 2014: $48.5million.
the decision to place the Phase 2 clinical trial for SHP602 on clinical hold.
Provision for discounts and doubtful accounts: 7.
Reorganization Costs 2016 2015 2014 $M $M $M The Company incurred reorganization costs totaling $121.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2016.
The costs primarily As of January 1 55.8 48.5 47.9 relate to the planned closure of certain manufacturing facilities and Provision charged tooperations 838.1 424.2 338.2 associated asset impairments of $77.4 million and employee Provision utilization 724.3 416.9 337.6 termination and other costs of $16.2 million.
As of December 31, 2016, cash payments associated with these costs were not As of December 31 169.6 55.8 48.5 significant.
Other restructuring charges recorded, which were not significant for the year ended December 31, 2016, relate to the As of December 31, 2016 accounts receivable included closure of other offices and the related employee relocation.
$102.2million December 31, 2015: $79.0 million related to royaltyreceivable.
In October 2014, the Company announced its plans to relocate positions to Lexington, Massachusetts from its Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania, site and establish Lexington as the Companys U. S. operational headquarters in continuation of the One Shire efficiency program.
During 2015 and 2014, the Company incurred reorganization costs totaling $97.9 million and $180.9 million, respectively, relating to employee involuntary termination benefits and other reorganization costs primarily related to the Companys One Shire business reorganization.
The One Shire reorganization was substantially completed as of December 31, 2015.
Shire Annual Report 2016 149 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Goodwill Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Inventories The following table provides a roll-forward of the goodwill balance: comprise: 2016 2015 $M $M 2016 2015 Years to December 31 $M $M As of January 1 4,147.8 2,474.9 Finished goods 1,380.0 184.9 Acquisitions 14,124.5 1,700.1 Work-in-progress 1,491.0 302.0 Foreign currency translation 384.1 27.2 Raw materials 691.3 148.5 As of December 31 17,888.2 4,147.8 3,562.3 635.4 During 2016, the Company completed the acquisitions of Baxalta As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, there was $18.1 million and and Dyax which resulted in aggregate goodwill of $14,124.5 million $nil amounts of inventory which have been capitalized in advance see Note 4, Business Combinations, to the Consolidated Financial of regulatory approval, respectively.
For a more detailed description of the inventories acquired with 14.
Intangible Assets Baxalta and Dyax, please see Note 4, Business Combinations, The following table summarizes the Companys intangible assets: tothe Consolidated Financial Statements.
Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets marketed intangible Components of prepaid expenses and other current assets are products IPR&D assets Total summarized as follows: $M $M $M $M 2016 2015 December 31, 2016 Years to December 31 $M $M Gross acquired intangible assets 31,217.5 5,746.6 842.2 37,806.3 Income tax receivable 237.5 73.6 Accumulated Prepaid expenses 183.9 35.6 amortization 2,908.6 200.2 3,108.8 Value added taxes receivable 40.3 18.2 Intangible assets, Other current assets 344.6 70.0 net 28,308.9 5,746.6 642.0 34,697.5 806.3 197.4 December 31, 2015 Gross acquired 12.
Property, Plant and Equipment, Net intangible assets 9,371.9 1,362.0 375.0 11,108.9 Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, net of Accumulated accumulated depreciation.
Components of property, plant and amortization 1,852.1 83.5 1,935.6 equipment, net are summarized as follows: Intangible assets, net 7,519.8 1,362.0 291.5 9,173.3 2016 2015 Years to December 31 $M $M Intangible assets are comprised primarily of royalty rights and other Land 337.9 96.7 contract rights associated with Baxalta, Dyax and NPS.
Buildings and leasehold improvements 1,915.4 606.4 The change in the net book value of Intangible assets for the year Machinery, equipment and other 2,547.2 827.4 ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 is shown in the table below: Assets under construction 2,632.5 93.7 Total property, plant and equipment 2016 2015 atcost 7,433.0 1,624.2 $M $M Less: Accumulated depreciation 963.4 796.1 As of January 1, 9,173.3 4,934.4 Property, plant and equipment, net 6,469.6 828.1 Additions 27,462.8 5,474.9 Amortization charged 1,173.4 498.7 Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2016, Impairment charges 8.9 643.7 2015 and 2014 was $292.9 million, $138.5 million and Foreign currency translation 756.3 93.6 $163.5million, respectively.
As of December 31, 34,697.5 9,173.3 In connection with the acquisition of Baxalta, the Company acquired IP rights related to currently marketed products of $21,995.0 million, IPR&D assets of $730.0 million and other contract rights of $42.2 million.
For a more detailed description ofthis acquisition, refer to Note 4, Business Combinations.
150 Shire Annual Report 2016 In connection with the acquisition of Dyax, the Company acquired Carrying value and fair value IP rights related to currently marketed products of $135.0 million, As of December Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 IPR&D assets of $4,100.0 million and royalty rights of $425.0 million.
31, 2016 $M $M $M $M For a more detailed description of this acquisition, refer to Note 4, Business Combinations.
Financial assets: Marketable equity In the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company acquired securities 65.8 65.8 intangible assets totaling $5,474.9 million, primarily relating to the Marketable debt fair value of intangible assets for currently marketed products and securities 15.5 3.6 11.9 royalty rights acquired with NPS Pharma of $4,993.0 million and Contingent IPR&D assets of $475.0 million acquired with Meritage and Foresight.
consideration The Company reviews its intangible assets for impairment receivable 15.6 15.6 whenever events or circumstances suggest that their carrying Derivative contracts 18.0 18.0 value may not be recoverable.
Total 114.9 69.4 29.9 15.6 For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded $643.7 million within R&D expenses in impairment charges related Financial liabilities: to its SHP625 and SHP608 IPR&D assets.
The fair values of the Derivative contracts 8.3 8.3 related contingent consideration liabilities recorded within Contingent integration and acquisition costs were reduced by $203.2 million.
consideration payable 1,058.0 1,058.0 Estimated amortization expense can be affected by various factors Total 1,066.3 8.3 1,058.0 including future acquisitions, disposals of product rights, regulatory approval and subsequent amortization of acquired IPR&D projects, foreign exchange movements and the technological advancement Carrying value and fair value and regulatory approval of competitor products.
The estimated As of December 31, Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 future amortization of acquired intangible assets for the next five 2015 $M $M $M $M years is expected to be as follows: Financial assets: Anticipated future Marketable equity amortization securities 17.2 17.2 $M Contingent 2017 1,592.0 consideration 2018 1,585.2 receivable 13.8 13.8 2019 1,506.5 Derivative contracts 1.9 1.9 2020 1,502.8 Total 32.9 17.2 1.9 13.8 2021 1,496.8 Financial liabilities: Derivative contracts 11.5 11.5 15.
Fair Value Measurement Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a Contingent consideration recurringbasis payable 475.9 475.9 As of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the following financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a Total 487.4 11.5 475.9 recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and Marketable equity and debt securities are included within significant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Shires strategic investment portfolio includes investments in equity securities of certain biotechnology companies and in venture capital funds where the underlying investments are in equity securities of biotechnology companies.
Contingent consideration receivable is included within prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Contingent consideration payable is included within Other current liabilities and Other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For a discussion of the Companys derivative contracts, see Note 16, Financial Instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Shire Annual Report 2016 151 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Fair Value Measurement continued The increase in contingent consideration payable is primarily Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair related to the Companys acquisition of Dyax as well as contingent value amounts.
The estimated fair value amounts shown above are consideration payable assumed in the acquisition of Baxalta.
Other not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company would primarily includes foreign currency adjustments.
realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Companys intent Of the $1,058.0 million of contingent consideration payable as of or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
December 31, 2016, $65.1 million is recorded within Other current The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the liabilities and $992.9 million is recorded within Other non-current fair value of each material class of financial instrument: liabilities in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Marketable equity securities: the fair values of marketable equity Quantitative Information about Assets and Liabilities Measured at securities are estimated based on quoted market prices for Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Using Significant Unobservable those investments.
Inputs Level 3 Marketable debt securities: the fair values of debt securities are Quantitative information about the Companys recurring Level 3 obtained from pricing services or broker dealers who either use fairvalue measurements is included below: quoted prices in an active market or proprietary pricing Fair value at the measurement date applications, which include observable market information for like or same securities.
Financial assets: Significant Contingent consideration receivable: the fair value of the As of December 31, Fair value Valuation unobservable contingent consideration receivable has been estimated using 2016 $M technique inputs Range the income approach using a probability weighted discounted Income cash flow method.
approach Probability Derivative contracts: the fair values of the swap and forward probability weightings foreign exchange contracts have been determined using the Contingent weighted applied to month-end interest rate and foreign exchange rates, respectively.
consideration discounted different sales Contingent consideration payable: the fair value of the contingent receivable CCR 15.6 cash flow scenarios 10 to 90% consideration payable has been estimated using the income Future forecast approach using a probability weighted discounted cash flow consideration receivable based method.
on contractual Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis terms with $0 to Using Significant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 purchaser $21 million The following table provides a roll forward of the fair values of our Assumed contingent consideration receivable and payables which include market participant Level 3 measurements: discount rate 8% Contingent consideration receivable Fair value at the measurement date 2016 2015 $M $M Financial liabilities: Significant Balance at January 1, 13.8 15.9 As of December 31, Fair value Valuation unobservable 2016 $M technique inputs Range Change in fair value included in earnings 1.6 13.6 Other 0.2 15.7 Income approach Balance at December 31, 15.6 13.8 probability Cumulative Contingent weighted probability of Contingent consideration payable consideration discounted milestones payable 1,058.0 cash flow being achieved 6 to 90% 2016 2015 Assumed $M $M market Balance at January 1, 475.9 629.9 participant 1.2 to Additions 565.4 92.8 discount rate 10.5% Change in fair value included in earnings 11.1 149.9 Periods in which milestones Other 5.6 96.9 are expected 2017 to Balance at December 31, 1,058.0 475.9 to be achieved 2040 Forecast quarterly royalties payable on net sales of relevant $0.1 to products $7.5 million 152 Shire Annual Report 2016 Contingent consideration payable represents future milestones and The Company has master netting agreements with a number of royalties the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with counterparties to these foreign exchange contracts and on the various business combinations and license agreements.
occurrence of specified events, the Company has the ability to terminate contracts and settle them with a net payment by one The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration party to the other.
The Company has elected to present derivative receivable and payable could significantly increase or decrease assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis in the Consolidated due to changes in certain assumptions which underpin the fair Balance Sheets.
The Company does not have credit risk related value measurements.
Each set of assumptions is specific to the contingent features or collateral linked to the derivatives.
individual contingent consideration receivable or payable.
Designated Derivative Instruments Financial assets and liabilities that are disclosed at fair value Certain foreign currency forward contracts have been designated The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Companys as cash flow hedges and accordingly, to the extent effective, any financial assets and liabilities are as follows: unrealized gains or losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are reported in AOCI.
Realized gains and losses for the December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 effective portion of such contracts are recognized in cost of sales when the sale of product in the currency being hedged is Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value recognized.
To the extent ineffective, hedge transaction gains and $M $M $M $M losses are reported in Other income expense, net.
The amount ofineffectiveness for the years ended December 31, 2016 and Financial liabilities: December 31, 2015 was immaterial.
Senior notes 12,039.2 11,633.8 Baxalta notes 5,063.6 5,066.5 As of December 31, 2016, the foreign currency forward contracts Capital lease had a total notional value of $78.7 million with a maximum duration obligation 353.6 353.6 13.4 13.4 of six months.
The Company did not have any designated forward contracts as of December 31, 2015.
As of December 31, 2016, the The estimated fair values of Senior Notes and Baxalta Notes were fair value of these contracts was a net asset of $4.2 million 2015: based upon recent observable market prices and are considered $nil.
The portion of the fair value of these foreign currency forward level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
The estimated fair value of the contracts that was included in AOCI in total equity reflected net capital lease obligations is based on Level 2 inputs.
gain of $14.6 million as of December 31, 2016.
The Company expects all contracts to be settled over the next six months and The carrying amounts of other financial assets and liabilities any amounts in AOCI to be reported as an adjustment to revenue approximate their estimated fair value due to their short-term or cost of sales.
The Company considers the impact of its and its nature, such as liquidity and maturity of these amounts, or because counterparties credit risk on the fair value of the contracts as well there have been no significant changes since the asset or liability as the ability of each party to execute its contractual obligations.
was last re-measured to fair value on a non-recurring basis.
As of December 31, 2016, credit risk did not change the fair value of the Companys foreign currency forward contracts.
Financial Instruments Foreign Currency Contracts Due to the global nature of operations, portions of the Companys revenues and operating expenses are recorded in currencies other than the U. S. Dollar.
The value of revenues and operating expenses measured in U. S. Dollars is therefore subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
In order to mitigate these changes, the Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to lock in exchange rates associated with a portion of its forecasted international revenues and operating expenses.
The main trading currencies of the Company are the U. S. Dollar, Euro, Pounds Sterling, Swiss Franc, Canadian Dollar and Japanese Yen.
Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
It is the Companys policy that these exposures are minimized to the extent practicable by denominating transactions in the subsidiarys functional currency.
Where significant exposures remain, the Company uses foreign exchange contracts spot, forward and swap contracts to manage the exposure for balance sheet assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
Shire Annual Report 2016 153 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Financial Instruments continued Designated Derivative Instruments Undesignated Derivative Instruments As of December 31, 2016, interest rate swap contracts with an The Company uses forward contracts to mitigate the foreign aggregate notional amount of $1.0 billion and maturing in June currency risk related to certain balance sheet positions, including 2020 and June 2025 were in place.
These interest rate swap intercompany and third-party receivables and payables.
The contracts were designated as fair value hedges.
The effective Company has not elected hedge accounting for these derivative portion of the changes in the fair value of interest rate swap instruments as the duration of these contracts is typically three contracts are recorded as a component of the underlying Baxalta months or less.
The changes in fair value of these derivatives are Notes with the ineffective portion recorded as income.
Any net reported in earnings.
The notional amount of undesignated interest payments made or received on the interest rate swap derivative instruments was $1,309.1 million and $645.2 million as of contracts are recognized as a component of interest expense in December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
As of December 31, 2016, the fair value of these contracts was a net liability of As of December 31, 2016 the undesignated derivative instruments $1.1million 2015: $nil presented within other non-current liabilities.
included option contracts assumed from Baxalta that were For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company recognized previously designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional amount a loss of $6.0 million as ineffectiveness 2015: $nil related to these of these option contracts totaled $11.2 million as of December 31, contracts as a component of interest expense.
Upon acquisition, the Company did not elect to redesignate these option contracts as cash flow hedges.
In addition, the Undesignated Derivative Instruments company also assumed undesignated forward contracts from During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company entered Baxalta, included in undesignated derivative instruments as of into interest rate swap contracts with a total notional amount of December 31, 2016.
The notional amount of these undesignated $5.1 billion related to the November 2015 Facilities Agreement, forward contracts totaled $776.4 million as of December 31, 2016. which matured during 2016.
The Company did not elect hedge accounting for these contracts.
As of December 31, 2016 and As of December 31, 2016, the fair value of these contracts was a December 31, 2015, the Company did not have any outstanding net asset of $6.7 million 2015: $nil.
For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company recognized $3.2 million Interest Rate Contracts 2015:$nil loss related to these contracts, which was recognized The Company is exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash as a component of Interest expense.
flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in benchmark interest rates relating to its debt obligations on which interest is set The following tables summarize the income statement locations at floating rates.
The Companys policy is to manage this risk to an and gains and losses on the Companys designated and acceptable level.
The Company is principally exposed to interest undesignated derivative instruments for the year ended December rate risk on any borrowings under the Companys various debt 31, 2016.
There were no designated derivatives for the year ended facilities.
Interest on each of these debt obligations is set at floating December 31, 2015. rates, to the extent utilized.
Shires exposure under these facilities is to changes in U. S. Dollar interest rates.
For further details related to interest rates on the Companys various debt facilities, see Note 18, Borrowings and Capital Lease Obligations, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
154 Shire Annual Report 2016 As of December 31, 2016, the Company had in total 155 swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Gain loss reclassified from Gain loss recognized in OCI AOCI into income Location in 2016 2015 Statements of 2016 2015 Years ended December 31 $M $M Operations $M $M Designated Derivative Instruments Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange contracts 14.6 Cost of sales 4.9 Location of gain Gain loss recognized in income loss in Statements of 2016 2015 Years ended December 31 Operations $M $M Fair value hedges Interest rate contracts Interest expense 6.0 Undesignated Derivative Instruments Other expense Foreign exchange contracts income, net 40.2 9.5 Interest rate swap contracts Interest expense 3.2 As of December 31, 2016, $6.2 million of deferred gains, net of tax, on derivative instruments included in AOCI are expected to be recognized in earnings during the next 12 months, coinciding with when the hedged items are expected to impact earnings.
The following table presents the classification and estimated fair value of the Companys derivative instruments as of December 31, 2016: Derivatives in asset positions Derivatives in liability positions Balance Sheet Fair Value Balance Sheet Fair Value location $M location $M Designated Derivative Instruments Prepaid expenses and Accounts payable and Foreign exchange contracts other current assets 4.3 accrued expenses 0.1 Interest rate contracts Long term borrowings 0.1 Long-term borrowings 1.3 4.4 1.4 Undesignated Derivative Instruments Prepaid expenses and Accounts payable and Foreign exchange forward contracts other current assets 13.6 accrued expenses 6.9 18.0 8.3 Shire Annual Report 2016 155 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Financial Instruments continued The future payments related to short and long-term borrowings As of December 31, 2016, the potential effect of rights to offset and capital lease obligations, on maturities, as of December 31, associated with the Interest rate swap and foreign exchange 2016 are as follows: forward contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities $M of $1.7 million, resulting in net derivative assets and derivative liabilities of $16.3 million and $6.6 million, respectively.
Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses 2019 3,341.3 Components of Accounts payable and accrued expenses are 2020 1,035.3 summarized as follows: 2021 3,320.5 Thereafter 9,116.1 2016 2015 Years ended December 31 $M $M Total obligations 23,103.0 Accounts payable and Less: Deferred financing costs 135.2 accrued purchases 911.9 441.4 Total debt obligations 22,967.8 Accrued employee compensation andbenefits payable 574.8 254.5 Senior Notes Issuance Accrued rebates 1,431.3 982.4 On September 23, 2016, Shire Acquisitions Investments Ireland Accrued sales returns 118.4 128.3 Designated Activity Company SAIIDAC, a wholly owned Other accrued expenses 1,276.0 244.0 subsidiary of Shire Plc, issued senior notes with a total aggregate principal value of $12.1 billion SAIIDAC Notes, guaranteed by 4,312.4 2,050.6 Shire plc and, as of December 1, 2016, by Baxalta.
SAIIDAC used the net proceeds to fully repay amounts outstanding under the 18.
Borrowings and Capital Lease Obligations January 2016 Facilities Agreement discussed below, which was used to finance the cash consideration payable related to the 2016 2015 Companys acquisition of Baxalta.
Below is a summary of the Years ended December 31 $M $M SAIIDAC Notes as of December 31, 2016: Short-term borrowings: Aggregate Coupon Effective Carrying Borrowings under the Revolving Credit amount rate interest rate amount Facilities Agreement the RCF 450.0 750.0 $M % % $M Borrowings under the November 2015 Fixed-rate notes Facilities Agreement 2,594.8 due2019 3,300.0 1.900 2.05 3,287.5 Borrowings under the January 2015 Fixed-rate notes Facilities Agreement 750.0 due2021 3,300.0 2.400 2.53 3,283.0 Other borrowings and capital lease Fixed-rate notes obligations short-term portion 23.2 12.7 due2023 2,500.0 2.875 2.97 2,487.9 3,068.0 1,512.7 Fixed-rate notes Long-term borrowings: due2026 3,000.0 3.200 3.30 2,980.8 Senior Notes 12,039.2 12,100.0 12,039.2 Baxalta Notes 5,063.6 Borrowings under the November 2015 The SAIIDAC Notes are senior unsecured obligations and may be Facilities Agreement 2,391.8 redeemed at SAIIDACs option at the greater of 1 100 percent of Capital lease obligations long-term the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest or 2 the portion 347.2 12.2 sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of Other borrowings 58.0 69.9 interest and principal discounted to the date of redemption on a 19,899.8 82.1 semi-annual basis at the applicable treasury rate as defined plus an incremental margin, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid 22,967.8 1,594.8 interest.
The SAIIDAC Notes also contain a change of control provision that may require that SAIIDAC to offer to purchase the SAIIDAC Notes at a price equal to 101 percent of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase under certain circumstances.
On December 1, 2016, Baxalta Inc. a wholly owned subsidiary of Shire Plc, has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the SAIIDAC Notes.
The costs and discount associated with this offering of $60.8 million have been recorded as a reduction to the carrying amount of the debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
These costs will be amortized as additional interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the period from issuance through maturity.
Interest on the SAIIDAC Notes is payable March 23 and September 23 of each year, beginning on March 23, 2017.
156 Shire Annual Report 2016 Baxalta Notes Shire shall also pay i a commitment fee equal to 35 percent of the Shire plc guaranteed senior notes issued by Baxalta with a total applicable margin on available commitments under the RCF for the aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion in connection with the availability period applicable thereto and ii a utilization fee equal to Baxalta acquisition Baxalta Notes.
Below is a summary of the a 0.10 percent per year of the aggregate of all outstanding loans Baxalta Notes as of December 31, 2016: up to an aggregate base currency amount equal to $700.0 million, b 0.15 percent per year of the amount by which the aggregate Aggregate Coupon Effective Carrying base currency amount of all outstanding loans exceeds $700.0 principal rate interest rate amount million but is equal to or less than $1,400.0 million and c 0.30 $M % % $M percent per year of the amount by which the aggregate base Variable-rate notes LIBOR plus currency amount of all outstanding loans exceeds $1,400.0 million.
due 2018 375.0 0.780 2.20 371.6 The RCF includes customary representations and warranties, Fixed-rate notes covenants and events of default, including requirements that due2018 375.0 2.000 2.00 374.8 Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA in respect of the most Fixed-rate notes recently-ended 12-month relevant period each as defined in the due2020 1,000.0 2.875 2.80 1,004.3 RCF must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 except that, following an Fixed-rate notes acquisition fulfilling certain criteria, Shire may elect to increase this due2022 500.0 3.600 3.30 508.4 ratio to a 5.5:1 for the relevant period in which the acquisition was Fixed-rate notes completed b 5.0:1 in respect of the first relevant period following due2025 1,750.0 4.000 3.90 1,772.8 the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed and c Fixed-rate notes 4.5:1 in respect of the second relevant period following the relevant due2045 1,000.0 5.250 5.10 1,031.7 period in which the acquisition was completed and ii ratio of Total Baxalta Notes 5,000.0 5,063.6 EBITDA to Net Interest for the most recently-ended 12-month relevant period each as defined in the RCF must not be less than The effective interest rates above exclude the effect of any related 4.0:1.
Shire elected to increase the Net Debt to EBITDA ratio in interest rate swaps.
The book values above include any premiums connection with the period ending June 30, 2016, following the and adjustments related to hedging instruments.
For further details completion of the acquisition of Baxalta during the period.
related to the interest rate derivative contracts, please see Note 16, Consequently, the applicable ratio for the period ending December Financial Instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revolving Credit Facilities Agreement The RCF restricts, subject to certain exceptions, Shires ability to On December 12, 2014, Shire entered into a $2,100.0 million incur additional financial indebtedness, grant security over its revolving credit facilities agreement the RCF with a number of assets or provide loans grant credit.
Further, any lender may financial institutions.
Shire is an original borrower and original require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is a guarantor under the RCF.
On January 15, 2016, SAIIDAC became change of control of Shire, subject to certain exceptions for additional guarantor to the RCF and on December 1, 2016, Baxalta schemes of arrangement and analogous schemes.
became additional guarantor to the RCF.
Shire has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that become additional Events of default under the RCF include, subject to customary borrowers under the RCF.
As of December 31, 2016, the Company grace periods and materiality thresholds: i non-payment of any utilized $450.0 million of the RCF.
amounts due under the finance documents as defined in the RCF, ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants, iii material The RCF, which terminates on December 12, 2021, may be applied misrepresentation in any of the finance documents, iv failure to towards financing the general corporate purposes of Shire.
The pay, or certain other defaults, under other financial indebtedness, RCF incorporates a $250.0 million U. S. Dollar and Euro swingline v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse facility operating as a sub-limit thereof.
changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition Interest on any loans made under the RCF is payable on the last of Shire as a whole, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any day of each interest period, which may be one week or one, two, successor parent company or any of their respective subsidiaries three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed that are parties to the RCF to perform their obligations thereunder with the lenders.
The interest rate for the RCF is: LIBOR or, in or viii if Shire or any successor parent company or any subsidiary relation to any revolving loan in Euro, EURIBOR : plus 0.30 percent thereof which is a party to the RCF repudiates such agreement or per annum subject to change depending upon i the prevailing other finance document, among others.
ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA each as defined in the RCF in respect Term Loan Facilities Agreement of the most recently completed financial year or financial half year January 2016 Facilities Agreement and ii the occurrence and continuation of an event of default in On January 11, 2016, Shire as original guarantor and original respect of the financial covenants or the failure to provide a borrower, entered into an $18.0 billion bridge facilities agreement compliance certificate.
with various financial institutions the January 2016 Facilities Agreement.
The January 2016 Facilities Agreement comprised two credit facilities: i a $13.0 billion term loan facility originally maturing on January 11, 2017 January 2016 Facility A and ii a $5.0 billion revolving loan facility originally maturing on January 11, 2017 January 2016 Facility B.
On April 1, 2016, SAIIDAC became additional borrower and additional guarantor to the January 2016 Facilities Agreement.
Shire Annual Report 2016 157 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Borrowings and Capital Lease Obligations continued in connection with the period ending June 30, 2016, following the The January 2016 Facility A was utilized to finance the cash completion of the acquisition of Baxalta during the period and ii consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of Baxalta on ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest in respect of the most recently June 3, 2016 in the amount of $12,390.0 million.
The net proceeds ended 12 month relevant period, each as defined in the November from the issuance of the SAIIDAC Notes were used to fully repay 2015 Facilities Agreement, must not be less than 4.0:1. the amounts outstanding under the January 2016 Facility A in The November 2015 Facilities Agreement restricts, subject to September 2016.
The January 2016 Facility B was canceled certain exceptions, Shires ability to incur additional financial effective July 11, 2016, in accordance with its terms.
indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide loans grant November 2015 Facilities Agreement credit.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment On November 2, 2015, Shire as original guarantor and original ofits participation if there is a change of control of Shire, borrower entered into a $5.6 billion facilities agreement with subjecttocertain exceptions for schemes of arrangement and various financial institutions the November 2015 Facilities analogousschemes.
The November 2015 Facilities Agreement comprises Events of default under the November 2015 Facilities Agreement three credit facilities: i a $1.0 billion term loan facility of which, include, subject to customary grace periods and materiality following the exercise of the one year extension option in the thresholds: i non-payment of any amounts due under the finance amount of $400.0 million, $600.0 million matured and was repaid documents as defined in the November 2015 Facilities on November 2, 2016 and $400.0 million matures on November 2, Agreement, ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants, iii material 2017 November 2015 Facility A, ii a $2.2 billion amortizing term misrepresentation in any of the finance documents, iv failure to loan facility which matures on November 2, 2017 November 2015 pay, or certain other defaults, under other financial indebtedness, Facility B and iii a $2.4 billion amortizing term loan facility which v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse matures on November 2, 2018 November 2015 Facility C. changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition On January 15, 2016, SAIIDAC became additional borrower and of Shire as a whole, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any additional guarantor to the November 2015 Facilities Agreement successor parent company or any of their respective subsidiaries and on December 1, 2016, Baxalta became an additional that are parties to the November 2015 Facilities Agreement to guarantor to the November 2015 Facilities Agreement.
As of perform their obligations thereunder or viii if Shire or any December 31, 2016, the November 2015 Facilities Agreement was successor parent company or any subsidiary thereof which is a fully utilized by SAIIDAC as borrower in the amount of $5.0 billion to party to the November 2015 Facilities Agreement repudiates the finance the cash consideration payable and certain costs related to November 2015 Facilities Agreement or any other finance the acquisition of Dyax.
On January 30, 2017, SAIIDAC made its document, among others.
first repayment installment of $400.0 million of November 2015 January 2015 Facility Agreement Facility B in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
On January 11, 2015, Shire entered into an $850.0 million term Interest on any loans made under the November 2015 Facilities facility agreement with various financial institutions the January Agreement is payable on the last day of each interest period, which 2015 Facility Agreement with an original maturity date of January may be one week or one, two, three or six months, or as otherwise 10, 2016.
The maturity date was subsequently extended to July 11, agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate applicable is LIBOR plus, 2016 in line with the provisions within the January 2015 Facility in the case of the November 2015 Facility A, 0.55 percent per Agreement allowing the maturity date to be extended twice, at annum, in the case of the November 2015 Facility B, 0.65 percent Shires option, by six months on each occasion.
per annum and, in the case of the November 2015 Facility C, 0.75 The January 2015 Facility Agreement was used to finance Shires percent per annum, in each case subject to change depending on acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
On i the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA each as defined in the September 28, 2015, the Company reduced the January 2015 November 2015 Facilities Agreement in respect of the most Facility Agreement by $100.0 million.
In January 2016 and at recently completed financial year or financial half year and ii the various points thereafter, the Company canceled parts of the occurrence and continuation of an event of default in respect of the January 2015 Facilities Agreement.
On February 22, 2016, the financial covenants or failure to provide a compliance certificate.
Company repaid the remaining balance of $100.0 million of the The November 2015 Facilities Agreement includes customary January 2015 Facilities Agreement in full.
representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, Capital lease obligations including requirements that Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA in As of December 31, 2016, capital lease obligations predominantly respect of the most recently ended 12-month relevant period, related to the obligations assumed as part of the Baxalta each as defined in the November 2015 Facilities Agreement, must acquisition.
These leases are primarily related to office and not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1, except that following an acquisition manufacturing facilities.
As of December 31, 2016, the total capital fulfilling certain criteria, Shire may elect to increase this ratio to a lease obligations, including current portions, were $353.6 million.
5.5:1 for the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed, b 5.0:1 in respect of the first relevant period following Short-term uncommitted lines of credit Credit lines the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed, Shire Shire has access to various Credit lines from a number of banks has elected to increase this ratio in connection with the period which are available to be utilized from time to time to provide ended June 30, 2016, following the completion of the acquisition short-term cash management flexibility.
These Credit lines can be ofBaxalta during the period and c 4.5:1 in respect of the second withdrawn by the banks at any time.
The Credit lines are not relied relevant period following the relevant period in which the upon for core liquidity.
As of December 31, 2016, these Credit lines acquisition was completed, Shire has elected to increase this ratio were not utilized.
Retirement and Other Benefit Programs Accumulated Benefit Obligation Information The Company sponsored various pension and other postThe pension obligation represents the projected benefit obligation employment benefit OPEB plans in the United States and other PBO as of December 31, 2016.
The PBO incorporates countries during 2016.
The Company did not report any pension assumptions relating to future compensation levels.
The accumulated orOPEB obligations as of December 31, 2015. benefit obligation ABO is the same as the PBO except that it does not include assumptions relating to future compensation Reconciliation of Pension and OPEB Plan Obligations and levels.
The ABO for all the U. S. pension plans was $373.2 million Funded Status asof December 31, 2016.
The ABO for the International pension The benefit plan information is for the year ended plans was $457.9 million as of December 31, 2016.
The funded status figures and ABO disclosed above reflect all of U. S. International the companys pension plans.
The following ABO and plan asset pensions pensions OPEB information includes only those individual plans that have an ABO $M $M $M in excess of plan assets as of December 31, 2016.
Benefit obligations 2016 Beginning of period Year ended December 31 $M Assumption of benefit obligations from Baxalta 441.6 503.8 23.5 U. S. Service cost 13.0 18.6 0.8 ABO 373.2 Interest cost 11.1 3.2 0.6 Fair value of plan assets 228.4 International Participant contributions 3.2 Actuarial gain loss 10.6 29.8 0.1 ABO 437.5 Benefit payments 1.6 9.1 Fair value of plan assets 176.2 Settlements 3.2 Expected Net Pension and OPEB Plan Payments for the Next Curtailments 73.4 10Years Foreign exchange 18.3 Other 4.0 113.0 U. S. International pensions pensions OPEB End of Period 384.1 581.4 25.0 $M $M $M Fair value of plan assets 2017 3.6 21.1 0.2 Beginning of period 2018 5.7 18.6 0.3 Assumption of plan assets from 2019 7.6 19.9 0.5 Baxalta 218.0 140.5 2020 9.7 20.1 0.6 Actual return on plan assets 8.3 2.0 2021 11.7 22.7 0.7 Employer contributions 0.4 12.3 2022 through 2026 85.3 124.1 4.6 Participant contributions 3.2 Total expected benefit payments Benefit payments 1.6 9.1 for next 10 years 123.6 226.5 6.9 Settlements 3.2 Foreign exchange 3.8 The expected net benefit payments reflect the Companys share of Other 3.3 56.0 the total net benefits expected to be paid from the plans assets End of period 228.4 197.9 for funded plans or from the Companys assets for unfunded plans as of December 31, 2016.
The federal subsidies relating to Funded status at the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization December 31, 2016 155.7 383.5 25.0 Act are not expected to be significant.
Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets Amounts Recognized in AOCI The pension and OPEB plans gains or losses not yet recognized in Other current liabilities 0.6 8.8 0.2 net periodic benefit cost are recognized on a net of tax basis in Other non-current liabilities 155.1 374.7 24.8 AOCI and will be amortized from AOCI to net periodic benefit cost Net liability recognized at in the future.
December31, 2016 155.7 383.5 25.0 The Company had net pre-tax gains included in AOCI as of Curtailments represent the adoption of an amendment to the December 31, 2016 of $14.0 million related to its U. S. pension companys U. S. pension plans which eliminates the estimate of plans and net pre-tax losses included in AOCI as of December 31, future compensation levels beyond the December 31, 2017 2016 of $10.3 million and $0.1 million related to its International effective date.
plans and OPEB plan, respectively.
Refer to Note 20, Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, for the net of tax balances included in Other primarily represents the recognition of an additional defined AOCI as of December 31, 2016.
The Company does not expect to benefit plan in Switzerland.
amortize a significant amount of AOCI to net periodic benefit cost in 2017.
Shire Annual Report 2016 159 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Retirement and Other Benefit Programs continued Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Net Following is a summary of the net of tax amounts recorded in OCI Periodic Benefit Cost relating to the pension and OPEB plans during 2016: The following weighted-average assumptions were used in determining net periodic benefit cost for 2016.
U. S. International pensions pensions OPEB U. S. International $M $M $M pensions pensions OPEB % % % Gain loss arising during the year, net of tax expense of $30.9 million Discount rate 4.1 1.0 4.2 for U. S. plans and $3.8 million for Expected return on plan assets 7.0 4.5 n a international plans 52.5 14.2 Rate of compensation increase 3.8 3.2 n a Reclassification of gain to income Annual rate of increase in the statement, net of tax benefit of per-capita cost n a n a 6.5 $25.9 million for U. S. plans 43.5 Rate decreased to n a n a 5.0 Pension and other employee by the year ended n a n a 2022 benefits gain loss, net of tax 9.0 14.2 The Company establishes the expected return on plan assets Gain loss arising during the year includes a loss of $34.6 million, assumption based primarily on a review of historical compound net of tax, related to the recognition of a defined benefit plan average asset returns, both Company-specific and the broad inSwitzerland.
market and considering the Companys asset allocations, an The reclassification of gain to income statement represents the analysis of current market and economic information and future recognition of the curtailment gain associated with the U. S. expectations.
pension plans as further described above.
The effect of a one percent change in the assumed healthcare cost Net Periodic Benefit Cost trend rate would not have a significant impact on the OPEB plan The net periodic benefit cost is from June 3, 2016, the date the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2016 or the plans service Company assumed the obligations from Baxalta, through and interest cost during 2016.
December 31, 2016: Pension Plan Assets A committee of members of senior management is responsible for June 3, 2016 through December 31, 2016 supervising, monitoring and evaluating the invested assets of the U. S. International Companys funded pension plans.
The committee abides by pensions pensions OPEB policies and procedures relating to investment goals, targeted $M $M $M asset allocations, risk management practices, allowable and Net periodic benefit cost prohibited investment holdings, diversification, use of derivatives, the relationship between plan assets and benefit obligations, and Service cost 13.0 18.6 0.8 other relevant factors and considerations.
In the United States, Interest cost 11.1 3.2 0.6 Goldman Sachs Asset Management acts as an outsourced chief Expected return on plan assets 8.9 3.9 investment officer oCIO to perform the day-to-day management Curtailment and other 69.4 20.0 of pension assets.
Net periodic benefit cost 54.2 37.9 1.4 The policies and procedures include the following: Curtailment and other relates to the recognition of a curtailment Ability to pay all benefits when due: gain of $69.4 million associated with the U. S. pension plans as Targeted long-term performance expectations relative to described above and a loss of $20.0 million for the recognition of a applicable market indices, such as Standard & Poors, Russell, defined benefit plan in Switzerland.
MSCI EAFE, and other indices: Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Benefit Targeted asset allocation percentage ranges summarized Obligations at the Measurement Date below, and periodic reviews of these allocations: The following weighted-average assumptions were used in calculating Specified investment holding and transaction prohibitions for the December 31, 2016 measurement date benefit obligations.
example, private placements or other restricted securities, securities that are not traded in a sufficiently active market, short U. S. International sales, certain derivatives, commodities and margin transactions : pensions pensions OPEB Specified portfolio percentage limits on holdings in a single % % % corporate or other entity generally 5 percent, except for holdings Discount rate 4.2 1.0 4.3 in U. S. government or agency securities : Rate of compensation increase 3.8 2.9 n a Specified average credit quality for the fixed-income securities Annual rate of increase in the portfolio at least Aby Standard & Poors or A3 by Moodys : per-capita cost n a n a 6.3 Specified portfolio percentage limits on foreign holdings: and Rate decreased to n a n a 5.0 Periodic monitoring of oCIO performance and adherence to by the year ended n a n a 2022 policies.
160 Shire Annual Report 2016 Plan assets are invested using a total return investment approach International pension planassets whereby a mix of equity securities, debt securities and other Balance investments are used to preserve asset values, diversify risk and as of exceed the planned benchmark investment return.
Investment December 31, strategies and asset allocations are based on consideration of plan 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 liabilities, the plans funded status and other factors, such as the $M $M $M $M plans demographics and liability durations.
Investment Assets performance is reviewed on a quarterly basis and asset allocations are reviewed at least annually.
Fixed income Cash and cash equivalents 6.2 6.2 Plan assets are managed in a balanced equity and fixed income Government agency issues 0.6 0.6 portfolio.
The target allocations for plan assets are 75 percent in an Corporate bonds 21.1 21.1 equity portfolio and 25 percent in a fixed income portfolio.
The Mutual funds 24.4 24.4 policy includes an allocation range based on each individual investment type within the major portfolios that allows for a Equity variance from the target allocations of approximately 5 percent.
Common stock: The equity portfolio may include common stock of U. S. and Large cap 19.9 19.9 international companies, common collective trust funds, mutual Mid cap 1.6 1.6 funds, hedge funds and real asset investments.
The fixed income Total common stock 21.5 21.5 portfolio may include cash, money market funds with an original Mutual funds 40.6 40.6 maturity of three months or less, U. S. and foreign government and Real estate funds 12.1 8.4 governmental agency issues, common collective trust funds, corporate bonds, municipal securities, derivative contracts and Other holdings 71.4 71.4 asset-backed securities.
Fair value of pension planassets 197.9 122.8 71.4 While the committee provides oversight over plan assets for U. S. and international plans, the summary above is specific to the plans The assets and liabilities of the Companys pension plans are in the U. S. The plan assets for international plans are managed and valued using the following valuation methods: allocated by the entities in each country, with input and oversight provided by the committee.
Investment category Valuation methodology Cash and cash equivalents These largely consist of a short-term investment The following pension assets are recorded at fair value on a fund, U. S. Dollars and foreign currency.
The fair recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical value of the short-term investment fund is based assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and on the net asset value significant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Investments that are Government agency issues Values are based on quoted prices in an measured at fair value using the net asset value per share or its activemarket equivalent as a practical expedient are not classified in the fair Corporate bonds Values are based on the valuation date in an value hierarchy.
active market U. S. pension plan assets Common stock Values are based on the closing prices on the valuation date in an active market Balance Mutual funds Values are based on the net asset value of as of the units held in the respective fund which are December 31, obtained from active markets or as reported by 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 the fund managers $M $M $M $M Collective trust funds and Values are based on the net asset value of the Assets hedge funds units held at year end Fixed income Real estate funds The value of these assets are either determined by the net asset value of the units held in the Cash equivalents 5.7 respective fund which are obtained from active Collective trust funds 46.4 markets or based on the net asset value of the Mutual fund 11.4 underlying assets of the fund provided by the Equity fund manager Collective trust funds 100.4 Other holdings These primarily consist of insurance contracts whose value is based on the underlying assets Mutual fund 53.4 16.5 and other holdings valued primarily based on Hedge funds 11.1 reputable pricing vendors that typically use Fair value of pension plan pricing matrices or models assets 228.4 16.5 Shire Annual Report 2016 161 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Retirement and Other Benefit Programs continued Expected Pension and OPEB Plan Funding The Companys funding policy for its pension plans is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet legal funding requirements, plus any additional amounts that the Company may determine to be appropriate considering the funded status of the plans, tax deductibility, the cash flows generated by the Company, and other factors.
Volatility in the global financial markets could have an unfavorable impact on future funding requirements.
The Company has no obligation to fund its principal plans in the U. S. in 2017.
The Company did not make any significant voluntary contributions to its U. S. Qualified plan from the June 3, 2016 acquisition date through December 31, 2016.
During 2017, the Company expects to make cash contributions to its pension plans of at least $11.0 million, primarily related to its international plans, and expects to have net cash outflows relating to its OPEB plan of less than $1.0 million.
The Company continually reassesses the amount and timing of any discretionary contributions, which could be significant in any period.
The table below details the funded status percentage of the Companys pension plans as of December 31, 2016, including certain plans that are unfunded in accordance with the guidelines of the Companys funding policy outlined above.
United States International Qualified Non-qualified Funded Unfunded plan plan plans plans Total $M $M $M $M $M Fair value of plan assets 228.4 n a 197.9 n a 426.3 PBO 352.8 31.3 413.7 167.7 965.5 Funded status percentage 65% n a 48% n a 44% U. S. Defined Contribution Plans In addition to benefits provided under the pension and OPEB plans described above, the Company provides benefits under defined contribution plans.
The Companys most significant defined contribution plans are in the United States.
The Company recognized expenses related to U. S. defined contribution plans of $68.1 million, $38.9 million and $34.3 million during 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The changes in Accumulated other comprehensive loss AOCL, net of their related tax effects, in the years ended December 31, 2016 are shown below: Unrealized holding gain loss Accumulated Foreign currency Pension and on availableother translation other employee for-sale Hedging comprehensive adjustment benefits securities activities loss $M $M $M $M $M As of January 1, 2016 182.1 1.7 183.8 Current period change: Other comprehensive loss income before reclassification 1,323.3 38.3 8.3 9.9 1,266.8 Amounts reclassified from AOCL 43.5 3.5 47.0 Net current period other comprehensive loss income 1,323.3 5.2 8.3 6.4 1,313.8 As of December 31, 2016 1,505.4 5.2 6.6 6.4 1,497.6 162 Shire Annual Report 2016 The following is a summary of the amounts reclassified from AOCL to net income during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016: Amounts reclassified from AOCL 2016 Location of impact in $M Statements of Operations Pension and employee benefits Curtailment gain 69.4 Integration and acquisition costs 69.4 Total before tax 25.9 Tax expense 43.5 Net of tax Losses on hedging activities Foreign exchange contracts 4.9 Cost of sales 4.9 Total before tax 1.4 Tax expense 3.5 Net of tax Total reclassifications for the period 47.0 Total net of tax The changes in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of their related tax effects, in the year ended December 31, 2015 are shownbelow: Unrealized holding gain loss Accumulated Foreign currency Pension and on availableother translation other employee for-sale Hedging comprehensive adjustment benefits securities activities loss $M $M $M $M $M As of January 1, 2015 25.7 5.8 31.5 Current period change: Net current period other comprehensive loss income 156.4 4.1 152.3 As of December 31, 2015 182.1 1.7 183.8 The amounts reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive loss and into the Statements of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 were immaterial.
Earnings Per Share The following table reconciles net income and the weighted average Ordinary Shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented: 2016 2015 2014 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 603.5 1,337.5 3,282.8 Loss gain from discontinued operations 276.1 34.1 122.7 Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share 327.4 1,303.4 3,405.5 Weighted average number of shares: Basic 770.1 590.4 586.7 Effect of dilutive shares: Share-based awards to employees 6.1 2.7 4.6 Diluted 776.2 593.1 591.3 Earnings per Ordinary Share basic Earnings from continuing operations 0.78 2.27 5.60 Loss gain from discontinued operations 0.35 0.06 0.21 Earnings per Ordinary Share basic 0.43 2.21 5.81 Earnings per Ordinary Share diluted Earnings from continuing operations 0.77 2.26 5.55 Loss gain from discontinued operations 0.35 0.06 0.21 Earnings per Ordinary Share diluted 0.42 2.20 5.76 Shire Annual Report 2016 163 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Earnings Per Share continued The operating results associated with the DERMAGRAFT Weighted average number of basic shares excludes shares businesshave been classified as discontinued operations for purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust and those under the allperiods presented.
shares buy-back program, which are both presented by Shire as The reconciliation of income from continuing operations before treasury stock.
Share-based awards to employees are calculated income taxes and equity in earnings losses of equity method using the treasury method.
investees at the statutory tax rate to the provision for income taxes The share equivalents not included in the calculation of the diluted is shown in the table below: weighted average number of shares are shown below: 2016 2015 2014 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M 2016 2015 2014 No.
of Income from continuing operations shares shares shares before income taxes and equity in Years ended December 31 Ms Ms Ms losses earnings of equity method investees in millions 486.1 1,385.8 3,336.2 Share-based awards to employees 4.1 3.4 0.3 Certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of % % % diluted EPS because a their exercise prices exceeded Shires 1 Statutory tax rate 25.0 25.0 25.0 average share price during the calculation period or b the required U. S. R&D credit 25.9 7.7 2.5 performance conditions were not satisfied as of the balance sheet 2 Intra-group items 44.4 18.6 6.3 date.
Other permanent items 4.5 1.1 0.2 U. S. Domestic Manufacturing Deduction 4.0 1.6 0.5 22.
Taxation Acquisition related Costs 8.5 1.1 0.7 The components of pre-tax income from continuing operations are as follows: Irish Treasury Operations 8.6 0.6 0.7 Change in valuation allowance 7.9 1.0 0.8 2016 2015 2014 3 Difference in taxation rates 13.0 7.3 3.4 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M Change in provisions for uncertain Ireland 214.3 11.4 1,472.0 taxpositions 1.5 0.4 0.2 United States 75.3 975.8 1,025.9 Prior year adjustment 1.0 1.6 0.1 Rest of the world 347.1 421.4 838.3 Change in fair value of contingent consideration 3.7 3.8 0.3 486.1 1,385.8 3,336.2 Change in tax rates 5.1 0.9 0.5 The provision for income taxes on continuing operations by Receipt of break fee 12.3 location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years ended December 31, Settlement with Canadian revenue 2016, 2015 and 2014 consisted of the following: authorities 7.0 Other 1.2 2016 2015 2014 Provision for income taxes on Years ended December 31 $M $M $M continuingoperations 25.9 3.3 1.7 Current income taxes: 1 In addition to being subject to the Irish corporation tax rate of 25 percent in Ireland 5.2 0.8 2016, the Company is also subject to income tax in other territories in which U. S. federal tax 318.6 191.7 291.8 the Company operates, including: Canada 15 percent : France 33.3 percent : Germany 15 percent : Italy 27.5 percent : Japan 23.9 percent : U. S. state and local taxes 30.2 17.3 25.3 Luxembourg 21.0 percent : the Netherlands 25 percent : Belgium 33.99 Rest of the world 68.9 17.8 290.9 percent : Singapore 17 percent : Spain 28 percent : Sweden 22 percent : Switzerland 8.5 percent : United Kingdom 20 percent and the U. S. 35 Total current taxes 422.9 227.6 26.2 percent.
The rates quoted represent the statutory federal income tax rates Deferred taxes: in each territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or surtaxes or other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport Ireland 18.2 38.8 to represent the effective tax rate for the Company in each territory.
U. S. federal tax 433.8 151.2 39.7 2 Intra-group items principally relate to the effect of intra-territory eliminations, the pre-tax effect of which has been eliminated in arriving at the Companys U. S. state and local taxes 74.1 1.7 2.9 consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes, Rest of the world 59.3 10.2 6.9 noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees.
The Companys intra-group items primarily arise from its Total deferred taxes 549.0 181.5 29.9 acquisition of third parties that result in income and expense being received Total income taxes 126.1 46.1 56.1 and taxed in different jurisdictions at various tax rates.
3 The expense from the difference in taxation rates reflects the impact of the The Company determines the amount of income tax expense or higher income tax rates in the United States offset by the impact of lower foreign jurisdiction income tax rates.
benefit allocable to continuing operations using the incremental approach.
The amount of income tax attributed to discontinued As detailed in the income tax rate reconciliation above, the operations is disclosed in Note 8, Results of Discontinued Operations.
Companys effective tax rate differs from the Irish statutory rate each year due to foreign taxes that are different than the Irish statutory rate and certain operations that are subject to tax incentives.
In addition, the effective tax rate can be impacted eachperiod by certain discrete factors and events, which, in 2016, 164 Shire Annual Report 2016 included items related to the Baxalta acquisition, primarily the that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover reversal of deferred tax liabilities including in higher tax territories the resolution of these audits.
However, theresolution of these for inventory and intangible asset amortization, as well as audits could have a significant impact onthefinancial statements acquisition and integration costs.
These same items are also ifthe settlement differs from the amount reserved.
causing the significant reduction in the U. S. pre-tax book income The Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related that is evident in the components of pre-tax income table above.
tounrecognized tax positions within income taxes.
During the Provisions for uncertain tax positions years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Company The Company files income tax returns in the Republic of Ireland, recognized a charge credit to income taxes of $4.2 million, the U. S. both federal and state and various other jurisdictions $0.8million and $ 103.1 million in interest and penalties and the seefootnote 1 to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With Company had a liability of $30.8 million, $26.5 million and fewexceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax $25.8million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued examinations by tax authorities for years before 2012, although the asof December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Company is contesting certain matters pertaining to 2011 and As part of Baxaltas separation from Baxter, a tax sharing agreement 2012.
Tax authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of was entered into, effective on the date of separation, which auditing the Companys tax returns for fiscal periods primarily after employs a tracing approach to determine which company isliable 2011, with the earliest being 2007: these tax audits cover primarily for certain pre-separation income tax items.
If a liability arises and transfer pricing, but may include other areas.
is attributable to the former Baxalta business, the liability would be In respect of the receipt of the break fee from AbbVie in 2014, the allocated to Baxalta.
If the liability arises and is attributable to Company has obtained advice that the break fee should not be Baxters Medical Device, Renal or Biosurgery businesses, it would taxable in Ireland.
The Company has therefore concluded that no be allocated to Baxter.
The table above only reflects pre-acquisition tax liability should arise and did not recognize a tax charge in the liabilities for Baxalta for which it was the primary obligor.
The relevant tax return was submitted Deferred taxes on September 23, 2015.
The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities While tax audits remain open, the Company also considers it and their balance sheet classifications, as of December 31, are reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities asfollows: resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits, 2016 2015 however, an estimate of such an increase cannot be made.
Years ended December 31 $M $M A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of Deferred tax assets: unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: Deferred revenue 16.8 2.4 2016 2015 2014 Inventory & warranty provisions 88.7 36.1 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M 1 Losses carried forward including tax credits 1,907.3 980.3 Provisions for sales deductions and doubtful Balance as of January 1 216.3 207.8 355.2 accounts 191.6 178.0 Increases based on tax positions Intangible assets 79.7 5.9 relatedto the current year 34.3 27.0 20.3 Share-based compensation 137.5 40.6 Decreases based on tax positions takenin the current year Excess of tax value over book value of assets 14.2 0.6 Increases for tax positions taken in Accruals and provisions 448.6 130.4 prioryears 0.5 3.9 64.2 Other 78.5 19.3 Decreases for tax positions taken in Gross deferred tax assets 2,962.9 1,393.6 prior years 17.8 30.6 211.0 Less: valuation allowance 569.4 416.1 Acquisition related items 29.5 17.9 Decreases resulting from settlements 2,393.5 977.5 with the taxing authorities 24.4 1.2 9.4 Deferred tax liabilities: Decreases as a result of expiration of Intangible assets 9,073.4 2,850.6 the statute of limitations 2.4 4.4 0.6 Excess of book value over tax value in inventory 150.3 10.3 Foreign currency translation 1 Excess of book value over tax value of assets and adjustments 0.3 4.1 10.9 investments 1,304.2 153.9 2 Balance as of December 31 236.3 216.3 207.8 Other 91.6 47.6 1 Foreign currency translation adjustments are recognized within Other Net deferred tax liabilities 8,226.0 2,084.9 Comprehensive Income.
2 Balance sheet classifications: As of December 31, 2016, approximately $227 million 2015: $207 million, 2014: $181 million of which would affect the effective rate if recognized.
Deferred tax assets non-current 96.7 121.0 Deferred tax liabilities non-current 8,322.7 2,205.9 The Company considers it reasonably possible that certain audits currently being conducted could be concluded in the next 12 months, 8,226.0 2,084.9 and as a result the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits recorded 1 Losses carried forward excludes $38.9 million of deferred tax assets as of as of December 31, 2016 could decrease by upto approximately December 31, 2016 2015: $30.4 million, related to net operating losses that $50.0 million.
As of the balance sheet date, theCompany believes result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders equity.
Shire Annual Report 2016 165 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2016 22.
Taxation continued Year ended December 31 $M As of December 31, 2016, the Company had a valuation allowance of $569.4 million 2015: $416.1 million to reduce its deferred tax Within 1 year 0.3 assets to estimated realizable value.
These valuation allowances Within 1 to 2 years 2.6 related primarily to operating losses, capital losses and tax-credit Within 2 to 3 years 45.5 carry-forwards in Switzerland 2016: $176.8 million: 2015: $131.5 Within 3 to 4 years 12.8 million : U. S. 2016: $155.1 million: 2015: $125.9 million : Ireland Within 4 to 5 years 52.6 2016: $22.4 million: 2015: $22.2 million : and other foreign tax Within 5 to 6 years 55.3 jurisdictions 2016: $215.1 million: 2015: $136.5 million.
After 6 years 1,269.6 Management is required to exercise judgment in determining Indefinitely 468.6 whether deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized.
Avaluation allowance is established where there is an expectation The Company does not provide for deferred taxes on the excess that on the balance of probabilities management considers it is ofthe financial reporting over the tax basis of investments in foreign more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not be subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration.
In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, December 31, 2016, that excess totaled $16.6 billion 2015: management weighs all available positive and negative evidence $11.3billion.
As part of the acquisition of Baxalta, the Company including cumulative losses in recent years, projections of future determined that $1.5 billion of Baxaltas pre-acquisition earnings taxable income, carry forward and carry back potential under incurred outside of the U. S. are not permanently reinvested and relevant tax law, expiration period of tax attributes, taxable temporary has recorded an associated deferred tax liability of $503.0 million differences, and prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies.
on these earnings as part of the business combination accounting for the acquisition.
The determination of additional deferred taxes The net increase in valuation allowances of $153.3 million includes on the Companys permanently reinvested earnings that have not i increases of $166.4 million relating to operating losses in various been provided is not practicable.
jurisdictions for which management considers that there is insufficient positive evidence related to the factors described above 23.
Segment Reporting to overcome negative evidence, such as cumulative losses and Shire comprises a single operating and reportable segment expiration periods and therefore it is more likely than not that engaged in the research, development, licensing, manufacturing, therelevant deferred tax assets will not be realized in full, and marketing, distribution and sale of innovative specialist medicines ii decreases of $13.1 million primarily related to U. S. state tax to meet significant unmet patient needs.
This is consistent with losses, which based on the assessment of factors described how the financial information is viewed for the purposes of above, now provides sufficient positive evidence to support the evaluating performance, allocating resources, and planning and losses are more likely than not to be realized.
forecasting future periods and how the operations are managed by As of December 31, 2016, based upon a consideration of the the Executive Committee Shires chief operating decision-maker.
factors described above, management believes it is more likely This segment is supported by several key functions: a Pipeline than not that the Company will realize the benefits of these Committee, an In-line Committee, a Technical Operations group deductible differences, net of the valuation allowances.
The Pipeline Committee consists of R&D the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable and Corporate Development and is responsible for prioritizing the couldbe adjusted in the future if these factors are revised in activities towards progressing and acquiring development futureperiods.
programs across a variety of therapeutic areas.
The Technical The approximate tax effect of NOLs, capital losses and tax credit Operations group is responsible for the Companys global supply carry-forwards as of December 31, are as follows: chain.
The In-line Committee focuses on commercializing marketed products and support of the development of the 2016 2015 Companys pipeline candidates.
The business is also supported by Years ended December 31 $M $M a simplified, centralized corporate function group.
None of these U. S. federal tax 687.1 149.3 functional groups meets all of the criteria to be considered an U. S. state tax 170.7 77.2 individual operating segment.
Republic of Ireland 45.1 61.2 Geographic information Foreign tax jurisdictions 614.9 434.9 Revenues based on the geographic location from which the R&D and other tax credits 389.5 257.7 saleoriginated : 1,907.3 980.3 2016 2015 2014 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M The approximate gross value of net operating losses NOLs andcapital losses at December 31, 2016 is $10,843.1 million Ireland 41.6 14.1 18.5 2015:$5,562.3 million.
The tax effected NOLs, capital losses United States 7,666.9 4,659.2 4,174.1 andtax credit carry-forwards shown above have the following Rest of the world 3,688.1 1,743.4 1,829.5 expiration dates: Total revenues 11,396.6 6,416.7 6,022.1 166 Shire Annual Report 2016 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments based on their relevant geographic location: 2016 2015 Years ended December 31 $M $M Ireland 41.2 1.7 United States 6,449.4 751.3 Rest of the world 84.0 82.2 Total 6,574.6 835.2 Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers accounted for greater than 10 percent of the Companys Product sales: 2016 2015 2014 2016 % Product 2015 % Product 2014 % Product Years ended December 31 $M sales $M sales $M sales AmerisourceBergen Corp 1,695.3 16 1,048.3 17 759.2 13 McKesson Corp. 1,336.7 12 1,044.1 17 1,021.0 18 Cardinal Health Inc. 1,052.2 10 796.9 13 979.9 17 Amounts outstanding in respect of these material customers were as follows: 2016 2015 Years ended December 31 $M $M AmerisourceBergen Corp 427.2 171.5 McKesson Corp. 312.9 193.1 Cardinal Health Inc. 278.4 181.7 In the periods set out below, revenues by major product were as follows: 2016 2015 2014 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M Product sales: HEMOPHILIA 1,789.0 INHIBITOR THERAPIES 451.8 Hematology total 2,240.8 CINRYZE 680.2 617.7 503.0 ELAPRASE 589.0 552.6 592.8 FIRAZYR 578.5 445.0 364.2 REPLAGAL 452.4 441.2 500.4 VPRIV 345.7 342.4 366.7 KALBITOR 52.2 Genetic Diseases total 2,698.0 2,398.9 2,327.1 VYVANSE 2,013.9 1,722.2 1,449.0 ADDERALL XR 363.8 362.8 383.2 Other Neuroscience 112.8 115.4 372.3 Neuroscience total 2,490.5 2,200.4 2,204.5 IMMUNOGLOBULIN THERAPIES 1,143.9 BIO THERAPEUTICS 372.2 Immunology total 1,516.1 LIALDA MEZAVANT 792.1 684.4 633.8 PENTASA 309.4 305.8 289.7 GATTEX REVESTIVE 219.4 141.7 NATPARA 85.3 24.4 Other Internal Medicine 349.3 344.3 375.3 Internal Medicine total 1,755.5 1,500.6 1,298.8 Oncology total 130.5 Ophthalmology Total 54.4 Total Product sales 10,885.8 6,099.9 5,830.4 Shire Annual Report 2016 167 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Receipt of Break Fee performed by the organizations as determined by patient On July 18, 2014, the Boards of AbbVie and Shire announced that enrollment levels and related activities.
they had agreed the terms of a recommended combination of ii Contract manufacturing Shire with AbbVie, subject to a number of conditions including As of December 31, 2016, the Company had committed to pay approval by shareholders and regulators.
On the same date, Shire approximately $528.9 million December 31, 2015: $325.0 million and AbbVie entered into a co-operation agreement in connection in respect of contract manufacturing.
The Company expects to pay with the recommended combination.
On October 16, 2014, the $220.4 million of these commitments in 2017.
Board of AbbVie confirmed that it had withdrawn its recommendation of its offer for Shire as a result of the anticipated iii Other purchasing commitments impact of a U. S. Treasury Notice on the benefits that AbbVie As of December 31, 2016, the Company had committed to pay expected from its offer.
As AbbVies offer was conditional on the approximately $1,745.4 million December 31, 2015: $485.0 million approval of its stockholders, and given their Boards decision to for future purchases of goods and services, predominantly relating change its recommendation and to advise AbbVies stockholders to active pharmaceutical ingredients sourcing.
The Company to vote against the offer, there was no realistic prospect of expects to pay $436.6 million of these commitments in 2017. satisfying this condition.
Accordingly, Shires Board agreed with iv Investment commitments AbbVie to terminate the cooperation agreement on October 20, As of December 31, 2016, the Company had outstanding 2014.
The Company entered into a termination agreement with commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and AbbVie, pursuant to which AbbVie paid the break fee due under partnerships for amounts totaling $76.4 million December 31, the cooperation agreement of approximately $1,635.4 million.
The 2015: $22.0 million which may all be payable in 2017, depending Company has obtained advice that the break fee should not be on the timing of capital calls.
The investment commitments include taxable in Ireland.
The Company has therefore concluded that no additional funding to certain VIEs of which Shire is not the primary tax liability should arise and has not recognized a tax charge in the beneficiary.
The relevant tax return was submitted on September 23, 2015. v Capital commitments As of December 31, 2016, the Company had committed to spend 25.
Commitments and Contingencies $100.5 million December 31, 2015: $60.0 million on capital Leases projects.
Future minimum lease payments under operating leases as of December 31, 2016 are presented below: 26.
Legal and Other Proceedings The Company expenses legal costs when incurred.
Operating leases The Company recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable $M losses when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
2017 155.5 When the estimated loss lies within a range, the Company records a loss contingency provision based on its best estimate of the 2018 117.2 probable loss.
If no particular amount within that range is a better 2019 98.7 estimate than any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
2020 89.2 Estimates of losses may be developed before the ultimate loss is 2021 82.7 known, and are therefore refined each accounting period as Thereafter 441.9 additional information becomes known.
An outcome that deviates 985.2 from the Companys estimate may result in an additional expense or release in a future accounting period.
As of December 31, 2016, The Company leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain provision for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes equipment under operating leases expiring through 2032.
Lease totaled $415.0 million December 31, 2015: $9.9 million.
and rental expense amounted to $100.8 million, $40.7 million and The Companys principal pending legal and other proceedings are $32.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and disclosed below.
The outcomes of these proceedings are not 2014, respectively, which is predominately included in SG&A always predictable and can be affected by various factors.
For expenses in the Companys Consolidated Statement of Operations.
those legal and other proceedings for which it is considered at Letters of credit and guarantees least reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, the As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company had irrevocable Company discloses the possible loss or range of possible loss in standby letters of credit and guarantees with various banks and excess of the recorded loss contingency provision, if any, where insurance companies totaling $139.7 million and $48.0 million such excess is both material and estimable.
being the contractual amounts, respectively, providing security for VYVANSE the Companys performance of various obligations.
These In May and June 2011, Shire was notified that six separate obligations are primarily in respect of the recoverability of insurance Abbreviated New Drug Applications ANDAs were submitted claims, lease obligations and supply commitments.
under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market Commitments generic versions of all approved strengths of VYVANSE.
The i Clinical testing notices were from Sandoz, Inc. Sandoz : Amneal As of December 31, 2016, the Company had committed to pay Pharmaceuticals LLC Amneal : Watson Laboratories, Inc. : approximately $1,037.4 million December 31, 2015: $490.0 million Roxane Laboratories, Inc. Roxane : Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
Mylan : and Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis Inc. collectively, The timing of these payments is dependent upon actual services Actavis.
Since filing suit against these ANDA filers, along with API suppliers Johnson Matthey Inc. and Johnson Matthey 168 Shire Annual Report 2016 Pharmaceuticals Materials collectively, Johnson Matthey, Shire the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District has been engaged in a consolidated patent infringement litigation Court for the Southern District of Florida against Watson in the U. S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against the Laboratories Inc. -Florida and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. aforementioned parties except Watson, who withdrew their ANDA.
Watson Pharma, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. collectively, Watson were subsequently added as defendants.
A trial took On June 23, 2014, the U. S. District Court for the District of New place in April 2013 and on May 9, 2013 the trial court issued a Jersey granted Shires summary judgment motion holding that decision finding that the proposed generic product infringes the 18claims of the patents-in-suit were both infringed and valid.
patent-in-suit and that the patent is not invalid.
Watson appealed OnSeptember 24, 2015, the U. S. Court of Appeals of the Federal the trial courts ruling to the CAFC and a hearing took place on Circuit CAFC affirmed that ruling against all of the ANDA filers December 2, 2013.
The ruling of the CAFC was issued on March and remanded the case to the trial court for further proceedings.
28, 2014 overruling the trial court on the interpretation of two claim The CAFC ruling overturned the infringement ruling against terms and remanding the case for further proceedings.
Shire Johnson Matthey and the case against Johnson Matthey has been petitioned the Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari which was dismissed.
Following remand to the U. S. District Court for the granted on January 26, 2015.
The Supreme Court also vacated the District of New Jersey, the case has been fully resolved as a result CAFC decision and remanded the case to the CAFC for further of the Stipulation of Dismissal and Final Judgment entered by the consideration in light of the Supreme Courts recent decision in court on August 30, 2016 in which the court imposed an injunction Teva v. Sandoz.
On June 3, 2015, the CAFC reaffirmed their preventing all of the ANDA filers Sandoz, Roxane, Amneal, Actavis previous decision to reverse the District Courts claims and Mylan from launching generic versions of VYVANSE until the construction and remanded the case to the U. S. District Court for expiration of these patents in 2023. the Southern District of Florida.
A trial was held on January 25-27, 2016.
A ruling was issued on March 28, 2016 upholding the validity In March, April and May 2016, Shire received Notices of Allegation of the patent and finding that Watsons proposed ANDA product NOA from Apotex Inc. Apotex informing Shire that Apotex infringes the patent-in-suit.
Watson appealed the ruling to the filed an Abbreviated New Drug Submission ANDS with Health CAFC and oral argument took place on October 5, 2016.
The Canada seeking approval to market a generic version of VYVANSE CAFC issued a ruling on February 10, 2017 reversing the trial in Canada.
Within the requisite 45 days, Shire filed for orders of courts ruling of infringement and remanding the case to the lower prohibition and, as a result, a 24-month stay of approval of the court for entry of a ruling of non-infringement.
ANDS has been put into effect.
Apotex has withdrawn the first two NOAs.
On July 4, 2016, Apotex filed a Statement of Claim in In April 2012, Shire was notified that Mylan had submitted an ANDA Federal Court seeking a judicial declaration of invalidity and under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a noninfringement of Shires Canadian patent relating to VYVANSE generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire which Shire is actively defending.
filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida against Mylan.
A Markman hearing took place on On April 14, 2016, Shire prevailed in upholding its European patent December 22, 2014.
A Markman ruling was issued on March 23, for ELVANSE.
Shire initially prevailed in an opposition to its patent 2015.
Following a four-day bench trial in September 2016 in the lodged by Johnson Matthey plc, Generics UK Limited trading as U. S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, the court Mylan and Hexal AG and on April 14, 2016 Shire prevailed in the handed down a ruling that Mylans proposed generic version of appeal.
The decision by the appeals board of the European Patent LIALDA infringes claims 1 and 3 of the Orange Book listed patent Office is final and cannot be further appealed.
In connection with this finding of infringement, the LIALDA court also entered an injunction prohibiting Mylan from making, In May 2010, Shire was notified that Zydus Pharmaceuticals U. S. A. using, selling, offering for sale and or importing their proposed Inc. Zydus had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman ANDA product before the expiration of the patent June 8, 2020 Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
and requiring that the approval date for their ANDA be on or after Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. the expiration of the patent.
District Court for the District of Delaware against Zydus and Cadila In March 2015, Shire was notified that Amneal had submitted an Healthcare Limited, doing business as Zydus Cadila.
A Markman ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market hearing took place on January 29, 2015 and a Markman ruling was a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, issued on July 28, 2015.
A trial took place between March 28, 2016 Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the District of New and April 1, 2016.
On September 16, 2016, the court issued its Jersey against Amneal, Amneal Pharmaceuticals of New York, LLC ruling finding that the proposed generic product would not infringe and Amneal Pharmaceuticals Co. India Pvt.
Ltd. A Markman the asserted claims.
Shire has appealed the ruling to the CAFC.
hearing took place on July 25, 2016.
A Markman ruling was issued In February 2012, Shire was notified that Osmotica Pharmaceutical on August 2, 2016.
No trial date has been set.
Corporation Osmotica had submitted an ANDA under the In September 2015, Shire was notified that Lupin Ltd. had Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia requisite 45 day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District against Osmotica.
A Markman hearing took place on August 22, Court for the District of Maryland against Lupin Ltd. Lupin 2013 and a Markman ruling was issued on September 25, 2014.
Pharmaceuticals Inc. Lupin Inc. and Lupin Atlantis Holdings SA.
The court issued an Order on February 27, 2015 in which all dates AMarkman hearing originally scheduled to take place on in the scheduling order have been stayed.
November 10, 2016, was canceled and has not yet been In March 2012, Shire was notified that Watson Laboratories rescheduled.
Inc. -Florida had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within Shire Annual Report 2016 169 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Legal and Other Proceedings continued On August 3, 2012, and September 8, 2014, ViroPharma and Shire On October 7, 2015 the Patent Trial and Appeals Board PTAB respectively received Civil Investigative Demands from the FTC ofthe United States Patent Office instituted an inter partes review requesting additional information related to this matter.
Shire fully IPR of U. S. Patent 6,773,720 which is the patent-in-suit in the cooperated with the FTCs investigation.
The IPR process is designed to On February 7, 2017, the FTC filed a Complaint against Shire re-assess the patentability of the claims of the patent.
A decision alleging that ViroPharma engaged in conduct in violation of U. S. from the PTAB was issued on October 5, 2016 upholding the validity antitrust laws arising from a citizen petition ViroPharma filed in of the patent in view of the challenges put forward in the IPR.
2006 related to Food & Drug Administrations policy for evaluating DERMAGRAFT bioequivalence for generic versions of VANCOCIN.
The complaint The Department of Justice, including the U. S. Attorneys Office for seeks equitable relief, including an injunction and disgorgement.
the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division and the U. S. At this time, Shire is unable to predict the outcome or duration of Attorneys Office for Washington, DC, is conducting civil and this case.
criminal investigations into the sales and marketing practices of Advanced BioHealing Inc. ABH relating to DERMAGRAFT, which ELAPRASE Shire acquired in June 2011.
Following the disposal of the On September 24, 2014, Shires Brazilian affiliate, Shire DERMAGRAFT business in January 2014, Shire retained certain Farmaceutica Brasil Ltda, was served with a lawsuit brought by the legacy liabilities including any liability that may arise from this State of Sao Paulo and in which the Brazilian Public Attorneys investigation.
office has intervened alleging that Shire is obligated to provide certain medical care including ELAPRASE for an indefinite period Over the several years, Shire has been cooperating fully with these at no cost to patients who participated in ELAPRASE clinical trials investigations and engaged in discussions with the Department of in Brazil, and seeking recoupment to the Brazilian government for Justice about a resolution.
In August 2016, Shire announced that it amounts paid on behalf of these patients to date, and moral reached an agreement with the Department of Justice on a damages associated with these claims.
proposal for a civil settlement in the amount of $350.0 million plus interest.
Shire established a reserve for the expected settlement, On May 6, 2016, the trial court judge ruled on the case and $340.0 million in the second quarter of 2016 and an additional dismissed all the claims under the class action, which was $10.0 million in the third quarter of 2016. appealed.
On February 20, 2017, the Court of Appeals in Sao Paulo issued the final decision on merit in favor of Shire and Shire entered into a final settlement agreement with the dismissed all the claims under the class action.
The final decision Department of Justice, announced in January 2017, in the amount can be appealed through the Superior Court of Justice or through of $350.0 million, plus interest.
Shire paid $345.5 million of the the Supreme Court: however, the likelihood of one of those courts settlement amount in January 2017 and anticipates the remaining accepting the appeal is remote.
payment will be made in the second quarter of 2017.
The agreement resolves the civil investigations conducted by the 27.
Shareholders Equity Department of Justice, including multiple U. S. Attorneys Offices Authorized common stock and relevant federal and state agencies.
The authorized stock of Shire plc as of December 31, 2016, was The agreement also resolves the federal governments claims 1,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares and 2 subscriber Ordinary Shares.
under the federal False Claims Act and the DERMAGRAFT Dividends Medicaid-related claims for states that opt into the settlement.
Under Jersey law, Shire plc is entitled to fund payments of Some states with DERMAGRAFT Medicaid-related claims might dividends from any source other than a capital redemption reserve elect to opt out of the final settlement and those states claims or nominal capital account subject to the Directors authorizing the would remain unresolved.
distribution making a solvency statement in the prescribed Under the terms of Shires merger agreement with ABH, $37.5 statutory form.
As of December 31, 2016, Shire plcs distributable million was held in escrow at the close of the transaction as an reserves were approximately $4.4 billion.
indemnity against potential breaches of representations and Treasury stock warranties on the part of ABH.
After the civil settlement with the The Company records the purchase of its own shares by the DOJ had been finalized, in January 2017, Shire made a formal EBTand under the share buy-back program as a reduction of demand upon ABHs former equityholders to return the entire shareholders equity based on the price paid for the shares.
amount held in escrow to Shire.
In February 2017, Shire and ABHs AsofDecember 31, 2016, the EBT held 0.5 million Ordinary equityholders entered into a settlement agreement, pursuant to Shares 2015: 0.6 million: 2014: 0.7 million and 0.2 million ADSs which ABHs equityholders agreed to release the full $37.5 million 2015:0.2million: 2014: 0.3 million and shares held under the escrow to Shire and Shire will release the claims against ABH share buy-back program were 8.0 million Ordinary Shares equityholders upon receipt of the entire amount held in escrow.
During the years ended VANCOCIN December 31, 2016 and 2015 the Company did not purchase any On April 6, 2012, ViroPharma Incorporated ViroPharma received shares either through the EBT or under any share buy-back program.
a notification that the United States Federal Trade Commission Income Access Share Arrangements FTC was conducting an investigation into whether ViroPharma Shire has put into place income access share arrangements which had engaged in unfair methods of competition with respect to enable ordinary shareholders, other than ADS holders, to choose VANCOCIN which Shire acquired in January 2014.
Following the whether they receive their dividends from Shire plc, a company tax divestiture of VANCOCIN in August 2014, Shire retained certain resident in the Republic of Ireland, or from Shire liabilities including any potential liabilities related to the VANCOCIN Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Old Shire, a Shire group company citizen petition.
170 Shire Annual Report 2016 Old Shire has issued one income access share to the Income Access ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including Trust the IAS Trust, which is held by the trustee of the IAS Trust any Irish withholding tax consequences.
The mechanics of the arrangements are as follows: In the year ended December 31, 2016, Old Shire paid dividends i I f a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on its totaling $150.6 million 2015: $127.7 million: 2014: $112.8 million on Ordinary Shares, an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a the income access share to the Trustee in an amount equal to the dividend on the income access share to the Trustee, and such dividend ordinary shareholders would have received from Shire plc.
amount is paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders who have elected to receive dividends under these arrangements.
Share-based Compensation Plans The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc The following table shows the total share-based compensation to its ordinary shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal expense see below for types of share-based awards included in to the amount paid to its ordinary shareholders by the Trustee.
the Consolidated Statements of Operations: ii If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid 2016 2015 2014 by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders is less than the total Years ended December 31 $M $M $M amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire plc on Cost of product sales 23.3 7.6 8.5 its Ordinary Shares, Shire plc will be obliged to pay a dividend Research and development 46.9 28.6 22.2 on the relevant Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of Selling, general and administrative 67.1 37.4 35.9 the shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid on the Ordinary Integration and acquisitions costs 181.2 Shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the Reorganization costs 26.7 30.4 rate of 20 percent or such lower rate as may be applicable under exemptions from withholding tax contained in Irish law.
Total 318.5 100.3 97.0 Less tax 85.3 28.4 23.8 iii An ordinary shareholder is entitled to make an income access share election such that he she will receive his her dividends 233.2 71.9 73.2 which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc under these arrangements from Old Shire.
This can be done by submitting As of December 31, 2016, the Company incurred total expense of an IAS arrangement election form containing information on $223.1 million 2015: $nil, 2014: $nil related to replacement and the participating shareholders pursuant to Shire plcs Articles other awards held by Baxalta employees as further described of Association.
This includes integration related expenses of $171.0 million due to the acceleration of unrecognized expense associated with The ADS Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders certain employees impacted by the integration.
of ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs as of Shire under the income access share arrangements will not, under December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. current legislation, be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
As of December 31, 2016, $244.2 million 2015: $115.3 million, If a holder of ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old 2014: $83.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost Shire under the income access share arrangements, he she must relating to non-vested awards is expected to be recognized over a withdraw his her Ordinary Shares from the ADS program prior to period of three years.
the dividend record date set by the ADS Depositary and request delivery of the Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
This will enable him her Share-based compensation plans to receive dividends from Shire plc.
Prior to February 28, 2015, the Company granted stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs and performance share awards It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old PSAs over Ordinary Shares and ADSs to Executive Directors Shire will distribute dividends on the income access share to the and employees under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan PSP Parts Trustee for the benefit of all ordinary shareholders who make an A and B.
The SARs and PSAs granted under the PSP Parts A and income access share election in an amount equal to what would B to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance have been such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends and service criteria.
Substantially all SARs and PSAs granted to from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election.
employees are exercisable subject only to service criteria.
If any dividend paid on the income access share and or paid to the ordinary shareholders is less than such ordinary shareholders The principal terms and conditions of SARs and PSAs under the entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the PSP Parts A and B are as follows: i the contractual life of SARs is income access share election, the dividend on the income access seven years, ii the vesting period of SARs and PSAs granted to share will be allocated pro rata among the ordinary shareholders employees below the level of Executive Vice President allows for and Shire plc will pay the balance to these ordinary shareholders graded vesting over three years, and iii awards granted to the level by way of dividend.
In such circumstances, there will be no of Executive Director and Executive Vice President cliff vest after grossing up by Shire plc in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc three years, of which awards to the level of Executive Director will not compensate those ordinary shareholders for, any adverse contain performance conditions based on growth in Non GAAP consequences including any Irish withholding tax consequences.
adjusted return on invested capital Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and Shire will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements at amortization Non GAAP EBITDA.
In 2014, the Company granted any time, in which case the full Shire plc dividend will be paid PSAs under the PSP to employees at Executive Vice President directly by Shire plc to those ordinary shareholders including the level and to a select group of senior employees, which are Depositary who have made an income access share election.
In exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
These such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in PSAs cliff vest after three years and contain performance respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those conditions as explained above.
Shire Annual Report 2016 171 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Share-based Compensation Plans continued Since February 28, 2015, the Company has granted awards under the Shire Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP.
Under the LTIP, the Company grants stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs, restricted stock units RSUs and performance share units PSUs over Ordinary Shares and ADSs to Executive Directors and employees.
The PSUs granted under the LTIP and SARs granted to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
RSUs granted under the LTIP and SARs granted to all other employees are exercisable subject only to service criteria.
The principal terms and conditions of SARs, RSUs and PSUs granted under the LTIP are as follows: i the contractual life of SARs is seven years, ii the vesting period of SARs and RSUs granted to employees below the level of Executive Vice President allows for graded vesting, and iii all SARs granted to Executive Directors and employees at Executive Vice President level and all PSUs granted cliff vest after three years and, with the exception of SARs granted to employees at Executive Vice President level, contain performance conditions based on Product sales and Non GAAP EBITDA targets: a Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin is also used at the end of the three year performance period to assess the underlying performance of the Company before determining the final vesting levels for awards with performance conditions.
In addition, a further two year holding period will apply to all awards granted to Executive Directors post vesting.
The Company also operates a Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan and UK Irish Sharesave Plans.
Replacement Awards Issued to Baxalta Employees In connection with the acquisition of Baxalta and pursuant to the merger agreement associated with the acquisition, outstanding Baxaltaequity awards held by Baxalta employees or employees of Baxter were canceled and exchanged for Shire equity awards.
The outstanding Baxalta equity awards consisted primarily of stock options and RSUs and hence were replaced with Shires stock options and RSUs.
The replacement Shire awards generally have the same terms and conditions including vesting as the former Baxalta awards for which they were exchanged.
The value of the replacement share-based awards granted was designed to generally preserve both the intrinsic value and the fair value of the award immediately prior to the acquisition.
Following the acquisition, the Company records share-based compensation expense associated with the acquisition-date fair value of acquired Baxalta employees replacement options and RSUs that is attributable to post-acquisition service requirements, as well as share-based compensation expense for post-acquisition service requirements associated with certain remaining unvested Baxter share-based awards held by the acquired Baxalta employees.
The portions of the acquisition-date fair values of the awards that are attributable to post-combination service are recognized over the remaining service period of the awards.
The following awards were outstanding as of December 31, 2016: Compensation Number of Expiration period type awards from date of issue Vesting period 3 years graded vesting and or 3 years cliff vesting subject to performance criteria for Executive Stock-settled SARs SARs 10,646,207 7 years Directors only UK Irish Sharesave Plans Stock options 119,300 6 months after vesting 3 or 5 years Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 411,900 On vesting date 1 to 5 years Baxalta Replacement Options Stock options 10,692,426 10 years 3 years graded vesting Stock-settled SARs and Stock-settled SARs and stock options stock options 21,869,833 3 years graded vesting, 3years cliff vesting subject to performance criteria for Executive Directors and certainsenior RSUs, PSUs and PSAs RSUs, PSUs and PSAs 2,346,511 3 years employees only 3 years graded vesting Baxalta Replacement RSUs RSU 1,630,146 3 years RSUs PSUs and PSAs 3,976,657 172 Shire Annual Report 2016 Stock-settled SARs and stock options Baxalta Replacement Options SARs under LTIP and PSP Part A The replacement stock options were issued consistent with the Stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs granted to vesting conditions of the replaced award as explained above.
Executive Directors, are exercisable subject to service and Replacement stock options had contractual terms of 10 years from performance criteria.
The majority of stock options outstanding vested in one-third increments over a three year period, although In respect of any award made to Executive Directors under the certain awards cliff vest or have longer or shorter service periods.
LTIP, performance criteria are based on Product sales and Non The fair value on the acquisition date attributable to postGAAP EBITDA targets, with a Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin.
combination service, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, is In respect of any award made to Executive Directors under the recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining PSP Part A, performance criteria are based on growth in Non vesting period.
GAAP Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
These performance measures are an important measure of the Companys ability to A summary of the status of the Companys SARs and stock meet the strategic objective to grow value for all of its stakeholders.
options including replacement awards as of December 31, 2016 and of the related activity during the period then ended is Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are presented below: not subject to performance conditions and are only subject to service conditions.
Weighted average Once awards have vested, participants will have until the seventh exercise Intrinsic anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
price Number value Year ended December 31, 2016 of shares M UK Irish Sharesave Plans Sharesave Plans Outstanding as of beginning Options granted under the Sharesave Plans are granted with an ofperiod 52.02 7,796,496 exercise price equal to 80 percent and 75 percent of the midGranted 42.37 6,506,762 market price on the day before invitations are issued to UK and Ireland employees, respectively.
Employees may enter into three Exercised 39.83 4,717,106 orfive year savings contracts.
Baxalta Replacement Options 34.30 13,328,592 Forfeited 48.49 1,044,911 Shire Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Outstanding as of end of period 38.98 21,869,833 76.6 PurchasePlan Exercisable as of end of period 34.55 11,035,437 66.0 Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85 percent of the fair market value of a Excluded from the table above are replacement stock options share on the enrollment date the first day of the offering period or issued to Baxter employees as part of the acquisition of Baxalta.
the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is The Company issued 8.8 million stock options to Baxter employees the lower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 12 months.
on June 3, 2016, out of which 7.7 million and 6.9 million were No performance conditions apply.
outstanding and exercisable, respectively, as of December 31, 2016.
The weighted average grant date fair value of SARs and stock options granted in the year ended December 31, 2016 was 8.25 2015: 10.36: 2014: 6.19.
SARs and stock options including Baxalta Replacement Options, outstanding as of December 31, 2016 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average Average exercise exercise remaining price of price of Exercise contractual awards Number awards prices term outstanding of awards exercisable Number of awards outstanding Years exercisable 3,433,225 14.59-28.00 3.0 25.37 3,422,480 25.38 10,704,846 28.01-40.00 7.3 35.56 6,161,513 34.91 7,731,762 40.01-70.48 5.7 49.77 1,451,444 54.67 21,869,833 11,035,437 Shire Annual Report 2016 173 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Share-based Compensation Plans continued The Company will settle future awards with either newly listed RSUs, PSUs and PSAs Ordinary Shares or with shares held in the EBT.
The number of RSUs and PSUs under LTIP and PSAs under PSP Part B shares that the EBT will purchase in 2017 is dependent on the PSUs and PSAs granted to Executive Directors and PSUs granted number of awards granted and exercised during the year and to certain senior employees are exercisable subject to certain Shireplcs share price.
As of December 31, 2016, the EBT held performance and service criteria.
0.5million Ordinary Shares and 0.2 million ADSs.
RSUs and PSAs granted to employees below Executive Director Valuation methodologies are not subject to performance criteria and are only subject to The Company estimates the fair value of its share-based awards service conditions.
Key input assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share-based awards include the The performance criteria for PSUs granted under the LTIP is based grant price of the award, the expected stock-based award term, on Product sales and Non GAAP EBITDA targets, typically with a volatility of the Companys share price, the risk-free rate and the Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin.
The performance criteria for Companys dividend yield.
The Company believes that the PSAs under the PSP Part B is based on growth in Non GAAP valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are Baxalta Replacement RSUs not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately The replacement RSUs were issued consistent with the vesting realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent conditions of the replaced award as explained above and events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original generally continue to vest in one-third increments over a three-year estimates of fair value made by the Company.
The fair value on the acquisition date attributable to post-combination service, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, is The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining following assumptions: vesting period.
Years ended December 31 2016 2015 2014 A summary of the status of the Companys RSUs, PSUs and PSAs as of December 31, 2016 and of the related activity during the Risk-free interest rate 0.29-1.6% 0.6-1.8% 0.3-1.8% period then ended is presented below: Expected dividend yield 0.3-0.5% 0.2-0.4% 0.2-0.4% Expected life 1-4 years 1-4 years 1-4 years Weighted Weighted Volatility 26-29% 23-26% 23-27% average average Forfeiture rate 5-7% 5-7% 5-7% Number grant date remaining RSUs, PSUs and PSAs of shares fair value life The following assumptions were used to value share-based awards: Outstanding as of beginning ofperiod 1,791,930 40.06 risk-free interest rate for awards granted over ADSs, the U. S. Granted 1,663,070 42.28 Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a term Exercised 2,470,179 37.52 consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
For awards granted over Ordinary Shares, the yield on UK Baxalta Replacement RSUs 3,294,150 39.28 government bonds with a term consistent with the expected life Forfeited 302,314 48.47 of the award is used: Outstanding as of end of period 3,976,657 41.31 3.8 expected dividend yield measured as the average annualized Exercisable as of end of period n a dividend estimated to be paid by the Company over the expected life of the award as a percentage of the share price at Excluded from the table above are replacement RSUs issued the grant date: toBaxter employees as part of the acquisition of Baxalta.
expected life estimated based on the contractual term of the TheCompany issued 0.5 million RSUs to Baxter employees on awards and the effects of employees expected exercise and June3,2016, out of which 0.3 million were outstanding as of post-vesting employment termination behavior: December 31, 2016. expected volatility measured using historical daily price Exercises of share-based awards changes of the Companys share price over the respective The total intrinsic values of share-based awards exercised, expected life of the share-based awards at the date of the including those held by Baxter employees, for the years ended award: and December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $214.6 million, $198.8 forfeiture rate estimated using historical trends of the number million and $200.8 million, respectively.
The total cash received as of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
a result of share option exercises for the period ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $129.0 million, $16.6 million and $17.4 million, respectively.
In connection with these exercises, the tax benefit credited to additional paid-in capital for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $8.8 million, $31.6 million and $39.6 million, respectively.
Agreements and Transactions with Baxter that were incurred as a result of restructuring activities undertaken In connection with Baxaltas separation from Baxter on July 1, to effectuate the distribution and provides for Baxalta to indemnify 2015, Baxalta and Baxter entered into several separation-related Baxter against any tax liabilities resulting from Baxaltas action or agreements that provided a framework for Baxaltas relationship inaction that causes the merger-related transactions to be taxable.
with Baxter after the separation.
As a result of the acquisition of The net tax-related indemnification amount reported by the Baxalta, the Company became party to the separation-related Company as of December 31, 2016 was $26 million.
These agreements, among others, As of December 31, 2016, the Company had total amounts due included a manufacturing and supply agreement, a transition from or to Baxter of $189 million reported in prepaid expenses services agreement, an international commercial operations andother current assets, $34 million reported in Other non-current agreement and tax matters agreement.
assets, $72 million reported in Other current liabilities and Under the terms of the manufacturing and supply agreement, the $92million reported in Other non-current liabilities.
These Company manufactures certain products and materials and sells balancesinclude the net tax-related indemnification liabilities them to Baxter at an agreed-upon price reflecting the Companys andassets andliabilities of certain operations that have not cost plus a mark-up for certain products and materials.
Company reported revenues associated with the manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxter of approximately $81 million 30.
Auditor remuneration from the June 3, 2016 acquisition date through December 31, 2016.
The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, including tax advisory Under the terms of the transition services agreement, the and compliance services, provided by the Companys Independent Company and Baxter provide various services to each other on an Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, and the cost interim, transitional basis.
The services provided by Baxter to the effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Company include certain finance, information technology, human Registered Public Accountants.
In recognition of the importance resources, quality, supply chain and other administrative services ofmaintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, a process for and functions, and are generally provided on a cost-plus basis.
pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 and has The services generally extend for approximately two years continued through to the end of the period covered by this following the July 1, 2015 separation except for certain information AnnualReport.
technology services that may extend for three years following the July 1, 2015 separation.
The Company reported SG&A expenses The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the associated with the transition services agreement with Baxter of Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte approximately $54 million from the June 3, 2016 acquisition date LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the Audit, Compliance through December 31, 2016.
For a certain portion of Baxaltas non-U.
S. operations, the legal 2016 2015 transfer of net assets from Baxter had not occurred by the June 3, Years ended December 31 $M $M 2016 acquisition date due to the time required to transfer marketing Audit fees 14.7 4.7 authorizations and other regulatory requirements in each of these 1 Audit related fees 1.0 0.4 countries.
Under the terms of the international commercial 2 Tax fees 0.3 0.1 operations agreement with Baxter, the Company is responsible for 3 All other fees 18.9 3.9 the business activities conducted by Baxter on its behalf, and is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by these Total fees 34.9 9.1 operations and assets.
As a result, the related assets and liabilities 1 Audit related fees consisted of audit work only the Independent and results of operations are reported in the Companys RegisteredPublic Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, Consolidated Financial Statements following the acquisition of suchas statutory audits or procedures relating to regulatory filings.
The Company reported net sales related to these 2 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to operations of $101 million from the June 3, 2016 acquisition date compliance and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
3 All other fees include $14.5 million of fees related to the continuation through December 31, 2016.
As of December 31, 2016, the assets ofprojects already under way at Baxalta prior to its acquisition by the and liabilities of these operations consisted of inventories of $11 Company.
A comprehensive review and reorganization of these services million, which are reported in Inventories on the Consolidated was performed following the acquisition date to ensure thecontinued Balance Sheet, other assets of $50 million, which are reported as independence of Deloitte LLP as auditors for the Company.
All other fees also include $4.4 million of services provided to support the transaction Prepaid expenses and other current assets, and liabilities of $3 andfacilitate regulatory reporting related to the acquisition of Baxalta as million, which are reported in Other current liabilities.
The majority thistransaction qualified as a Class One Transaction.
In the year to of these operations have been transferred to the Company as of December 31, 2015 All other fees includes reporting accountant fees of December 31, 2016 and the remaining are expected to transfer in $3.9million, in connection with Shires proposed combination with Baxalta.
The tax matters agreement governs Baxter and Baxaltas and now the Companys respective rights, responsibilities and obligations after the distribution with respect to taxes for any tax period ending on or before the distribution date, as well as tax periods beginning before and ending after the distribution date.
In addition, the tax matters agreement addresses the allocation of liability for taxes Shire Annual Report 2016 175 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
List of subsidiaries Share class and proportion of authorized nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire Albania Sh.
p. k. Albania Ordinary ALL100.00 Rr: Sami Frasheri, Kompleksi T. I.
B, Floor 1, 10000 Tirana, Albania Baxalta Argentina S. A. U. Argentina ARS 1.00 Ordinary Entre Rios 1632.
Shire Human Genetic Therapies S. A. Argentina ARS 1.00 Ordinary Calle Olga Cossettini 263 3 piso UF 21, Dique IV Puerto Madero C1107CCF, Buenos Aires, Argentina Baxalta Australia Pty.
Ltd. Australia NPV Shares 1 Baxter Drive, Old Toongabbie NSW 2146, Australia Farboud Pty Ltd Australia AUD 1.00 Ordinary Avaya House, 6th Floor, 123 Epping Road, North Ryde, Sydney, NSW 2113, Australia Fibrotech Therapeutics Pty Ltd Australia AUD Ordinary Avaya House, 6th Floor, 123 Epping Road, North Ryde, Sydney, NSW 2113, Australia Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia AUD Ordinary Avaya House, 6th Floor, 123 Epping Road, North Ryde, Sydney, no par value NSW 2113, Australia Viropharma Pty Ltd Australia AUD Ordinary Suites 3 and 4, 25 Terminus Street, Castle Hill, NSW 2154, no par value Australia Baxalta Innovations GmbH Austria 36,336,417.08 Industriestrasse 67, 1221 Vienna, Austria Baxalta Osterreich GmbH Austria 35,000 Industriestrasse 67, 1221 Vienna, Austria Baxter AG Austria 1 Industriestrasse 67, 1221 Vienna, Austria Shire Austria GmbH Austria 35,000.00 Equity Interest Krntner Ring 5-7, 1010, Vienna, Austria Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados US$1.00 Common Chancery House, High Street, Bridgetown, Barbados Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados US$1.00 Common Chancery House, High Street, Bridgetown, Barbados Baxalta Belgium Manufacturing S. A. Belgium 2.43622 7860 Lessines, Boulevard Ren Branquart 80, Belgium Baxalta Belgium SPRL Belgium 0.77173 7860 Lessines, Boulevard Ren Branquart 80, Belgium Baxalta Services Europe SPRL Belgium 18.55 7860 Lessines, Boulevard Ren Branquart 80, Belgium Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium 1.00 Ordinary Rue Montoyer 47, 1000 Brussels, Belgium Shire Services BVBA Belgium 1.00 Ordinary Rue Montoyer 47, 1000 Brussels, Belgium Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda 1.00 Ordinary H. P. House, 21 Laffan Street, Hamilton HM 09, Bermuda Viropharma Holdings Limited Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, 12, Bermuda Baxalta Brasil Biocincia Ltda.
Brazil BRL$ 1.01 Ordinary Rua Henri Dunant, 1383, Tower B, 12th floor, suite 1202, SantoAmaro, Zip Code 04709-110, So Paulo, Brazil Shire Farmacutica Brasil Ltda Brazil BRL1.00 Ordinary Headquarters Rochaver Corporate Towers, Avenida das Naes Unidas, 14.171 Torre A, 5 andar conj.
501, 502, 503 e 504, CEP, 04794-000 So Paulo SP, Brazil Baxalta Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria BGN 375,001 Common 45 Bulgaria Blvd.
Triaditza District, Stolichna Municipality, SofiaRegion, 1404 Sofia, Bulgaria Shire Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria Ordinary BGL 1.00 51B Bulgaria blvd.
floor 4, 1404 Sofia, Triaditza district, Stolichna Municipality, Sofia City Region, Bulgaria Baxalta Canada Corporation Canada CAD Common 7125 Mississauga Road, Ontario L5N 0C2, Canada nil par value NPS Holdings Company Canada CAD Common 1959 Upper Water Street, Suite 800 Po Box 997, Halifax, NS nil par value B3J 2X2, Canada NPS Pharma Canada Inc. Canada CAD Common 1959 Upper Water St. Suite 800, P. O.
Box 997, Halifax, NS B3J nil par value 2X2, Canada Shire IP Services Corporation Canada CAD Common 1959 Upper Water Street, Suite 900, P. O.
Box 997, Halifax, NS no par value B3J 2X2, Canada Shire Pharma Canada ULC Canada CAD Class A Common 1000 Cathedral Place, 925 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, BC no par value BC V6C 3L2, Canada Shire 2005 Investments Limited Cayman Islands 1.00 Ordinary Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309G T, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1 1104, Cayman Islands Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands US$1.00 Founder Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309G T, UglandHouse, South Church Street, George Town, GrandCayman, KY1 1104, Cayman Islands Baxalta Chile SpA Chile Common no par value Avenida Mexico 715, Santiago, Chile Shire Chile SpA Chile Chilean Peso Ordinary Miraflores 222, piso 28, comuna fide Santiago, Chile No Par Value Baxalta BioScience Shanghai China Equity Interest Room 1706, 17 F, Building 1, No.
18 Taigu Road, China Co. Ltd. Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone 176 Shire Annual Report 2016 Share class and proportion of authorized nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Baxalta Hong Kong Limited China Ordinary Shares 1401 Hutchison House, 10 Harcourt Road, Hong Kong no par value Shire Shanghai Pharmaceuticals China 140,000.00 Equity Interest Room 5120, 51st Floor, Raffles Centre, 268 XiZang Road, Consultancy Co. Ltd. HuangPu District, Shanghai, China Baxalta Colombia S. A. S. Colombia COP $1.000 Common Avenida Calle 82 No.
Bogot, Colombia Shire Colombia S. A. S. Colombia COP1,000.00 Common Carrera 11A n 94 45 Oficina 702, Bogota, Colombia Baxalta BioScience Costa Rica S. R. L. Costa Rica CRC100.00 Ordinary 3er piso, Centro Corporativo Internacional Paseo Colon SanJose, Costa Rica Shire drutvo s ograni enom Croatia HRK20,000.00 Ordinary Ljudevita Gaja 35, 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia odgovorno u za trgovinu i usluge SG Biotech Limited Cyprus Class A shares Dimikritou, 15 Panaretos Eliana Complex Flat Office 104, EUR 1.00 51.00% Potamos.
Gemasogeias, 4041, Limassol, Cyprus Class B shares EUR 1.00 49.00% Baxalta Czech spol.
S. R. O. Czech Republic CZK K 1,000 capital Karla Englise 3201 6, Smichov, 15000 Prague 5, Czech Republic Shire Czech S. R. O. Czech Republic CZK1,000.00 Ordinary U Centre, Dejvice, Evropska 136 810, Prague 6, 160 12, CzechRepublic Baxalta Denmark A S Denmark DKK kr1,000 Common Tobaksvejen 2A, Sborg, Gladsaxe, 2860, Denmark Shire Denmark ApS Denmark DKK1,000.00 Ordinary Havneholmen 29, 1561, Copenhagen V, Denmark Baxalta-Ecuador S. A. Ecuador U. S. D $1.00 Common Av.
Amazonas N26-117, Quito Ecuador Baxalta Estonia OU Estonia 2, 501 Common Mediq Eesti O, Kungla 2, 76505 Saue, TALLINN, Estonia Baxalta Finland Oy Finland Ordinary no par value Tammasaarenkatu 7, 00180 PL 119 Helsinki, Finland Shire Finland Oy Finland 1.00 Ordinary c o BDO Oy, Vattuniemenranta 2, Helsinki, 00210, Finland Baxalta France S. A. S. France 1 Common Immeuble Pacific, 11-13 cours Valmy, 92800 Puteaux, France Shire France S. A. S. France 15.00 Ordinary 112 avenue Klber, 75116 Paris, France Baxalta Deutschland GmbH Germany 1,00 Edisonstrasse 2, 85716 Unterschleiheim, Germany Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Ordinary Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany Shire Central & Eastern Europe GmbH Germany Ordinary Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany 25,565.60 Common Stock Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Ordinary no par value Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany Shire Orphan Therapies GmbH Germany 1.00 Ordinary Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany SuppreMol GmbH Germany 1.00 Ordinary Am Klopferspitz 19a, 82152 Martinsried, Germany Baxalta BioScience Greece 10.00 Common 47 M. Antypa Str.
Irakleion, Greece Greece Single Member LLC Shire Hellas Pharmaceuticals Import Greece 100.00 Ordinary 38 Vasilleos Konstantinou Avenue and Aminta Street 1 F, Export and Marketing S. A. Athens, 116.35, Greece Baxalta Guatemala, SociedadAnnima Guatemala Quetzales Q100 Common 16 Calle 0-55, Zona 10 Edificio Torre Internacional Nivel 9 Guatemala, Guatemala Baxalta Hungary Limited Hungary Equity Interest 1138 Budapest, Npfrd utca 22 LiabilityCompany Shire Hungary Kft Hungary Equity Interest K r utca 2 A. C. p. Budapest, 1103, Hungary Baxalta BioScience India India INR 10 Equity shares Plot No.
5, IMT Manesar, Gurgaon 122050, PrivateLimited Haryana, India Baxalta Ireland Financing Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary Unit 7 Deansgrange Business Park, Deansgrange, Blackrock, Co. Dublin, Ireland Navillus Insurance Company DAC Ireland U. S. D$10.00 Ordinary Third Floor, The Metropolitan Building, James Joyce Street, Dublin 1, Ireland NPS Pharma Holdings Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland NPS Pharma International Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary 70 Sir John Rogersons Quay, Dublin 2, Ireland Pharma International Insurance Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 3rd Floor, The Metropolitan Building, James Joyce Street, Designated Activity Company DAC Dublin1, Republic of Ireland Shire Acquisitions Investments Ireland Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Designated Activity Company DAC Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland IrelandLimited Shire Holdings Ireland U. C. Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Shire Annual Report 2016 177 Other Information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
List of subsidiaries continued Share class and proportion of authorized nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland No.
3 Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Shire Intellectual Property Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland IrelandLimited Shire Ireland Finance Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Shire Ireland Finance Trading Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Shire Ireland Investment Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Shire Ireland Premacure Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland InvestmentU.
C. Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland IrelandLimited Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Trading Ireland U. C. Shire Pharmaceutical Investments Ireland US$0.0002 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland 2008 U. C. Shire Pharmaceutical Services Ireland 1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland IrelandLimited Shire Pharmaceuticals Finance Ireland Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Unlimited Company Shire Pharmaceuticals International Ireland US$1.00 A Ordinary 20% 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland U. C. US$1.00 B Ordinary 20% US$1.00 C Ordinary 20% US$1.00 D Ordinary 20% US$1.00 Preferred 20% Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland 2007 U. C. Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Israel Ltd Israel Ordinary ILS NPV 58 Harakevet, Tel Aviv, Israel Baxalta Italy Holding S. r. l. Italy 26,477,967.00 Rome RM, 00144 Piazzale dellIndustria No.
20, Italia Baxalta Italy S. r. l. Italy 1,668,778.00 Rome RM, 00144 Piazzale dellIndustria No.
20, Italia Baxter Manufacturing S. p. A. Italy 25.00 Common Rome RM, 00144 Piazzale dellIndustria No.
20, Italia 25.00 Treasury Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy 0.51 Ordinary 4th Floor, via Mike Bongiorno n. 13, 20124 Milano, Italy Baxalta Japan Limited Japan No par value Common 1-23-1 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-6320, Japan Shire Japan K. K. Japan JPY Ordinary Tekko Building 21st Floor, 1-8-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo100-0005 Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Jersey CHF1,000.00 Ordinary 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Ireland Limited Shire Jersey Limited Jersey 1.00 Ordinary 23 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Baxalta Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan Members Medeuskij District, 105 Dostyk Ave. 3rd floor, Office 300, Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan 050051 Baxalta Korea Ltd. Korea, Republic of KRW5,000.00 Common 20th FL, 47, Jong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea Gongpyeong-dong, Standard Chartered Bank Building Shire Pharma Korea Yuhan Hoesa Korea, Republic of KRW10,000.00 Ordinary Yeoksam-dong, 16th Floor, 134 Tehaeran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Baxalta Lithuania U.
B. Lithuania 100 Ordinary Jogailos g. 9, Vilnius, LT-01116 Lithuania Shire Holdings Europe No.
2 S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Holdings Luxembourg S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Finance S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Mandatory 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Redeemable Preference Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg 0.01% US$1.00 Ordinary 99.99% 178 Shire Annual Report 2016 Share class and proportion of authorized nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, PropertyNo.
2 S.. r. l. Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, PropertyNo.
3 S.. r. l. Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, PropertyS.. r. l. Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Pharmaceuticals International Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Finance S.. r. l. Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Sweden Holdings S.. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Baxalta Malaysia SDN.
Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary Level 21, Suite 21.01, The Gardens South Tower, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, 59200 Kuala Lumpur.
Baxalta Mexico S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Equity Interest Avenida Presidente Masarik 111 Piso 4, Del.
Miguel Hidalgo Mexico, D. F. 11570, Mexico Baxalta S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Equity Interest Avenida Presidente Masarik 111 Piso 4, Del.
Miguel Hidalgo Mexico, D. F. 11570, Mexico Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA Mexico MXN1.00 Ordinary 0.23% Paseo fide Tamarindo # 90, Torre 1 Piso 7, Colonia Bosques deCV deLas Lomas, Delegacion Cuajimalpa CP05120, Mexico DF MXN1.00 Variable Capital 99.77% Baxalta Holding B. V. Netherlands 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Baxalta Investments B. V. Netherlands 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Baxalta Netherlands B. V. Netherlands 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Baxalta Netherlands Holding B. V. Netherlands 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Baxalta Netherlands Investment B. V. Netherlands 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland Shire International Licensing B. V. Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary Toren 6, Level C, World Trade Centre, Strawinskylaan 659, 1077XX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Shire Licensing V. O. F. Netherlands Members not shares Strawinskylaan 659, 1077 XX Amsterdam, Netherlands Tanaud International B. V. Netherlands 450.00 Ordinary Prins Bernardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam, Netherlands Baxalta New Zealand Limited New Zealand Ordinary no par value 33 Vestey Drive, Mount Wellington, Auckland, 1060, NewZealand Shire New Zealand Limited New Zealand NZD1.00 Ordinary Crowe Horwath, Level 29, 188 Quay Street, Auckland Central, Auckland, 1010, NZ, New Zealand Baxalta Norway AS Norway NOK kr150 Ordinary Gjerdrumsvei 11, 0484 Oslo, Norway Shire Norway AS Norway NOK1,000.00 Ordinary c o BDO Accounting AS, PO Box 1704, Vika, Oslo, N-0121, Norway Baxalta Panama S. A. Panama U. S. D $1.00 Common P. H. Torres fide Las Amricas, Torre C, Nivel 27, Oficina 2703 C-2704C, Panama Baxalta Poland sp.
Z o. o Poland PLN z50 Common Pl.
Pisudskiego 1, 00-078 Warsaw, Poland Shire Polska Sp.
Postpu 12, 02-676 Warsaw, Poland Baxalta Portugal, Unipessoal, Ltda.
Portugal 300.001 Ordinary Sintra Business Park, Zona Industrial da Abrunheira, Edificio 10, 2710-089 Sintra, Portugal Avenida da Repblica, 50, 10, Nossa Senhora fide Ftima, Shire Pharmaceuticals Portugal, Lda Portugal Ordinary 1069211, Lisboa, Portugal Shire ViroPharma Incorporated Puerto Rico US$0.01 Ordinary Oriental Street, 254 Munoz Rivera Avenue P-1 Floor, Hato Reym, San Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico Baxalta S. R. L. Romania Ordinary RON10.01 90 Calea 13 Septembrie, 7th floor, room no.
7.14, 5th District, Bucharest, Romania Shire Romania SRL Romania Ordinary RON10.00 Bucure ti Sectorul 1, Calea Floreasca nr.
2090, Romania SG Biotech Joint Stock Russian Federation Ordinary RUR1.00 Office 26, 18 Vladimirskaya Street, Volginsky Village, Petushinsky Company District, Vladimirsky Region, 601125, Russian Federation Shire Rus Limited Liability Company Russian Federation Partnership Interest Office 1017 1020, Floor 10, 3 Smolenskaya Square, 121099, Moscow, Russian Federation Shire Annual Report 2016 179 Other Information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
List of subsidiaries continued Share class and proportion of authorized nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire doo Beograd Serbia RSD1,111.99 Equity Interest Usko ka 8 IV, 11 000 Belgrade, Serbia Baxalta Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Ordinary no par value 8 Marina Boulevard, #15-01, Marina Bay Finance Centre, Tower1 Singapore 018981 Shire Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore SGD1.00 Ordinary 21 Merchant Road, #04-01 Royal Merukh S. E. A.
Building, Singapore, 058267, Singapore Baxalta Slovakia s. r. o. Slovakia Participation Interest Palisdy 36, 811 06 Bratislava, Slovak Republic.
Shire Slovakia s. r. o. Slovakia 5,000 Equity Interest Zochova 6-8, mestsk as Star Mesto 811 03, Bratislava, Slovakia Baxalta Biofarmacevtska druzba d. o. o Slovenia Capital contribution Zelezna cesta 18, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Shire Pharmaceuticals South Africa South Africa Ordinary ZAR NPV Mazars House, 54 Glenhove Road, Melrose Estate, Pty Ltd Johannesburg, 2196 South Africa Baxalta Spain S. L. Spain 0.01 Ordinary Parque Empresarial San Fernando fide Henares, Edificio Londres, San Fernando fide Henares, 28830 Madrid Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. Spain 10.00 Ordinary 4th Floor, Edificio Partenon, Avenida del Partenon 16-18, 28042, Madrid, Spain Baxalta Sweden AB Sweden SEK kr1.00 c o Baxter Sweden AB Box 63, 164 94 Kista Sweden DuoCort Pharma AB Sweden SEK100.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden Premacure AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden Premacure Uppsala AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden SEK10.00 Common Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden Shire Sweden AB Sweden SEK100.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden ViroPharma AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden Baxalta Export Services GmbH Switzerland CHF 100.00 Quota Thurgauerstrasse 130, 8152 Glattpark Opfikon, Switzerland Baxalta GmbH Switzerland CHF 20.00 Ordinary Quota Thurgauerstrasse 130, 8152 Glattpark Opfikon, Switzerland Baxalta Manufacturing S.. r. l. Switzerland CHF 2,000,000.00 Quota Route fide Pierre--Bot 111, 2000 Neuchtel, Switzerland Baxalta Recombinant S.. r. l. Switzerland CHF 100.00 Quota Route fide Pierre--Bot 111, 2000 Neuchtel, Switzerland Baxalta Schweiz AG Switzerland CHF 100.00 Quota Thurgauerstrasse 130, 8152 Glattpark Opfikon, Switzerland SG Biotech S.. r. l. Switzerland CHF 100.00 Quota c o Shire Orphan and Rare Diseases GmbH, Zahlerweg 10, 6300 Zug, Switzerland Shire International Finance GmbH Switzerland CHF100.00 Quota Zahlerweg 10, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Shire International GmbH Switzerland CHF1,000.00 Ordinary Zahlerweg 10, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Shire Orphan and Rare Switzerland CHF100.00 Quotas Zahlerweg 10, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland DiseasesGmbH Shire Switzerland GmbH Switzerland CHF100.00 Ordinary Zahlerweg 10, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Baxalta Biopharmaceutical Ltd. Taiwan NT $1000.00 Common 15F.
Taipei 106, Taiwan R. O. C. Taiwan Shire Limited Company Taiwan TWD5,000,000.00 Equity 18F, No.
Taipei City, Taiwan 110, Taiwan Interest Baxalta Thailand Limited Thailand THB 100 Ordinary 1550 Thanapoom Tower, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, Makkasan Sub-district, Ratchatewi District, Bangkok 10400 Baxalta Tunisia S.. r. l. Tunisia DT 100.00 Common 21, Avenue Jugurtha Mutuelleville, 1002 Tunis Belvdre, Tunis Eczacibasi Baxalta Hastane Urunleri Turkey Group A shares TL 1.00 Ayaza a Mah.
No: 23 Saryer, Istanbul, Sanayi five Ticaret A. S. 50.00% Turkey Group B shares TL 1.00 50.00% Shire Ilac Ticaret Limited Sirketi Turkey TRL25.00 Ordinary 18th Floor, APA GIZ Plaza, Bykdere Caddesi, No 191, 34330 Levent, Istanbul, Turkey Baxalta Ukraine LLC Ukraine UAH Equity Interest 29 Berezniakivska St. Kyiv 02098, Ukraine Shire Ukraine LLC Ukraine UAH Equity Interest TC Gulliver, Sportyvna Square, 1a, Kiev, 01023, Ukraine Auralis Limited United Kingdom 0.01 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Baxalta UK Holdco Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 20 Kingston Road, Staines, UK, TW18 4LG Baxalta UK Investments Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 20 Kingston Road, Staines, UK, TW18 4LG Baxalta UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 20 Kingston Road, Staines, UK, TW18 4LG Dyax Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP 180 Shire Annual Report 2016 Share class and proportion of authorized nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Lumena Pharma UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Monmouth Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP NPS Pharma UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Rybar Laboratories Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom 0.05 Income Access Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, 0.01% Hampshire, RG24 8EP 0.05 Ordinary 99.99% 0.05 Preferred Share 0.01% 0.05 Voting Share 0.01% Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Global Finance United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Human Genetic United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, TherapiesLimited Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Human Genetic Therapies United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, U. K. Limited Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Investments & Finance United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, U. K. Company Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Pharmaceutical United Kingdom 0.01 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, ContractsLimited Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Pharmaceutical United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, DevelopmentLimited Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom 0.0001 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire Pharmaceuticals ServicesLimited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire UK Investments Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Shire U. S. Investments United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Sigma-Tau Pharma Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 20 Kingston Road, Staines, UK, TW18 4LG Sparkleflame Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP The Endocrine Centre Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP Viropharma Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 0.001% Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG24 8EP 1.00 Redeemable Preference 99.999% AesRX, LLC United States US$ no par value 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801 Shire Annual Report 2016 181 Other Information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
List of subsidiaries continued Share class and proportion of authorized nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Amsterdam Newco, Inc United States Common Stock US$0.01 The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street Corporation Trust Center New Castle County Wilmington, Delaware 19801 Armagen Technologies, inc United States Series A preferred stock 26679 Agoura Rd #100, Calabasas, CA 91302, U. S. A. Baxalta Export Corporation United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801 Baxalta Holdings LLC United States US$ no par value 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015 U. S. A. Baxalta Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center Wilmington fide 19801 U. S. A. Baxalta Mexico Holding LLC United States US$ no par value 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. Baxalta Singapore Holding LLC United States US$ no par value 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. Baxalta U. S. Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015 U. S. A. Baxalta World Trade LLC United States US$ no par value 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. Baxalta Worldwide LLC United States US$ no par value 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. BearTracks, Inc. United States US$0.001 Ordinary 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. Bikam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street Corporation Trust Center New Castle County Wilmington, Delaware 19801 BioLife Plasma LLC United States US$ no par value 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. BioLife Plasma Services LP United States Partnership Interest 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015 U. S. A. Cinacalcet Royalty Sub LLC United States US$10.00 Equity Interest 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. Dyax Corp. United States Common Stock US$0.01 Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, CorporationTrust Center, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street Corporation Trust Center New Castle County Wilmington, Delaware 19801 Foresight Biotherapeutics, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street Corporation Trust Center New Castle County Wilmington, Delaware 19801 JPT Peptide Technologies Inc United States US$1.00 Common Stock C T Corporation System 4701 Cox Road Suite 285 Henrico County Glen Allen, Virginia 23060-6802 Knight Newco 1, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. Laboratorios Baxalta S. A.
United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801 Lotus Tissue Repair Inc United States US$0.001 Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, 29.641% Suite400, Wilmington fide 19808, U. S. A. US$0.001 Preferred 70.359% Lumena Pharmaceuticals LLC United States US$ Ordinary 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. no par value Meritage Pharma, Inc. United States US$0.001 Common Stock 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421 U. S. A. NPS Pharma Holdings U. S. Inc. United States US$0.0001 Common 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. NPS Services, L. C. United States Partnership Interest The Corporation Trust Company of Nevada, 701 S. CarsonStreet, Suite 200, Carson City NV 89701, U. S. A.
Rare Disease Charitable Foundation United States Charitable Foundation C T Corporation System 116 Pine Street Suite 320 Dauphin County Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17101 SARcode Bioscience Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. Shire Brandywine LLC United States US$1.00 Ordinary The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. Shire Development LLC United States US$ Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, nil par value Suite400, Wilmington fide 19808, U. S. A. Shire Executive Services LLC United States US$ no par value Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite400, Wilmington fide 19808, U. S. A. Shire Holdings U. S. AG United States US$0.01 Common stock The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. Shire Human Genetic Therapies United States US$0.01 Ordinary The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, Securities Corporation 1209Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A.
182 Shire Annual Report 2016 Share class and proportion of authorized nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street Corporation Trust Center New Castle County Wilmington, Delaware 19801 Shire Incorporated United States US$ Common The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, no par value 1209Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. Shire Invicta U. S. Inc United States US$0.01 common stock The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street Corporation Trust Center New Castle County Wilmington, Delaware 19801 Shire LLC United States US$ no par value C T Corporation System 306 West Main Street Suite 512 Franklin County Frankfort, Kentucky 40601 Shire North American Group Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite400, Wilmington fide 19808, U. S. A. Shire Orphan Therapies LLC United States US$0.001 Common Stock 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. Shire Pharmaceutical Development United States US$0.01 Common Stock CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service Company, U. S. Inc 11 E Chase Street, Baltimore MD 21202, U. S. A. Shire Pharmaceuticals LLC United States US$ Common The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street no par value Corporation Trust Center New Castle County Wilmington, Delaware 19801 Shire Properties U. S. United States Partnership Interest Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite400, Wilmington fide 19808, U. S. A. Shire Regenerative Medicine LLC United States US$0.01 Common The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street Corporation Trust Center New Castle County Wilmington, Delaware 19801 Shire Regulatory Inc United States US$ Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, no par value Suite400, Wilmington fide 19808, U. S. A. Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Partnership Interest Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite400, Wilmington fide 19808, U. S. A. Shire U. S. Holdings LLC United States US$0.01 Ordinary The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Centre, 1209Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County fide 19801, U. S. A. Shire U. S. Inc United States US$ Common The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street no par value Corporation Trust Center New Castle County Wilmington, Delaware 19801 Shire U. S. Investment Inc United States US$1.00 Common 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. Shire U. S. Manufacturing Inc United States US$1.00 Common CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service Company, 11 E Chase Street, Baltimore MD 21202, U. S. A. Shire ViroPharma Incorporated United States US$0.01 Common 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, U. S. A. Shire-NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock The Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange Street, The City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, U. S. A. VCO Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. Viropharma Biologics Inc United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. Viropharma Holdings LLC United States Sole member 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. VPDE Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1105 N. Market Street, Suite 1300, Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. VPINT Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1105 N. Market Street, Suite 1300, Wilmington, fide 19801, U. S. A. Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments Virgin Islands, British US$1.00 Ordinary Romasco Place, Wickhams Cay 1, P. O.
Box 3140, British Virgin Islands Limited 97.708% Road Town, Tortola, VG1110, Virgin Islands, British US$1.00 Preference 2.292% With the exception of those entities indicated, all subsidiary undertakings of Shire plc are 100% indirectly beneficially owned.
All subsidiary undertakings are consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of Shire plc.
these entities are 100% directly beneficially owned this entity is 96% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 22.13% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 50.00% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 51.00% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 26.01% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 13.26% indirectly beneficially owned Shire Annual Report 2016 183 Other Information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
List of subsidiaries continued Company Name Location of Branch Representative Office Baxalta Export Services GmbH Algeria Shire Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co. Ltd. China Baxalta Export Services GmbH Egypt Baxalta UK Limited Ireland Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Ireland Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
2 S.. r. l. Ireland Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
3 S.. r. l. Ireland Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property S.. r. l. Ireland Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland Shire plc Ireland Baxalta GmbH Norway Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Norway Baxalta World Trade LLC Puerto Rico Shire drutvo s ograni enom odgovorno u za trgovinu i usluge Romania Shire Pharmaceuticals Contracts Limited Russia Baxalta Export Services GmbH Saudi Arabia Baxalta Manufacturing S.. r. l. Singapore Shire Sweden Holdings S.. r. l. Sweden Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Switzerland Baxalta Export Services GmbH United Arab Emirates Shire Services BVBA United Kingdom Shire Holdings Ireland UC United Kingdom Shire Holdings Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 UC United Kingdom Baxalta Singapore Pte Ltd Vietnam 184 Shire Annual Report 2016
