Other information Cautionary statements Statements included herein that are not historical facts, including Shires growth strategy depends in part upon its ability to without limitation statements concerning future strategy, plans, expand its product portfolio through external collaborations, objectives, expectations and intentions, the anticipated timing which, if unsuccessful, may adversely affect the development ofclinical trials and approvals for, and the commercial potential and sale ofitsproducts: of, In-line or pipeline products, are forward-looking statements.
a slowdown of global economic growth, or economic instability Suchforward-looking statements involve a number of risks and ofcountries in which Shire does business, as well as changes in uncertainties and are subject to change at any time.
In the event foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, that such risks or uncertainties materialize, Shires results could be adversely impact the availability and cost of credit and customer materially adversely affected.
The risks and uncertainties include, purchasing and payment patterns, including the collectability of but are not limited to, the following: customer accounts receivable: Shires products may not be a commercial success: failure of a marketed product to work effectively or if such a increased pricing pressures and limits on patient access as a product is the cause of adverse side effects could result in result of governmental regulations and market developments damage to the Shires reputation, the withdrawal of the product may affect Shires future revenues, financial condition and results and legal action against Shire: of operations: investigations or enforcement action by regulatory authorities or lawenforcement agencies relating to Shires activities in the Shire conducts its own manufacturing operations for certain of highly regulated markets in which it operates may result in its products and is reliant on third-party contract manufacturers significant legal costs and the payment of substantial to manufacture other products and to provide goods and compensation or fines: services.
Some of Shires products or ingredients are only available from a single approved source for manufacture.
Any Shire is dependent on information technology and its systems disruption to the supply chain for any of Shires products may and infrastructure face certain risks, including from service result in Shire being unable to continue marketing or developing disruptions, the loss of sensitive or confidential information, a product or may result in Shire being unable to do so on a cyber-attacks and other security breaches or data leakages that commercially viable basis for some period of time: could have a material adverse effect on Shires revenues, the manufacture of Shires products is subject to extensive financial condition or results ofoperations: oversight by various regulatory agencies.
Regulatory approvals Shire incurred substantial additional indebtedness to finance the orinterventions associated with changes to manufacturing sites, Baxalta acquisition, which may decrease its business flexibility ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to significant and increase borrowing costs: delays, an increase in operating costs, lost product sales, aninterruption of research activities or the delay of new difficulties in integrating Dyax or Baxalta into Shire may lead to productlaunches: the combined company not being able to realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, certain of Shires therapies involve lengthy and complex synergies, or other benefits at the time anticipated or at all: and processes, which may prevent Shire from timely responding to market forces and effectively managing its production capacity: a further list and description of risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found on pages 55 to 65 of this Annual Report.
Shire has a portfolio of products in various stages of research and development.
The successful development of these All forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this and time, and there is no guarantee that these products will cautionary statement.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue receive regulatory approval: reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof.
Except to the extent otherwise required by the actions of certain customers could affect Shires ability to applicable law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or sellormarket products profitably.
Fluctuations in buying or revise forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new distribution patterns by such customers can adversely affect information, future events or otherwise.
Shires revenues, financial conditions or results of operations: Shires products and product candidates face substantial competition in the product markets in which it operates, including competition from generics: adverse outcomes in legal matters, tax audits and other disputes, including Shires ability to enforce and defend patents and other intellectual property rights required for its business, could have amaterial adverse effect on the combined companys revenues, financial condition or results of operations: inability to successfully compete for highly qualified personnel fromother companies and organizations: failure to achieve the strategic objectives with respect to Shires acquisition of NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Dyax Corp. Dyax orBaxalta Inc. Baxalta may adversely affect Shires financial condition and results of operations: 190 Shire Annual Report 2016 Shire plc Report and financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2016 Company Information Contents Directors Directors report 192 Dominic Blakemore Olivier Bohuon Directors responsibilities in the preparation William Burns of the financial statements 194 Ian Clark Independent auditors report to the members Gail Fosler of Shire plc 195 Dr Steven Gillis Dr David Ginsburg Statement of comprehensive income 197 Susan Kilsby Sara Mathew Statement of financial position 198 Anne Minto OBE Statement of changes in equity 199 Dr Flemming Ornskov Jeffrey Poulton Accounting policies 200 Albert Stroucken Notes to the financial statements 203 Secretary Bill Mordan Registered office 22 Grenville Street St Helier Jersey JE4 8PX Channel Islands Corporate headquarters 5 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus Dublin 24 Republic of Ireland Auditor Deloitte LLP London United Kingdom Shire Annual Report 2016 191 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Shire plc report and financial statements Directors report For the year ended December 31, 2016 The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial Key performance indicators statements for the year ended December 31, 2016.
The Companys key performance indicators are the same as the Groups.
For details of the Groups key performance indicators see Principal activity and business review page 16 in the Shire Annual Report.
Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either Shire, or the Group is the leading global biotechnology Income Access Share arrangements company focused on serving people with rare diseases.
In 2008, Shire put in place and continues to operate Income Access Share IAS arrangements enabling shareholders to The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group and its principal choose whether they receive their dividends from the company, activity is that of a holding company.
which is tax resident in the Republic of Ireland, or from a company tax resident in the UK.
Further details of the IAS arrangements can The Group has grown both organically and through acquisition, be found in Note 27 of the Shire Annual Report.
completing a series of major transactions that have brought therapeutic, geographic and pipeline growth and diversification.
Results and dividends The Group will continue to conduct its own research and A loss on ordinary activities before taxation of $173.3 million was development R&D focused on rare diseases, as well as evaluate recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 year ended companies, products and pipeline opportunities that offer a December 31, 2015: loss before tax of $91.5 million.
The increase strategic fit and have the potential to deliver value to all of the in the loss is primarily due to an increase of $44 million in interest Groups stakeholders: patients, physicians, policy makers, payers, payable on loans made within the Group and $18 million of partners, investors and employees.
The principal legislation under which the Company operates is the The net assets of the Company increased from $12,075.8 million Companies Jersey Law 1991 and regulations made thereunder.
for the year ended December 31, 2015 to $31,666.1 million for the The Ordinary Shares of the Company are listed on the London year ended December 31, 2016, primarily as a result of a share Stock Exchange in the UK, and American Depositary Shares issue made in the year and credits to shareholders funds in ADS, representing three Ordinary Shares of the Company, respect of share based compensation awards held by employees evidenced by an American Depositary Receipt issued by Shires in other group companies partially offset by the loss recorded in Depositary, Citibank, N. A. are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select the year.
Dividends paid and dividend policy Business review The Company paid dividends amounting to $20.7 million in the The Business review of the Group can be found in the consolidated year 2015: $6.8 million.
In accordance with IAS arrangements, financial statements and Annual Report and Accounts of the Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings paid dividends totaling $150.6 Company for the year to December 31, 2016, prepared in million 2015: $127.6 million to those shareholders who choose to accordance with United Kingdom Listing Authority requirements receive their dividends from a company tax resident in the UK.
the Shire Annual Report : in the Chairmans review on pages 4 and 5: the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 6 to 9: and the A first interim dividend for the six months to June 30, 2016 of 4.63 Review of our Business on pages 43 to 53.
The Shire Annual cents 3.51 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to 13.89 cents Report also provides a description of the principal risks and per ADS, was paid in October 2016.
The Board has resolved to uncertainties facing the Company and the Group, as well as the pay a second interim dividend of 25.70 cents 20.64 pence per Groups risk management objectives and policies that are in place Ordinary Share equivalent to 77.10 cents per ADS for the six to assist in mitigating the potential impact.
This is consistent with Shires stated policy of paying a dividend During the year, the Company continued in its capacity as the semi-annually, set in U. S. cents per Ordinary Share.
Typically, the parent company for the Group in the management of its first interim payment each year will be higher than the previous subsidiaries.
years first interim U. S. D. dividend.
Dividend growth for the full year On January 22, 2016, Shire acquired Dyax Corp in an all-cash will be reviewed by the Board when the second interim dividend transaction valued at approximately $5.9 billion, comprised of isdetermined.
Dyax shareholders may receive additional value through a non-tradable contingent value right Liquidity, cash flow and going concern CVR that will pay $4.00 in cash per Dyax share upon approval of The Company and the Groups business activities, together with DX-2930 for HAE, representing a potential additional $645.9 million the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and in aggregate contingent consideration.
position are set out in the Chairmans review, Chief Executive Officers review and Financial review.
The financial position of the Additionally, on June 3, 2016, the Group completed its acquisition Company and the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and of Baxalta Inc, Baxalta for $32.4 billion, representing the borrowing facilities are described in the Liquidity and capital preliminary fair value of purchase consideration.
The Groups resources section of the Financial review of the Shire Annual Consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Baxalta Report and also see Note 15.
The Financial review also includes from the date of acquisition.
For further details regarding the information in respect of the Groups objectives, policies and acquisition, please refer to Note 4 of the consolidated financial processes for managing capital: its financial risk management statements, Business Combinations.
As part of this, Shire plc objectives: details of its hedging activity: and its exposures to credit acquired 611.34 Ordinary Shares in Baxalta in exchange for risk and liquidity risk.
305,213,250 Ordinary Shares in the company, for total consideration of $19.4 billion.
The Companys funding requirements depend on a number of factors, including the timing and extent of its development The Company is tax resident in the Republic of Ireland.
programs: corporate, business and product acquisitions: the level 192 Shire Annual Report 2016 of resources required for the expansion of certain manufacturing accounting policies in the notes to the financial statements.
and marketing capabilities as the product base expands: increases Directors in accounts receivable and inventory which may arise with any The Directors who served during the year and up to the date of increase in product sales: competitive and technological signing these financial statements are shown below: developments: the timing and cost of obtaining required regulatory Dominic Blakemore approvals for new products: the timing and quantum of milestone payments on business combinations, in-licenses and collaborative Olivier Bohuon projects: the timing and quantum of tax and dividend payments: William Burns the timing and quantum of purchases by the Employee Benefit Ian Clark appointed January 03, 2017 Trust EBT of Shire shares in the market to satisfy awards Gail Fosler appointed June 03, 2016 granted under Shires employee share plans: and the amount of Dr Steven Gillis cash generated from sales of Shires products and royalty receipts.
Dr David Ginsburg An important part of the Groups business strategy is to protect its David Kappler resigned April 28, 2016 products and technologies through the use of patents, proprietary Susan Kilsby technologies and trademarks, to the extent available.
The Sara Mathew Company intends to defend its intellectual property and as a result Anne Minto OBE may need cash for funding the cost of litigation.
Dr Flemming Ornskov The Company finances its activities through cash generated from Jeffrey Poulton operating activities: credit facilities: private and public offerings of Albert Stroucken appointed June 03, 2016 equity and debt securities: and the proceeds of asset or investment disposals.
The Groups balance sheet includes $528.8 Payment of creditors million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2016.
The Company is non-trading and accordingly has no trade creditors.
The Group has a revolving credit facility RCF of $2,100 million, which matures in 2021, $450 million of which was utilized as of Directors liability insurance and indemnification December 31, 2016.
The RCF incorporates a $250 million U. S. In the year under review, the Group maintained an insurance policy Dollar and Euro swingline facility operating as a sub-limit thereof.
for its Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, error or omission whilst acting in their capacity as On September 23, 2016, Shire Acquisitions Investments Ireland Directors or Officers.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions Designated Activity Company SAIIDAC, a wholly owned were also in place during the year under review for the benefit of subsidiary of the Company, issued senior notes guaranteed by Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may Shire plc, with a total aggregate principal amount of $12.1 billion.
potentially incur to third-parties in the course of their duties.
These On December 1, 2016, Baxalta guaranteed the outstanding notes remain in force at the date of this report.
Auditor In addition, in connection with the acquisition of Baxalta, on June Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this 3, 2016, Shire plc guaranteed senior notes issued by Baxalta report confirms that: totaling $5.0 billion and originally assumed $336.0 million of capital lease obligations.
The details of these senior notes are presented in so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Note 18, Borrowings and Capital Lease Obligations, of the Shire information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Annual Report.
the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any Further in connection with the acquisitions of Dyax and Baxalta, relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys respectively, the Group entered into a $5.6 billion term loan facility auditor is aware of that information.
in November 2015 and an $18.0 billion bridge loan in January 2016.
The November 2015 term loan facility was fully utilized as of Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office December 31, 2016 in the amount of $5.6 billion.
The bridge loan as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at was fully repaid and canceled subsequent to the issuance of $12.1 the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
billion senior notes on September 23, 2016.
The details of these Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: facility agreements are presented in Note 18, Borrowings and Capital Lease Obligations, of the Shire Annual Report.
In addition, the Group also has access to certain short-term uncommitted lines of credit which are available to utilize from time to time to provide short-term cash management flexibility.
As of December 31, 2016, these lines of credit were not utilized.
Bill Mordan The Company may also engage in financing activities from time to General Counsel and Company Secretary time, including accessing the debt or equity capital markets.
February 22, 2017 The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further details regarding the adoption of the going concern basis can be found in the Shire Annual Report 2016 193 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Shire plc report and financial statements Directors responsibilities in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Responsibility statement the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with United Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit prepare the financial statements in accordance with United or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United consolidation taken as a whole: Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and company law the directors must not approve the financial performance of the business and the position of the company statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss whole, together with a description of the principal risks and of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial uncertainties that they face: and statements, the directors are required to: the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information select suitable accounting policies and then apply them necessary for shareholders to assess the companys consistently: performance, business model and strategy.
make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law Chief Executive Officer 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the February 22, 2017 company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Jeffrey Poulton Chief Financial Officer February 22, 2017 194 Shire Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2016 Opinion on financial statements of Shire plc the Directors explanation on page 75 as to how they have In our opinion the financial statements: assessed the prospects of the company, over what period theyhave done so and why they consider that period to be give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its loss for the year areasonable expectation that the company will be able to then ended: continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due have been properly prepared in accordance with United overthe period of their assessment, including any related Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard orassumptions.
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw Companies Jersey Law 1991. attention to in respect of these matters.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material the statement of comprehensive income: uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or the statement of financial position: conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee the statement of changes in equity: as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
the statement of cash flows: and the related notes 1 to 18.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are preparation is applicable Jersey law and United Kingdom Generally independent of the Company and we have fulfilled our other ethical Accepted Accounting Practice Financial Reporting Standard responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risk that we identified in the current year was We confirm that we are independent of the entity and we the Companys investment in subsidiaries.
This was also havefulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance identified as a risk in the prior year.
We also confirm we have not provided Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in $50million, determined as 0.2 percent of net assets.
Scoping Audit work to respond to the risks of material Our assessment of risks of material misstatement misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below arethose that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the theengagement team.
Company Investment in Subsidiaries We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting Risk description There is a risk related to the size of the Companys investments of $38.4 billion 2015: $16.7 billion in contained within the notes to the financial statements and the Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited, Shire Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group Regenerative Medicine Inc, Dyax Corp and Baxalta Inc contained within the Corporate Governance statement, on which are disclosed in note 9. page70.
How the scope We have challenged the Directors impairment analysis We are required to state whether we have anything material to add of our audit and have considered the valuation of the Companys responded to subsidiaries against other indicators of value, such as or draw attention to in relation to: therisk theoverall market capitalisation of the Shire group.
the Directors confirmation on page 194 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the This matter was addressed in the context of our audit of the Company, including those that would threaten its business financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on this matter.
the disclosures on pages 54 to 65 that describe those risks and Our application of materiality explain how they are being managed or mitigated: We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the the Directors statement in the notes to the financial statements financial statements that makes it probable that the economic about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the identification of any material uncertainties to the companys scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and Shire Annual Report 2016 195 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc continued Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor for the financial statements as a whole as follows: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Company $50 million 2015: $30 million statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair materiality view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Basis for We have reconsidered materiality in the current year, financial statements in accordance with applicable law and determining and have determined materiality for the Company to be International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This represents 0.2 percent comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and 2015: 0.2 percent of the net assets of the Company.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our Rationale for We consider net assets the key benchmark quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
the benchmark used by members of the Company in assessing Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional applied financialperformance.
standards review team and independent partner reviews.
We agreed with the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, ACR Committee that we would report to the ACR Committee all in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law audit differences in excess of $2.5 million 2015: $1.5 million, as 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted to the Companys members those matters we are required to state reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the ACR to them in an Auditors report and or those further matters we have Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Matters on which we are required to report by exception company and the companys members as a body, for our audit Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and we have not received all the information and explanations we disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable require for our audit: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to been received from branches not visited by us: or the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied the financial statements are not in agreement with the and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting records and returns.
accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
presentation of the financial statements.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report including internal control, and assessing the risks of material Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material arerequired to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement annual report is: team.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies materially inconsistent with the information in the audited with the audited financial statements and to identify any information financial statements: or that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material inthecourse of performing our audit: or misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the John Adam annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors communicated to the ACR committee which we consider should London, United Kingdom have been disclosed.
February 22, 2017 We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
196 Shire Annual Report 2016 Shire plc report and financial statements Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2016 2016 2015 Note $M $M Turnover Administrative expenses 58.8 28.6 Operating loss 58.8 28.6 Interest receivable 2 0.3 Interest payable and similar charges 3 114.5 63.2 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 4 173.3 91.5 Taxation 7 Loss on ordinary activities after taxation and loss for the year 173.3 91.5 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the company 173.3 91.5 Shire Annual Report 2016 197 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Shire plc report and financial statements Statement of financial position as at December 31, 2016 2016 2015 Note $M $M Fixed assets Investments 9 38,361.5 16,704.8 Current assets Debtors 10 246.7 86.6 Current liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 11 6,318.6 4,715.6 Net current liabilities 6,071.9 4,629.0 Total assets less current liabilities 32,289.6 12,075.8 Provisions for liabilities and charges 13 623.5 Net assets 31,666.1 12,075.8 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 14 81.3 58.9 Share premium account 26,531.5 7,088.1 Share-based payments 919.3 608.2 Own shares held 14 243.5 260.5 Profit and loss account 4,377.5 4,581.1 Total equity 31,666.1 12,075.8 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial Statements Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Jeffrey Poulton Chief Financial Officer February 22, 2017 198 Shire Annual Report 2016 Shire plc report and financial statements Statement of changes in equity Share Share Share-based Own Profit & loss capital premium payments shares held account Total for the year ended December 31, 2015 Note $M $M $M $M $M $M Balance at January 1, 2015 58.7 7,071.7 512.4 275.6 4,690.1 12,057.3 Loss for the year and total comprehensive income 91.5 91.5 Transactions with owners in their capacity asowners: Dividends 8 6.8 6.8 Issue of shares on options exercised 14 0.2 16.4 16.6 Transfer of Treasury Shares for new share issue 15.1 15.1 Share-based payments 4.4 4.4 Capital contribution relating to share basedpayments 95.8 95.8 Total transactions with owners in their capacity asowners 0.2 16.4 95.8 15.1 17.5 110.0 Balance at December 31, 2015 58.9 7,088.1 608.2 260.5 4,581.1 12,075.8 Share Share Share-based Own Profit & loss capital premium payments shares held account Total for the year ended December 31, 2016 Note $M $M $M $M $M $M Balance at January 1, 2016 58.9 7,088.1 608.2 260.5 4,581.1 12,075.8 Loss for the year and total comprehensive income 173.3 173.3 Transactions with owners in their capacity asowners: Dividends 8 20.7 20.7 Issue of shares 14 22.4 19,443.4 19,465.8 Transfer of Treasury Shares for new share issue 17.0 17.0 Share-based payments 7.4 7.4 Capital contribution relating to share basedpayments 311.1 311.1 Total transactions with owners in their capacity asowners 22.4 19,443.4 311.1 17.0 30.3 19,763.6 Balance at December 31, 2016 81.3 26,531.5 919.3 243.5 4,377.5 31,666.1 Shire Annual Report 2016 199 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Shire plc report and financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended December 31, 2016 General information The financial statements of the Company are consolidated in the Shire plc the Company is a public company limited by shares, financial statements of Shire plc.
The consolidated financial incorporated in Jersey and tax resident in Ireland.
statements of Shire plc are available from its registered office at 22Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX, Channel Islands The address of the Companys registered office is 22 Grenville oron its website, www.
Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX, Channel Islands.
Going concern The address of the Companys principal place of business is The Groups balance sheet includes $528.8 million of cash and 5Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Republic cash equivalents as of December 31, 2016. ofIreland.
The Group has a revolving credit facility RCF of $2,100 million The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group and its principal which matures in 2021, $450 million of which was utilized as of activity is that of a holding company.
The RCF incorporates a $250 million U. S. Dollar and Euro swingline facility operating as a sub-limit thereof.
Basis of accounting These financial statements have been prepared in accordance On September 23, 2016, Shire Acquisitions Investments Ireland withFRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in Designated Activity Company SAIIDAC, a wholly owned theUK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and the requirements subsidiary of the Company, issued senior notes guaranteed by of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, and under the historical Shire plc, with a total aggregate principal amount of $12.1 billion.
On December 1, 2016, Baxalta guaranteed the outstanding notes issued by SAIIDAC.
Monetary amounts in these financial statements are rounded to thenearest whole $100,000, except where otherwise indicated.
In addition, in connection with the acquisition of Baxalta, on June3, 2016, Shire plc guaranteed senior notes issued by Baxalta Reduced disclosures totaling $5.0 billion and originally assumed $336.0 million of capital In accordance with FRS 102, the Company has taken advantage lease obligations.
The details of these senior notes are presented ofthe exemptions from the following disclosure requirements: inNote 18, Borrowings and Capital Lease Obligations, of the Shire Section 4 Statement of Financial Position Reconciliation Annual Report.
oftheopening and closing number of shares.
Further in connection with the acquisitions of Dyax and Baxalta, Section 7 Statement of Cash Flows Presentation of a respectively, the Group entered into a $5.6 billion term loan facility Statement of Cash Flow and related notes and disclosures.
in November 2015 and an $18.0 billion bridge loan in January Section 11 Basic Financial Instruments & Section 12 Other 2016.
The November 2015 term loan facility was fully utilized as of Financial Instrument Issues Carrying amounts, interest December 31, 2016 in the amount of $5.6 billion.
The bridge loan income expense and net gains losses for each category of was fully repaid and canceled subsequent to the issuance of financial instrument: basis of determining fair values: details of $12.1billion senior notes on September 23, 2016.
The details of collateral, loan defaults or breaches, details of hedges, hedging these facility agreements are presented in Note 18, Borrowings fair value changes recognized in profit or loss and in other and Capital Lease Obligations, of the Shire Annual Report.
Section 26 Share-based Payment Share-based payment In addition, the Group also has access to certain short-term expense charged to profit or loss, reconciliation of opening and uncommitted lines of credit which are available to utilize from time closing number and weighted average exercise price of share to time to provide short-term cash management flexibility.
As of options, how the fair value of options granted was measured, December 31, 2016, these lines of credit were not utilized.
measurement and carrying amount of liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments, explanation of modifications to The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company arrangements.
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Section 33 Related Party Disclosures Compensation for key foreseeable future.
Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the management personnel.
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the report and financial statements.
The financial statements of the Company are consolidated in the financial statements of Shire plc.
The consolidated financial Functional and presentational currencies statements of Shire plc are available from www.
The financial statements are presented in U. S. Dollars which is also the functional currency of the Company.
Consolidated financial statements Foreign currencies Consolidated accounts prepared in conformity with accounting Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency principles generally accepted in the United States of America foreign currencies are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling USGAAP, in which the financial results and cash flow statement on the date of the transaction.
of the Company and its subsidiaries are included, can be found in the Shire Annual Report.
Consequently, these financial statements Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies present the financial position and financial performance of the are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with currencies are translated at the rate ruling at the date of the the Companys accounting policies described below, which have transaction or, if the asset or liability is measured at fair value, the been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding rate when that fair value was determined.
year and have been approved by the Board.
200 Shire Annual Report 2016 All translation differences are taken to profit or loss, except to the Current and deferred tax is charged or credited in profit or loss, extent that they relate to gains or losses on non-monetary items except when it relates to items charged or credited to other recognized in other comprehensive income, when the related comprehensive income or equity, when the tax follows the translation gain or loss is also recognized in other comprehensive transaction or event it relates to and is also charged or credited to income.
other comprehensive income, or equity.
Other income Current tax assets and current tax liabilities and deferred tax Interest income assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if and only if, there is a Interest income is accrued on a time-apportioned basis, by legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and the entity reference to the principal outstanding at the effective interest rate.
intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries is recognized Employee benefits when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognized as a liability and an expense.
Borrowing costs Retirement benefits Finance costs relating to debt issued are recorded as a deferred The Company contributes to personal defined contribution pension charge and amortized to the statements of income over the period plans of employees.
Contributions are charged to the profit and to the earliest redemption date of the debt, using the effective loss account as they become payable.
Differences between interest rate method.
On extinguishment of the related debt, any contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid unamortized deferred financing costs are written off and charged are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
to interest expense in the consolidated statements of income.
Fixed asset investments Financial instruments Interests in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities The Company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost Basic Financial Instruments and Section 12 Other Financial less any accumulated impairment losses.
Instruments Issues of FRS 102, in full, to all of its financial instruments.
Interests in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities are assessed for impairment at each reporting date.
Any Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized when the impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses are recognized Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the immediately in profit or loss.
instrument, and are offset only when the Company currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts and Taxation intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax expense settle the liability simultaneously.
Current tax assets are recognized when Financial assets tax paid exceeds the tax payable.
Trade debtors Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit Trade debtors which are receivable within one year and which do differs from total comprehensive income because it excludes items not constitute a financing transaction are initially measured at the of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other transaction price.
Trade debtors are subsequently measured at periods.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax amortized cost, being the transaction price less any amounts rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the settled and any impairment losses.
Where the arrangement with a trade debtor constitutes a financing Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to transaction, the debtor is initially and subsequently measured at apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is the present value of future payments discounted at a market rate of settled based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively interest for a similar debt instrument.
enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
A provision for impairment of trade debtors is established when Deferred tax liabilities are recognized in respect of all timing there is objective evidence that the amounts due will not be differences that exist at the reporting date.
Timing differences are collected according to the original terms of the contract.
differences between taxable profits and total comprehensive Impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss for the excess of income that arise from the inclusion of income and expenses in tax the carrying value of the trade debtor over the present value of the assessments in different periods from their recognition in the future cash flows discounted using the original effective interest financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognized only to the rate.
Subsequent reversals of an impairment loss that objectively extent that it is probable that they will be recovered by the reversal relate to an event occurring after the impairment loss was of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable profits.
recognized, are recognized immediately in profit or loss.
Deferred tax is recognized on income or expenses from Financial liabilities and equity subsidiaries, associates, branches and interests in jointly controlled Financial instruments are classified as liabilities and equity entities, that will be assessed to or allow for tax in a future period instruments according to the substance of the contractual except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract timing difference and it is probable that the timing difference will that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company not reverse in the foreseeable future.
after deducting all of its liabilities.
Shire Annual Report 2016 201 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Accounting policies continued Equity instruments Share based payments Financial instruments classified as equity instruments are recorded The Company grants share options equity-settled share-based at the fair value of the cash or other resources received or payments to certain employees.
receivable, net of direct costs of issuing the equity instruments.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value Own shares atthe date of grant by reference to the fair value of the equity The fair value of consideration given for shares repurchased by the instruments granted.
Options and performance share awards Company is deducted from equity.
granted without market conditions are valued using the BlackScholes option-pricing model.
Options and performance share Trade creditors awards granted with market conditions are valued using a Trade creditors payable within one year that do not constitute a binomialmodel.
financing transaction are initially measured at the transaction price and subsequently measured at amortized cost, being the The Company participates in a share-based payment arrangement transaction price less any amounts settled.
granted to its employees and employees of its subsidiaries.
The Company has elected to recognize and measure its share-based Where the arrangement with a trade creditor constitutes a financing payment expense on the basis of a reasonable allocation of the transaction, the creditor is initially and subsequently measured at expense for the Group.
the present value of future payments discounted at a market rate ofinterest for a similar instrument.
The cost for awards granted to the Companys subsidiaries employees represents additional capital contributions by the Borrowings Company in its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in Borrowings are initially recognized at the transaction price, subsidiaries has been recorded in respect of those awards granted including transaction costs, and subsequently measured at to the Companys subsidiaries employees, with a corresponding amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Interest increase in the Companys shareholders equity.
The additional expense is recognized on the basis of the effective interest method capital contribution is based on the fair value at the grant date of and is included in interest payable and other similar charges.
This accounting treatment applies as the parent has granted the share option rather than being subsidiary granting Commitments to receive a loan are measured at cost less an option in the parents equity.
Dividends Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Dividends are recognized as liabilities once they are no longer at A financial asset is derecognized only when the contractual rights the discretion of the Company.
to cash flows expire or are settled, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to another party, or if some significant risks and rewards of ownership are retained but control of the asset has transferred to another party that is able to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third-party.
A financial liability or part thereof is derecognized when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, canceled or expires.
202 Shire Annual Report 2016 Shire plc report and financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 1.
Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgment 6.
Employees Estimates and judgment are continually evaluated and are based The average monthly number of persons including directors on historical experience and other factors, including expectations employed by the Company during the year was: of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 2016 2015 circumstances.
No No Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgment Directors 2 1 The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates and assumptions will, by There were no staff other than the Directors.
definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates Directors and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material In respect of the Directors of Shire plc: adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: 2016 2015 $M $M The only critical accounting judgments which the Directors believe are relevant to these financial statements are those relating to the Wages and salaries 4.0 2.1 treatment of share based payments in the company.
Please see Social security costs 0.1 0.1 the accounting policy above for treatment of the share based Defined contribution pension costs 0.1 0.1 payments in these financial statements.
Employee share schemes 7.4 4.4 Directors fees 2.4 2.6 2.
Interest receivable and similar income 14.0 9.3 2016 2015 $M $M 2016 2015 No No Interest receivable on deposit to Groupundertakings 0.3 The number of Directors to whom retirement benefits are accruing under money purchase schemes was: 2 2 3.
Interest payable and similar charges The number of Directors who exercised share options during the year was: 2 2 2016 2015 $M $M The number of Directors who received shares Interest arising on bank loans 18.3 29.1 under long term incentive schemes was: 2 2 Interest arising on loans from group Directors emoluments disclosed above include the following undertakings 78.1 34.1 payments made to the highest paid Director: Unwinding of discount on provisions note 13 18.1 114.5 63.2 2016 2015 $M $M Remuneration 3.6 1.6 4.
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation Company contributions to money purchase Loss on ordinary activities is stated after charging crediting : pension schemes 0.1 0.1 2016 2015 Share based payments 6.1 4.1 $M $M 9.8 5.8 Share based payments 7.4 4.4 Foreign exchange gains 0.3 Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and its associates in respect of both audit and non-audit services are borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
Segmental reporting The directors consider that the Company, in its capacity as a holding company, operates as one operating segment.
Therefore, there is no additional disclosure to make as required by FRS 102 paragraph 1.5.
Shire Annual Report 2016 203 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Fixed asset investments There was $nil corporation tax charged for the year ended Subsidiary December 31, 2016 2015: $nil.
undertakings Factors affecting the tax charge for the year.
$M Cost The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of As at January 1, 2016 16,704.8 corporation tax in Ireland of 25 percent 2015: 25 percent.
The Additions 60,236.6 differences are explained below: Capital contribution relating to share based payments 311.1 2016 2015 Disposals 38,891.0 $M $M As at December 31, 2016 38,361.5 Company losses on ordinary activities Net book value beforetax 173.3 91.5 As at December 31, 2016 38,361.5 Company loss on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax of 25 As at December 31, 2015 16,704.8 percent 2015: 25 percent : 43.3 22.9 Effects of: On January 22, 2016, the company subscribed for an additional Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 35.3 17.1 380,000,000 Ordinary Shares in Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Group relief surrendered 8.0 5.8 Ireland Limited, for total cash consideration of $1,900,000,000.
On June 03, 2016, the company subscribed for 611.34 Ordinary Shares in Baxalta Inc, in exchange for 305,213,250 Ordinary The Company had an unrecognized deferred tax asset of Shares in the company, for total consideration of $19,445,541,480.
$21.8million 2015: $21.8 million in respect of losses as at On June 03, 2016, the company subscribed for 15,438.59 Ordinary December 31, 2016.
Shares in Dyax Corp, in exchange for its entire shareholding of 611.34 Ordinary Shares in Baxalta Inc, for total consideration 8.
2016 2015 On June 06, 2016, the company contributed its entire shareholding $M $M in Dyax Corp in exchange for an additional 100,000,000 Ordinary Second interim dividend 22.16 cents Shares in Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited, for total 15.32pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent consideration of $19,445,541,480.
to 66.48 cents per ADS, paid inApril 2016 130.2 First interim dividend 4.63 cents Subsidiaries 3.51pence per Ordinary Share, equivalentto The Company directly owned 100 percent of the issued Ordinary 13.89 cents per ADS, paid inOctober 2016 41.1 Share capital of the following companies at December 31, 2016: Second interim dividend 19.09 cents 12.51pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent Principal Country of to 57.27 cents per ADS, paid inApril 2015 110.2 Company activities incorporation First interim dividend 4.21 cents Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Holding Republic 2.69pence per Ordinary Share, equivalentto Ireland Limited company ofIreland 12.63 cents per ADS, paid inOctober 2015 24.2 Holding United States Shire Regenerative Medicine LLC company ofAmerica 171.3 134.4 Details of the Companys indirect subsidiaries can be found in Of the above amounts, the Company paid dividends amounting Note31 of the Shire Annual Report in the consolidated accounts to$20.7 million in the year 2015: $6.8 million.
In accordance with for the year ending December 31, 2016.
IAS arrangements, the Company directed Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings to pay dividends totaling $150.6 million 2015: $127.6 million to those shareholders who choose to 10.
Debtors receive their dividends from a company tax resident in the UK.
2016 2015 The Board has resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 25.70 $M $M cents 20.64 pence per Ordinary Share equivalent to 77.10 cents Amounts due from Group undertakings 242.0 80.7 per ADS for the six months to December 31, 2016.
Other debtors 4.7 5.9 246.7 86.6 The amounts due from Group undertakings are primarily U. S. Dollar denominated and non-interest bearing.
At December 31, 2016 an amount of $1.0 million 2015: $nil bore interest at floating rates.
The remaining balance is non-interest bearing.
All amounts due from Group undertakings are repayable on demand.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 14.
Share capital and reserves 2016 2015 2016 2016 2015 2015 $M $M Share capital No $M No $M Bank loan note 12 450.0 1,500.0 Allotted, issued Amounts owed to Group undertakings 5,867.4 3,205.3 andfully paid Accrued interest 0.7 0.6 Ordinary Shares of5p each 912,173,612 81.3 601,075,964 58.9 Other creditors 0.5 9.7 Subscriber Ordinary 6,318.6 4,715.6 Shares of 1 each 2 2 The amounts due to Group undertakings are primarily unsecured, 81.3 58.9 U. S. Dollar denominated, repayable on demand and bear interest at floating rates of interest.
As at December 31, 2016, the Companys authorized ordinary share capital comprised 1,500,000,000 2015: 1,000,000,000 12.
Borrowings Ordinary Shares of 5p each and 2 2015: 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares of 1 each.
2016 2015 Ordinary Share rights $M $M The Companys Ordinary Shares, which carry no right to fixed Bank loan 450.0 1,500.0 income, each carry the right to one vote at general meetings oftheCompany.
On February 22, 2016, Shire repaid in full the remaining balance under the $850 million term loan facility agreement dated As at December 31, 2016, the Companys issued Ordinary Share January11, 2015 2015 Facility Agreement.
During the year, capital comprised 904,202,151 2015: 592,548,261 Ordinary Shirerepaid borrowings under the 2014 Revolving Credit Facility Shares of 5p each with voting rights and a further 7,971,461 2015: RCF, which matures in 2021, and utilized the RCF to partially 8,527,703 Ordinary Shares held in treasury.
Therefore the total finance the acquisition of Dyax Corp on January 22, 2016 and for number of voting rights in the Company at December 31, 2016 was general corporate purposes.
At December 31, 2016 $450 million 2015: $750 million of the RCF Share issues was utilized.
The 2015 Facility Agreement was fully repaid During the year 5,884,398 2015: 2,018,462 Ordinary Shares of 5p andcanceled in February 2016 2015: $750 million.
each were issued as part of the Shire Groups share based payment scheme.
Borrowings under the RCF are denominated in U. S. Dollars and bear interest at a floating rate of interest.
On June 3, 2016, 305,213,250 Ordinary Shares of 5p each were issued as part of the Shire Groups acquisition of Baxalta.
Provisions for liabilities Share option scheme Further details in respect of the Ordinary Shares reserved for issue Dyax under the Companys share option plan can be found in Note 28 of Corp Total $000 $000 the Shire Annual Report.
As at January 1, 2016 Share premium Additional provision in year 605.4 605.4 Consideration received for shares issued above their nominal value Unwinding of discount on provisions note 3 18.1 18.1 net of transaction costs.
As at December 31, 2016 623.5 623.5 Purchase of own shares The treasury shares reserve represents the cost of shares in the Dyax Corp Company purchased in the market and held by the Company for the On January 22, 2016 the Group purchased Dyax Corp. As part of purpose of returning funds to shareholders.
The number of Ordinary this agreement Shire plc is liable for total undiscounted future Shares of 5p each held by the Company as at December 31, 2016 potential liabilities of $645.9 million 2015: $nil upon approval by was 7,971,461 with a purchase value of $243.5 million 2015: the FDA of DX-2930 for HAE.
8,527,703 with a purchase value of $260.5 million including transaction costs.
At the reporting date the directors consider it probable that this condition will be met and the present value of this liability Share based payment reserve recognized above is $623.5 million 2015: $nil.
The directors The cumulative share-based payment expense.
estimate that this provision will unwind within two years of the Retained earnings reporting date.
Cumulative profit and loss net of distributions to owners.
In consideration for Shire plc taking on the obligation to pay the deferred contingent consideration, Shire Pharmaceuticals International, a Group Company, agreed to reimburse Shire plc $605.4 million, $209.0 million of which is still outstanding and included within amounts due from group undertakings in note 10.
Shire Annual Report 2016 205 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Capital commitments and other contractual obligations Shire shall also pay i a commitment fee equal to 35 percent of the Senior Notes Issuance applicable margin on available commitments under the RCF for the On September 23, 2016, SAIIDAC, issued senior notes offering availability period applicable thereto and ii a utilization fee equal to a 0.10 percent per year of the aggregate of all outstanding loans with a total aggregate principal value of $12.1 billion SAIIDAC up to an aggregate base currency amount equal to $700.0 million, Notes, guaranteed by Shire plc and, as of December 1, 2016, by b 0.15 percent per year of the amount by which the aggregate Baxalta.
SAIIDAC used the net proceeds to fully repay amounts base currency amount of all outstanding loans exceeds $700.0 outstanding under the January 2016 Facilities Agreement million but is equal to or less than $1,400.0 million and c 0.30 discussed below, which was used to finance the cash percent per year of the amount by which the aggregate base consideration payable related to the Companys acquisition currency amount of all outstanding loans exceeds $1,400.0 million.
The SAIIDAC Notes are senior unsecured obligations and may be The RCF includes customary representations and warranties, redeemed at SAIIDACs option at the greater of 1 100 percent of covenants and events of default, including requirements that the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest or 2 the Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA in respect of the most sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of recently-ended 12-month relevant period each as defined in the interest and principal discounted to the date of redemption on a RCF must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 except that, following an semi-annual basis at the applicable treasury rate as defined plus acquisition fulfilling certain criteria, Shire may elect to increase this an incremental margin, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid ratio to a 5.5:1 for the relevant period in which the acquisition was interest.
The SAIIDAC Notes also contain a change of control completed b 5.0:1 in respect of the first relevant period following provision that may require that SAIIDAC to offer to purchase the the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed and SAIIDAC Notes at a price equal to 101 percent of the principal c 4.5:1 in respect of the second relevant period following the amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase relevant period in which the acquisition was completed, and under certain circumstances.
On December 1, 2016, Baxalta Inc. ii ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest for the most recently-ended Baxalta, a wholly owned subsidiary of Shire plc, fully and 12-month relevant period each as defined in the RCF must not unconditionally guaranteed the SAIIDAC Notes.
Shire elected to increase the Net Debt to EBITDA ratio in connection with the period ending June 30, 2016, The costs and discount associated with this offering of $60.8 following the completion of the acquisition of Baxalta during the million have been recorded as a reduction to the carrying amount period.
Consequently, the applicable ratio for the period ending of the debt on the statement of financial position.
These costs will December 31, 2016 is 5.0:1. be amortized as additional interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the period from issuance through The RCF restricts, subject to certain exceptions, Shires ability to maturity.
Interest on the SAIIDAC Notes is payable March 23 and incur additional financial indebtedness, grant security over its September 23 of each year, beginning on March 23, 2017. assets or provide loans grant credit.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is a Baxalta Notes change of control of Shire, subject to certain exceptions for Shire plc guaranteed senior notes issued by Baxalta with a total schemes of arrangement and analogous schemes.
aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion in connection with the Events of default under the RCF include, subject to customary Baxalta acquisition Baxalta Notes.
grace periods and materiality thresholds: i non-payment of any Revolving Credit Facilities Agreement amounts due under the finance documents as defined in the On December 12, 2014, Shire entered into a $2,100.0 million RCF, ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants, iii material revolving credit facilities agreement the RCF with a number of misrepresentation in any of the finance documents, iv failure to financial institutions.
Shire is an original borrower and original pay, or certain other defaults, under other financial indebtedness, guarantor under the RCF.
On January 15, 2016, SAIIDAC became v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse an additional guarantor under the RCF and on December 1, 2016, changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition Baxalta became an additional guarantor under the RCF.
Shire has of Shire as a whole, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that become successor parent company or any of their respective subsidiaries additional borrowers under the RCF.
Asof December 31, 2016 the that are parties to the RCF to perform their obligations thereunder Company utilized $450.0 million of theRCF.
or viii if Shire or any successor parent company or any subsidiary thereof which is a party to the RCF repudiates such agreement or The RCF, which terminates on December 12, 2021, may be applied other finance document, among others.
towards financing the general corporate purposes of Shire.
The RCF incorporates a $250.0 million U. S. Dollar and Euro swingline January 2016 Facilities Agreement facility operating as a sub-limit thereof.
On January 11, 2016, Shire as original guarantor and original borrower, entered into an $18.0 billion bridge facilities agreement Interest on any loans made under the RCF is payable on the last with various financial institutions the January 2016 Facilities day of each interest period, which may be one week or one, two, Agreement.
The January 2016 Facilities Agreement comprised three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed two credit facilities: i a $13.0 billion term loan facility originally with the lenders.
The interest rate for the RCF is: LIBOR or, in maturing on January 11, 2017 January 2016 Facility A and ii a relation to any revolving loan in Euro, EURIBOR : plus 0.30 percent $5.0 billion revolving loan facility originally maturing on January 11, per annum subject to change depending upon i the prevailing 2017 January 2016 Facility B.
On April 1, 2016 SAIIDAC became ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA each as defined in the RCF in respect an additional borrower and additional guarantor under the January of the most recently completed financial year or financial half year 2016 Facilities Agreement.
and ii the occurrence and continuation of an event of default in respect of the financial covenants or the failure to provide a The January 2016 Facility A was utilized to finance the cash compliance certificate.
consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of Baxalta on 206 Shire Annual Report 2016 June 3, 2016 in the amount of $12,390.0 million.
The net proceeds The November 2015 Facilities Agreement restricts, subject to from the issuance of the SAIIDAC Notes were used to fully repay certain exceptions, Shires ability to incur additional financial the amounts outstanding under the January 2016 Facility A in indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide loans grant credit.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of September 2016.
The January 2016 Facility B was canceled its participation if there is a change of control of Shire, subject to effective July 11, 2016, in accordance with its terms.
certain exceptions for schemes of arrangement and analogous November 2015 Facilities Agreement schemes.
On November 2, 2015, Shire as original guarantor and original borrower entered into a $5.6 billion facilities agreement with Events of default under the November 2015 Facilities Agreement various financial institutions the November 2015 Facilities include, subject to customary grace periods and materiality Agreement.
The November 2015 Facilities Agreement comprises thresholds: i non-payment of any amounts due under the three credit facilities: i a $1.0 billion term loan facility of which, financedocuments as defined in the November 2015 Facilities following the exercise of the one year extension option in the Agreement, ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants, iii material amount of $400.0 million, $600.0 million matured and was repaid misrepresentation in any of the finance documents, iv failure to on November 2, 2016 and $400.0 million matures on November 2, pay, or certain other defaults, under other financial indebtedness, 2017 November 2015 Facility A, ii a $2.2 billion amortizing term v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse loan facility which matures on November 2, 2017 November 2015 changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition Facility B and iii a $2.4 billion amortizing term loan facility which of Shire as a whole, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any matures on November 2, 2018 November 2015 Facility C. successor parent company or any of their respective subsidiaries that are parties to the November 2015 Facilities Agreement On January 15, 2016, SAIIDAC became an additional borrower toperform their obligations thereunder or viii if Shire or any andan additional guarantor under the November 2015 Facilities successor parent company or any subsidiary thereof which is a Agreement and on December 1, 2016, Baxalta became an party to the November 2015 Facilities Agreement repudiates the additional guarantor under the November 2015 Facilities November 2015 Facilities Agreement or any other finance Agreement.
As of December 31, 2016, the November 2015 document, among others.
Facilities Agreement was fully utilized by SAIIDAC as borrower inthe amount of $5.0 billion to finance the cash consideration January 2015 Facility Agreement payable and certain costs related to the acquisition of Dyax.
On January 11, 2015, Shire entered into an $850.0 million term OnJanuary 30, 2017, SAIIDAC made its first repayment installment facility agreement with various financial institutions the January of $400.0 million of November 2015 Facility B in accordance with 2015 Facility Agreement with an original maturity date of January the terms of the agreement.
The maturity date was subsequently extended to July 11, 2016 in line with the provisions within the January 2015 Facility Interest on any loans made under the November 2015 Facilities Agreement allowing the maturity date to be extended twice, at Agreement is payable on the last day of each interest period, which Shires option, by six months on each occasion.
may be one week or one, two, three or six months, or as otherwise The January 2015 Facility Agreement was used to finance Shires agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate applicable is LIBOR plus, acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
On in the case of the November 2015 Facility A, 0.55 percent per September 28, 2015, the Company reduced the January 2015 annum, in the case of the November 2015 Facility B, 0.65 percent Facility Agreement by $100.0 million.
In January 2016 and at per annum and, in the case of the November 2015 Facility C, various points thereafter, the Company canceled parts of the 0.75percent per annum, in each case subject to change depending January 2015 Facilities Agreement.
On February 22, 2016, the on i the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA each as defined in Company repaid the remaining balance of $100.0 million of the the November 2015 Facilities Agreement in respect of the most January 2015 Facilities Agreement in full.
recently completed financial year or financial half year and ii the occurrence and continuation of an event of default in respect of the financial covenants or failure to provide a compliance certificate.
Retirement benefits The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme The November 2015 Facilities Agreement includes customary forall qualifying employees in the United Kingdom.
The assets of representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, the scheme are held separately from those of the Company in an including requirements that Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA independently administered fund.
The contributions payable by inrespect of the most recently ended 12-month relevant period, theCompany charged to profit or loss amounted to $nil 2015: $nil.
each as defined in the November 2015 Facilities Agreement, must Contributions totaling $nil 2015: $nil were payable to the fund at not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1, except that following an acquisition the year end and are included in creditors.
fulfilling certain criteria, Shire may elect to increase this ratio to a 5.5:1 for the relevant period in which the acquisition was 17.
Share based payments completed, b 5.0:1 in respect of the first relevant period following Group share based payment plans the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed, and The Company participates in group share-based payment plans, c 4.5:1 in respect of the second relevant period following the and recognizes and measures its share-based payment expense relevant period in which the acquisition was completed, Shire has on the basis of a reasonable allocation of the expense recognized elected to increase this ratio in connection with the period ending for the Group in accordance with paragraph 26.16 of FRS 102.
June 30, 2016, following the completion of the acquisition of Theallocation is based on the number of employees benefiting Baxalta during the period and ii ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest from the share-based payment plan employed by each group inrespect of the most recently ended 12 month relevant period, entity.
During the year there were no individuals directly employed each as defined in the November 2015 Facilities Agreement, by the Company and the Directors of the Company referenced mustnot be less than 4.0:1. inNote 6 are contractual employees of a Group undertaking.
Shire Annual Report 2016 207 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Share based payments continued As at December 31, 2016, there were no awards outstanding Certain employees are contractually employed by other group under this plan.
entities with elements of their payroll costs, including the share Replacement Awards Issued to Baxalta Employees based payment charge relating to those employees, recharged to In connection with the acquisition of Baxalta and pursuant to the Shire plc on the basis of the fair value of the work performed.
merger agreement associated with the acquisition, outstanding Share options relating to those employees are not included in the Baxalta equity awards held by Baxalta employees or employees disclosures given below relating to each of the schemes currently ofBaxter were canceled and exchanged for Shire equity awards.
The outstanding Baxalta equity awards consisted primarily of stock Stock-settled SARs and stock options SARs under LTIP options and RSUs and hence were replaced with Shires stock and PSP Part A options and RSUs.
The replacement Shire awards generally have Stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs, granted to Executive the same terms and conditions including vesting as the former Directors, are exercisable subject to service and performance criteria.
Baxalta awards for which they were exchanged.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors under the LTIP, As at December 31, 2016, there were no Replacement performance criteria are based on Product Sales and Non GAAP Awardsoutstanding.
EBITDA targets, with a Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin.
In Valuation methodologies respect of any award made to Executive Directors under the PSP The Company estimates the fair value of its share-based awards Part A, performance criteria are based on growth in Non GAAP using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Key input assumptions Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
These performance used to estimate the fair value of share-based awards include the measures are an important measure of the Companys ability to meet grant price of the award, the expected stock-based award term, the strategic objective to grow value for all of its stakeholders.
volatility of the Companys share price, the risk-free rate and the Companys dividend yield.
The Company believes that the Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are not valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the subject to performance conditions and are only subject to service underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair conditions.
values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are Once awards have vested, participants will have until the seventh not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original As at December 31, 2016, there were no awards outstanding estimates of fair value made by the Company.
UK Irish Sharesave Plans Sharesave Plans 18.
Related party transactions Options granted under the Sharesave Plans are granted with an The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 33 exercise price equal to 80 percent and 75 percent of the mid-market of FRS 102 to not disclose transactions with wholly owned price on the day before invitations are issued to UK and Ireland Groupcompanies.
Employees may enter into three or five year The Directors consider that they are the only key management savings contracts.
personnel of the company and details in respect of their As at December 31, 2016, there were no awards outstanding remuneration is given in Note 6 to these financial statements.
Shire Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85 percent of the fair market value of a share on the enrollment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 12 months.
As at December 31, 2016, there were no awards outstanding under this plan.
RSUs and PSUs under LTIP and PSAs under PSP Part B PSUs and PSAs granted to Executive Directors and PSUs granted to certain senior employees are exercisable subject to certain performance and service criteria.
RSUs and PSAs granted to employees below Executive Director are not subject to performance criteria and are only subject to service conditions.
The performance criteria for PSUs granted under the LTIP is based on Product sales and Non GAAP EBITDA targets, typically with a Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin.
The performance criteria for PSAs under the PSP Part B is based on growth in Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
208 Shire Annual Report 2016 Trademarks We own or have rights to trademarks, service marks or trade names that we use in connection with the operation of our business.
In addition, our names, logos and website names and addresses are owned by us or licensed by us.
We also own or have the rights to copyrights that protect the content of our solutions.
Solely for convenience, the trademarks, service marks, trade names and copyrights referred to in this Annual Report are listed without the, and symbols, but we will assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, the Companys rights or the rights of the applicable licensors to these trademarks, service marks, trade names and copyrights.
This Annual Report may include trademarks, service marks or trade names of other companies.
The use or display of other parties trademarks, service marks, trade names or products isnot intended to, and does not imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, the trademark, service mark or trade name.
Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Print managed by urbanprintsupport.
co. uk Printed by Cousin, who have FSCchain of custody certification.
Theyalsouse vegetable-based inks and have ISO14001 .
This report is printed on XPer, whichis FSC accredited.
Shire plc Annual Report 2016 The global leader in rarediseases Shire plc 5 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland www.
