com I Stock code: SHI Statement of Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies adopted in this Annual Report At the date of authorisation of these Accounts, the following and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 are set out significant standards and interpretations, which have not been below.
applied in these Accounts, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU : BASIS OF PREPARATION IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for accounting The Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and therefore the Group Accounts comply with Article The standard is applicable to financial assets and financial liabilities, 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
and covers the classification, measurement, impairment and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities together with The Accounts have been prepared under the historical cost a new hedge accounting model.
convention except for derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair value.
This standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups results, with the key changes for SIG being around The Accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis as set documentation of policies, hedging strategy and new hedge out on page 34. documentation.
The Group is committed to managing its capital structure to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers ensure that entities in the Group are able to continue as a going effective for accounting periods beginning on or after concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the 1 January 2018 optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
Further details can be found on page 31.
The standard sets out the requirements for recognising revenue from contracts with customers.
The transaction price receivable The following standards were amended in the current period: from customers must be allocated to distinct performance z obligations, on a relative standalone selling price basis, based on a Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions amendments to five-step model.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits z Annual improvements 2010-2012 cycle The Group expects to complete its analysis of the expected impacts of the transition to IFRS 15 during 2017, in terms of both revenue z Annual improvements 2012-2014 cycle recognition and disclosure requirements.
An analysis of the Groups z Disclosure Initiative amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of revenue, including that related to construction contracts, is provided Financial Statements.
Adoption of the above standards has not had a material impact on IFRS 16 Leases effective for accounting periods the Accounts of the Group.
beginning on or after 1 January 2019 In March 2016, the IFRS Interpretations Committee issued an The standard eliminates the classification of leases as either agenda decision which clarified the circumstances in which certain operating leases or finance leases and introduces a single lessee Balance Sheet items can be offset in accordance with IAS 32 accounting model where the lessee is required to recognise assets Financial Instruments: Presentation.
It was determined that where and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or a Group does not expect to settle subsidiaries bank balances on less, or the underlying asset is of low value.
a net basis, these balances cannot be offset.
In response to this, The Group is in the process of quantifying the impact of the new the Group has reviewed its cash pooling arrangements which has standard.
This will have a material impact on the Groups results resulted in changes to the amounts that can be offset.
Comparative and balance sheet, as a significant number of arrangements that information for the year ended 31 December 2015 has been are currently accounted for as operating leases will come onto the restated.
The impact of this change on 2015 is to increase both Groups Balance Sheet.
The Groups current lease commitments cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts in the Consolidated are disclosed in Note 29b.
In addition, the Group has also reviewed the presentation of its supplier rebates receivable: in particular There are no other standards or interpretations issued but not supplier rebates where there is no right to offset against trade yet effective which are expected to have a material impact on the payable balances.
As a result comparative information for the year Group.
ended 31 December 2015 has been restated.
The impact of this change is an increase in respect of both prepayments and accrued income and trade payables of 53.2m.
There was no overall impact on net debt or net assets from either restatement.
93 25165.04 27 March 2017 12:15 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies CONTINUED Goodwill recorded in foreign currencies is retranslated at each BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION period end.
Any movements in the carrying value of goodwill as a The Consolidated Accounts incorporate the Accounts of the result of foreign exchange rate movements are recognised in the Company and each of its subsidiary undertakings after eliminating Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
all significant intercompany transactions and balances.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold are consolidated for the Any excess of the fair value of net assets over consideration arising periods from or to the date on which control passed.
on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately therein.
Non-controlling FOREIGN CURRENCY interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the original business combination and the non-controlling interests local currency and converted at actual exchange rates at the date of share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange Losses attributable to the non-controlling interest in excess of their rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interest exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated IncomeStatement.
of SIG except to the extent that the non-controlling interest has a binding obligation andis able to make an additional investment to At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities cover the losses.
denominated in foreign currencies are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The On consolidation, assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling undertakings are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which translated into Sterling at the average rate of exchange for the year.
the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and assets and results of overseas operations, and on foreign currency attributed to the Shareholders of the Company.
borrowings, to the extent that they hedgethe Groups investment Profit and loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between in such operations, are reported in the Consolidated Statement of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the Comprehensive Income.
previous carrying amount of the net assets including goodwill and On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the exchange intangible assets of the businesses.
differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation are All results are from continuing operations under IFRS as the reclassified to the Consolidated IncomeStatement.
businesses identified as non-core in 2016 and operations closed in 2015 did not meet the disclosure criteria of being discontinued CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT operations as they did not individually or in aggregate represent a DISCLOSURE separate major line of business or geographical area of operation.
In In order to give an indication of the underlying earnings of order to give an indication of the underlying earnings of the Group the Group, certain items are presented in the column of the the results of these businesses have been included in the column of Consolidated Income Statement entitled Other items.
These the Consolidated Income Statement entitled Other items.
include: GOODWILL AND BUSINESS COMBINATIONS z amortisation of acquired intangibles All business combinations are accounted for by applying the z goodwill and intangible impairment charges purchase method.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the z profits and losses on agreed sale or closure of non-core excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in businesses and associated impairment charges the fair value of identifiable assets including intangible assets and liabilities of the business acquired.
z net operating losses attributable to businesses identified as noncore in 2016 Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, z net restructuring costs or more frequently when there isan indication that goodwill may z acquisition expenses and contingent consideration be impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs z the defined benefit pension scheme curtailment loss expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the z other one-off items recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of z the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying unwinding of provision discounting amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other z fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of z one-off recognition of deferred tax assets each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised on goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
z the taxation effect of Other items On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of remaining z the effect of the change in taxation rates.
goodwill relating to the entity disposed of is included in the determination of any profit or loss ondisposal.
com I Stock code: SHI In accordance with IAS 12, the following temporary differences are REVENUE RECOGNITION not provided for: Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and z goodwill not deductible for taxation purposes services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts z the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither and customer rebates, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
The accounting nor taxable profit Group principally earns revenue from the distribution of construction products and is able to recognise revenue on receipt of the goods z differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent by the customer.
Customer rebates are accounted for as a separate that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
component of the sales transaction in which they are granted.
A The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected portion of the fair value of the consideration received is allocated manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets to customer rebates and recognised in the period as earned.
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by Wherever revenue is generated from a contract to provide services, the balance sheet date.
it is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which SUPPLIER REBATES the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the Supplier rebate income is significant to the Groups result, with a extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be substantial proportion of purchases covered by rebate agreements.
Some supplier rebate agreements are non-coterminous with the SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS Groups financial year, and firm confirmation of amounts due may The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based not be received until six months after the balance sheet date.
Share options are measured at fair Where the Group relies on estimates, these are made with reference value at the date of grant based on the Groups estimate of the to contracts or other agreements, management forecasts and number of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value determined detailed operational workbooks.
Supplier rebate income estimates is then expensed in the Consolidated Income Statement on a are regularly reviewed by senior management.
straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity equity-settled share options or in liabilities cashWhere supplier rebates are offset against amounts owing to that settled share options.
The fair value of the options is measured supplier, any outstanding amount at the balance sheet date is using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Where the supplier rebates are not netted off the amounts owing to that supplier, the outstanding The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the amount is included within prepayments and accrued income.
The actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is carrying value of inventory is reduced by the associated amount only due to share prices notachieving the threshold for vesting.
where the inventory has yet to be sold at the balance sheet date.
For equity-settled share options, at each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate of the number of share options expected OPERATING PROFIT to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting Operating profit is stated after charging distribution, selling and conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if marketing costs and administrative expenses but before finance any, is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement such income and finance costs.
that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
TAXATION Income tax on the profit or loss for the periods presented comprises For cash-settled share options, a liability is recognised for the goods both current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
any changes in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to liabilities.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates that have been enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities forfinancial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
95 25165.04 27 March 2017 12:15 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies CONTINUED INTANGIBLE ASSETS LEASES AND HIRE PURCHASE AGREEMENTS The Group recognises intangible assets at cost less accumulated The cost of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase amortisation and impairment losses.
The Group recognises two agreements is capitalised with an equivalent liability categorised types of intangible asset: acquired and purchased.
Acquired as appropriate under current liabilities or non-current liabilities.
The intangible assets arise as a result of applying IFRS 3 Business asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or its useful Combinations which requires the separate recognition of intangible life.
assets from goodwill on all business combinations.
Purchased Rentals under finance leases and hire purchase agreements are intangible assets relate primarily to software that is separable from apportioned between finance costs and reduction of the lease any associated hardware.
obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their remaining balance of the liability.
The finance costs are charged in useful economic lives as follows: arriving at profit before tax.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Current estimate Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Amortisation period of useful life Customer In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating relationships Life of the relationship 7.4 years leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate Non-compete benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense contracts Life of the contract 3.0 years on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Computer software Useful life of the software 7.0-10.0 years INVENTORIES Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, with Inventories are stated at the lower of cost including an appropriate amortisation commencing once the assets are ready for their proportion of attributable overheads, supplier rebates and intended use.
discounts and net realisable value.
The cost formula used in measuring inventories is either a weighted average cost, or a First PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT In First Out basis, depending on the most appropriate method for Property, plant and equipment is shown at original cost to the each particular business.
Group less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred up to completion and Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective the estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment on a items where appropriate.
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS Current estimate Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated of useful life reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage Freehold buildings 50 years of completion of the contract activity at the reporting date.
Stage Leasehold buildings Period of lease of completion is normally measured by the proportion that contract Plant and machinery including motor vehicles 3-8 years costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative Freehold land is not depreciated.
of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims Residual values, which are based on market rates, are reassessed and incentive payments are recognised only to the extent that the annually.
amount can be measured reliably and its receipt is considered probable.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, with depreciation charged on the same basis as all other assets once Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated those assets are ready for their intended use.
reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
BORROWING COSTS Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction they are incurred.
or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use contract revenue, the total expected loss is recognised as an or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such a time as expense immediately.
the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income When contract costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
recognised losses exceed progress billings, the surplus is shown as amounts due from construction contract customers.
For contracts where progress billings exceed contract costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less recognised losses, the surplus is shown as amounts due to construction contract customers.
com I Stock code: SHI Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables are CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral When determining the fair value of financial liabilities, the expected part of the Groups cash management are included as a component future cash flows are discounted using an appropriate interest rate.
of cash andcash equivalents for the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the FINANCIAL ASSETS contractual arrangement.
Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or loans and receivables.
The classification DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS depends on the nature andpurpose of the financial asset and is The Group uses derivative financial instruments including interest determined at the time of initial recognition.
rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, cross currency swaps and commodity hedging instruments to hedge its exposure Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially toforeign currency exchange, interest rate and fuel price risks measured and subsequently stated at fair value, with any resultant arising from operational and financing activities.
In accordance gain or loss recognised inthe Consolidated Income Statement.
with its Treasury Policy, the Group does nothold orissue derivative When determining the fair value of financial assets, the expected financial instruments for trading purposes.
However derivative future cash flows are discounted using an appropriate discount rate.
financial instruments, or any that do not qualify for hedge Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then accounting, are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate are classified as non-current assets or non-current liabilities if the method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts remainingmaturity of thederivatives is more than 12 months and estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the they are not expected to be otherwise realised or settled within debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or carrying amount on initial recognition.
Financial assets including trade receivables are assessed for Derivative financial instruments are recognised immediately at fair indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis.
Subsequent to their initial recognition, derivative financial are impaired where there is objective evidence that as a result of instruments are then stated at their fairvalue.
The fair value of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the derivative financial instruments is derived from mark-to-market financial asset the estimated future cash flows have been negatively valuations obtained from the Groups relationship banks.
When there is objective evidence of impairment, Unless hedge accounting is achieved, the gain or loss on appropriate allowances are made for estimated irrecoverable remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately and is amounts based upon expected future cash flows discounted by included as part offinance income or finance costs, together with an appropriate interest rate where applicable.
The carrying amount other fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for within the column of the Consolidated Income Statement entitled all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where Other items.
the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered to be uncollectible it Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, no longer qualifies for of amounts previously written off are credited to the Consolidated hedge accounting, or when the Group revokes the hedging Income Statement.
At that time, anycumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is nolonger decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the recognised impairment loss is reversed through the Consolidated period.
Income Statement to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what At the inception of the hedge relationship the Group documents the the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, recognised.
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the FINANCIAL LIABILITIES inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair documents whether the hedging instruments that are used in value through profit or loss or other financial liabilities.
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows ofthe hedged items.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are initially measured and subsequently stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised inthe Consolidated Income Statement.
The net gain or loss recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability.
97 25165.04 27 March 2017 12:15 PM Proof 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies CONTINUED FAIR VALUE HEDGES PENSION SCHEMES For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the SIG operates six defined benefit pension schemes.
The Groups hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the net obligation in respect of these defined benefit pension schemes risk being hedged withthe corresponding entry in the Consolidated is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of Income Statement within Other items.
Fair value gains or losses future benefit thatemployees have earned in return for their service from remeasuring the derivative financial instruments are recognised in both current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted using immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement within Other an appropriate discount rate to determine itspresent value and the items.
fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
Where the benefits of the plan are improved, the portion of CASH FLOW HEDGES the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement, the variability in cash flows associated with a recognised asset or on a straight-line basis, over the average period until the benefits liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of vest.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised recognised immediately.
directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income ie equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in The full service cost of the pension schemes is charged to operating the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, profit.
Net finance costs on defined benefit pension schemes are the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Discretionary and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the contributions made by employees or third parties reduce service non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction costs upon payment of these contributions into the plan.
subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or Any actuarial gain or loss arising is charged through the financial liability, the associated gains or losses that were previously Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and is made up recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive of the difference between theexpected returns on assets and those Income are reclassified into the Consolidated Income Statement actually achieved, any changes in the actuarial assumptions for in the same periodor periods during which the asset acquired or demographics andanychanges in the financial assumptions used liability assumed affects the Consolidated Income Statement.
For cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of any gain or loss is The pension scheme deficit is recognised in full and presented recognised immediately as fair value gains or losses on derivative on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The associated financial instruments and is included as part of finance income deferred tax asset is recognised within non-current assets in the orfinance costs within the column of the Consolidated Income Consolidated Balance Sheet.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the HEDGE OF NET INVESTMENT IN FOREIGN Consolidated Income Statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits isthecontributions payable in the OPERATIONS year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and The portion of any gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge contributions actually paid are included within either accruals a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be orprepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
an effective hedge is recognised inthe Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective portion of any gain or DIVIDENDS loss isrecognised immediately as fair value gains or losses on Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors that have not been derivative financial instruments and is included as part of finance paid by the end of the year are not recognised in the Accounts income or finance costs within the column of the Consolidated until they have been approved by the Shareholders at the Annual Income Statement entitled Other items.
in the hedging and translation reserve are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement when foreign operations are disposed of.
PROPERTY PROVISIONS The Group makes provisions in respect of onerous leasehold property contracts and leasehold dilapidation commitments where it is probable that a transfer ofeconomic benefit will be required to settle a present obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
