Notes to the consolidated financial statements iii.
Accounting policies Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries Sky plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling in the United Kingdom UK and registered in England and Wales.
interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its acquisition and the non-controlling shareholders share of changes in subsidiaries together, the Group and its interests in associates equity since the date of the acquisition.
The interest of the non-controlling and jointly controlled entities.
shareholders in the acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of a Statement of compliance the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in assumed.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an  with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS by-acquisition basis.
In transactions with non-controlling parties that as adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and do not result in a change in control, the difference between the fair Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
value of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which In addition, the Group also complied with IFRS as issued by the the non-controlling interest is adjusted, is recognised in equity.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
d Goodwill b Basis of preparation Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the date The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going of transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by applying concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical the acquisition method of accounting.
Following this method, goodwill cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of certain financial is initially recognised on consolidation, representing the difference assets and liabilities as described in the accounting policies below.
between the fair value cost of the business combination and the fair The Group has adopted the new accounting pronouncements which value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent assets and became effective this year, none of which had a significant impact liabilities assumed.
on the Groups results or financial position.
In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2016, this date was 3 July the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP 2016, this being a 53 week year fiscal year 2015: 28 June 2015, 52 week accounting policies on the Transition Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, year.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included consolidated financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill accounting period as a year for reporting purposes.
The Group has written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, classified assets and liabilities as current when they are expected to be which is not reinstated and is not included in determining any realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the normal operating subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, c Basis of consolidation at least annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts i.
Subsidiaries of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved Any impairment identified is recognised immediately in the income where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The carrying amount of to direct the relevant activities that affect the Companys returns and goodwill in respect of associates and joint ventures is included in the exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
Subsidiaries are carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture.
included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company Goodwill is tested for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
from the date control of the subsidiary commences until the date that control ceases.
Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, i. Intangible assets are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Associates and joint ventures relating to the application of research knowledge to plan or design new Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, or substantially improved products for sale or use within the business but not control or joint control, over the relevant activities of the entity.
is recognised as an intangible asset from the point that the Group has Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have the intention and ability to generate probable future economic benefits joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the from the development expenditure, that the development is technically arrangement.
These consolidated financial statements include the feasible and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates Any other development expenditure is recognised in operating expense and joint ventures using the equity method, from the date that as incurred.
significant influence or joint control commences to the date that it ceases, based on present ownership interests and excluding the possible Other intangible assets which are acquired by the Group separately exercise of potential voting rights, less any impairment losses see or through a business combination are initially stated at cost or fair accounting policy i.
When the Groups interest in an associate or joint value, respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment venture has been reduced to nil because the Groups share of losses losses, other than those that are classified as held for sale, which are exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the Group only stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, or where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Sky plc 80 Financial statements The amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part of the available for use, and is charged to the income statement through Groups general borrowings, the interest cost to be capitalised is operating expense over the assets useful economic life in order calculated based upon the weighted average cost of borrowing to to match the expected pattern of consumption of future economic the Group excluding the interest on any borrowings specific to any benefits embodied in the asset.
Principal useful economic lives qualifying assets.
This is then applied to the expenditures on the asset.
used for this purpose are: All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period Trademarks 5 to 25 years straight-line to which they relate.
Internally generated 3 to 5 years straight-line f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities intangible assets The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Software development external 3 to 7 years straight-line and software licences Derivatives are held at fair value from the date on which a derivative contract is entered into.
Fair value is defined as the price that would Acquired customer contracts and related customer relationships be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly Relating to the acquired customer 15 years reducing balance basis transaction between market participants at the measurement date base in Germany and Austria under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Group calculates a separate credit valuation adjustment CVA or debit valuation adjustment DVA Relating to the acquired customer 15 years reducing balance basis for each derivative based upon the net position for each counterparty base in Italy relationship.
The Group calculates the CVA where it has a net asset Relating to acquired customer 3 to 12 years straight-line position using a quoted credit default swap curve for the counterparty bases in UK and Ireland and calculates the DVA where it has a net liability position using an industry proxy credit default swap curve for the Group.
The fair value Relating to other customer 8 to 25 years straight-line of derivative financial instruments is calculated by discounting future relationships in UK and Ireland cash flows with reference to the benchmark Libor curve, adjusted by the Other intangible assets 1 to 5 years straight-line relevant credit default swap curve.
Certain derivatives held by the Group which relate to highly probable forecast transactions hedged items, For acquired customer contracts and related customer relationships, which meet qualifying criteria under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: the assets are amortised on either a reducing balance basis or on Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, are designated as cash flow a straight-line basis depending on which more accurately reflects hedges.
Other derivatives which hedge changes in fair value of fixed the pattern of how future economic benefits will be consumed, rate financial instruments and meet the requirements of IAS 39 are as determined by the estimated customer retention profile.
designated as fair value hedges, and are subject to cash flow hedge If the assets useful economic life is judged to be indefinite or the asset accounting or fair value hedge accounting respectively.
Certain is not yet available for use, no amortisation is charged and an impairment borrowings and derivatives have been designated as net investment test is carried out at least annually.
Other intangible assets are tested hedges of the Groups foreign operations for movements in the spot for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
foreign exchange rate, see section r for further details.
Certain other derivatives held by the Group do not meet the qualifying criteria for ii.
Property, plant and equipment recognition for accounting purposes as hedges, despite this being Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any their economic function.
Changes in the fair values of these derivatives impairment losses, see accounting policy i, other than those items that are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group does are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
When an item of PPE comprises major components having different useful economic lives, the components i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges cash flow hedging instruments are initially recognised Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations in the hedging reserve.
In circumstances in which the derivative used similar to those attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE see is a currency option, only changes in the intrinsic value of the option accounting policy n. are designated under the cash flow hedging relationship, with all The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in operating other movements being recorded immediately in the income statement.
expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
Land and Amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are subsequently assets that are not yet available for use are not depreciated.
Principal recognised in the income statement in the periods in which the useful economic lives used for this purpose are: related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
Freehold buildings 25 to 40 years At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed through a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3 to 20 years instrument and the underlying hedged item.
The ongoing effectiveness Set-top boxes and routers 5 to 7 years of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed using the dollar-offset approach, with the expected cash flows of hedging instruments Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the being compared to the expected cash flows of the hedged items.
leasehold improvements useful economic life This assessment is used to demonstrate that each hedge relationship Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction is expected to be highly effective on inception, has been highly effective or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take in the period and is expected to continue to be highly effective in future a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, periods.
The measurement of hedge ineffectiveness for the Groups are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the assets are hedging instruments is calculated using the hypothetical derivative substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
method, with the fair values of the hedging instruments being compared to those of the hypothetical derivative that would result in the designated cash flow hedge achieving perfect hedge effectiveness.
The excess of the cumulative change in the fair value of the actual hedging instrument compared to that of the hypothetical derivative is deemed to be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised in the income statement.
Annual Report 2016 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The cost of television programme inventories is recognised in the 1.
Accounting policies continued operating expense line of the income statement, over the period the The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness, Group utilises and consumes the programming rights, applying linearin accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has effectiveness broadcast and time-based methods of amortisation depending on the outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting type of programme right, taking into account the circumstances primarily is suspended.
These circumstances may change or evolve over time and as such, the Group regularly reviews and updates the method used When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is to recognise programming expense.
exercised, or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedging reserve Sports the majority or all of the cost is recognised in the income at that time remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised when the statement on the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement, seasons or competitions, such rights are recognised principally on provided that the underlying transaction is still expected to occur.
When a straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
Where a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative the rights are packaged, sold or consumed over the off-season, gain or loss that was reported in the hedging reserve is immediately the Group allocates an appropriate portion of the total rights value recognised in the income statement and all future changes in the fair to the off-season period, and that cost is recognised on a straight-line value of the cash flow hedging instruments are immediately recognised basis over the off-season period.
News the cost is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Derivatives that qualify for fair value hedge accounting Movies the cost is recognised in the income statement on a straightThe Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges as line basis over the period for which the broadcast rights are licensed.
Any changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying General entertainment the cost relating to acquired, commissioned values of the underlying hedged items are adjusted for the change in and produced rights are recognised in the income statement the fair value of the hedged risks, with the gains or losses recognised principally based on the expected value of each planned broadcast immediately in the income statement, offsetting the fair value on the Groups linear channels and the time period over which the movement on the derivative.
non-linear programme rights are expected to be utilised.
The cost attributable or apportioned to non-linear on demand rights are Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of broadcast rights.
of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying hedged item, including the likelihood of default by the derivative The Group regularly reviews its programming rights for impairment.
The retrospective effectiveness of the Groups fair Where programme broadcast rights are surplus to the Groups value hedges is calculated quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset requirements, and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of the rights, approach, with movements in the fair value of the hedged item being or where the programming will not be broadcast for any other reason, a compared to movements in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
write-down to the income statement is made.
Any reversals of inventory write-downs are recognised as reductions in operating expense.
The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and any relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed ii.
Programme distribution rights to be ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended.
Programme distribution rights are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, net of the accumulated expense charged to the income statement to date.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host The cost of the programme distribution rights is recognised in operating contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and expense in line with the profile of expected revenue generation.
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts iii.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment held for sale to customers gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reflects the are carried on the balance sheet at fair value from the inception of the value that the business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and host contract.
Changes in fair value are recognised within the income related equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised statement during the period in which they arise.
through the operating expense line of the income statement.
Any g Inventories subsidy is expensed on enablement, which is the process of activating i.
Acquired and commissioned television the viewing card during installation, so as to enable a viewer to view programme rights for broadcast encrypted broadcast services, and effectively represents the completion Programme inventories for broadcast are stated at the lower of cost of the installation process for new customers.
The amount recognised and net realisable value NRV, including, where applicable, estimated in the income statement is determined on a weighted average cost subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated expense basis, in accordance with IAS 2 Inventory.
charged to the income statement to date.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale Such programming rights are included as inventories when the legally Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at enforceable licence period commences and all of the following conditions the lower of cost and NRV.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and have been met: a the cost of each programme is known or reasonably goods held for resale is recognised through the operating expense line determinable: b the programme material has been accepted by of the income statement on a first-in-first-out basis.
the Group in accordance with the conditions of the rights, and c the programme is available for its first showing.
Prior to being included in inventories, the programming rights are classified as television programme rights not yet available for transmission and not recorded as inventories on the Groups balance sheet and are instead disclosed as contractual commitments see note 28.
Payments made in advance of the legal right to broadcast the programmes are treated as prepayments.
Sky plc 82 Financial statements h Financial assets and liabilities vi.
Borrowings Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value plus Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue any directly attributable transaction costs.
At each balance sheet date, costs.
Finance charges, including any premium payable on settlement the Group assesses whether there is any objective evidence that any or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the are added to the carrying amount of the underlying instrument to which contractual provisions of the financial asset or liability.
Financial assets they relate, to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which are derecognised from the balance sheet when the Groups contractual they arise.
rights to the cash flows expire or the Group transfers substantially i Impairment all the risks and rewards of the financial asset.
Financial liabilities are At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment derecognised from the Groups balance sheet when the obligation of Assets, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
excluding inventories see accounting policy g, non-current assets i. Available-for-sale investments classified as held for sale, financial assets see accounting policy h and Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period are deferred taxation see accounting policy o to determine whether there is classified as available-for-sale investments.
They are carried at fair any indication that any of those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
value, where this can be reliably measured, with movements in fair An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
Where the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is carried at cost.
An impairment of an investment in a joint venture Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as available-foror associate is recognised within the share of profit from joint ventures sale investments are recognised in the income statement and are not and associates.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price, reversible through the income statement unless or until the investment defined as the fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.
In assessing is disposed of, and are determined with reference to the closing market value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their share price at the balance sheet date.
Any subsequent increase in present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market the fair value of the available-for-sale investment above the impaired assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset.
value will be recognised within the available-for-sale reserve.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered principally through recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to sale rather than continuing use, in which case they are included within reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to those units, current assets.
On disposal, the difference between the carrying amount and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain on a pro rata basis.
or loss that had previously been recognised directly in reserves is recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit will be reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the ii.
Trade and other receivables recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised and Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does fixed or determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate is not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, applicable, are measured at the original invoice amount, if the effect of net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been discounting is immaterial.
Where discounting is material, trade and other recognised.
Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
An allowance account is maintained to reduce the carrying value j Provisions of trade and other receivables for impairment losses identified from Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present legal objective evidence, with movements in the allowance account, either or constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic benefits as a from increased impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses, result of past events where a reliable estimate is available.
The amounts being recognised in the income statement.
recognised represent the Groups best estimate of the transfer of iii.
Cash and cash equivalents benefits that will be required to settle the obligation as of the balance Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, deposits sheet date.
Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates of three months money is material using a pre-tax market rate adjusted for risks specific or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable to the liability.
on demand and which form an integral part of the Groups cash k ESOP reserve management are also included as a component of cash and cash Where the Groups ESOP purchases the Companys own equity shares, equivalents where offset conditions are met.
the cost of those shares, including any attributable transaction costs, iv.
Short-term deposits is presented within the ESOP reserve as a deduction in shareholders This includes short-term deposits which have maturity dates of more equity in the consolidated financial statements.
than three months from inception.
These deposits are initially recognised at fair value, and then carried at amortised cost through the income statement less any allowance for impairment losses.
v. Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade and other payables with no stated interest rate are measured at the original invoice amount if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
Annual Report 2016 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 1.
Accounting policies continued employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as l Revenue recognition an expense in the income statement, with a corresponding increase in Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions between equity.
The fair values of these payments are measured at the dates Group companies, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit from of grant using option-pricing models, taking into account the terms the Groups operating activities.
The Groups main sources of revenue are and conditions upon which the awards are granted.
The fair value recognised as follows: is recognised over the period during which employees become Subscription revenue includes revenue from residential and unconditionally entitled to the awards, subject to the Groups estimate commercial subscribers to TV and communication products, including of the number of awards which will be forfeited, either due to employees over-the-top OTT subscriptions, and income from set-top box sales leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market-based and installation, service calls and warranties.
Revenue is recognised, performance conditions not being met.
Where an award has marketnet of any discount given, as the goods or services are provided.
based performance conditions, the fair value of the award is adjusted for the probability of achieving these via the option pricing model.
The total Transactional revenue includes the purchase of physical content, amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is adjusted OTT passes, pay per view and buy to keep content by residential to reflect the actual number of awards that vest, except where forfeiture and commercial customers.
Transactional revenue is recognised, net is due to the failure to meet market-based performance measures.
of any discount given, when the relevant goods or service are provided.
In the event of a cancellation, whether by the Group or by a participating Programme and channel sales revenue includes revenue from the sale employee, the compensation expense that would have been recognised of channels and programmes across other platforms and over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised immediately in internationally.
Channel sales revenue is recognised as the services are the income statement.
provided on a wholesale basis to cable and other retailers and is based n Leases on the number of subscribers taking the Sky channels, as reported Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease to the Group by the cable and other retailers, and the applicable transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of rate card or contract.
Programme sales revenue is earned from the the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
production of programming and the distribution of programming rights.
Production revenue is recognised on a stage of completion Sub-lease income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis and distribution revenue is recognised when the contract is basis over the term of the lease.
signed and the content is available for exploitation.
The stage of When the Group is a lessee completion is determined by comparing the proportion of costs Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group incurred to date to the total estimated cost of the transaction.
at their fair value on the date of acquisition, or if lower, at the present Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising is value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky acts the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
as an agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised on a net Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and commission basis.
reductions to the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Other revenue principally includes income from technical platform services and the provision of network services.
Other revenue is The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the income recognised, net of any discount given, when the relevant goods statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits or service are provided.
received and receivable as incentives to enter into operating leases are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service and When the Group is a lessor a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total consideration from Assets which are provided under operating lease arrangements are the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative recognised as assets within property, plant and equipment.
The fair value of each individual element is determined remain in the economic ownership of the Group for the duration of using vendor specific or third-party evidence.
The amount of revenue the the lease, and are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Group recognises for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
o Taxation, including deferred taxation m Employee benefits The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised in the enacted at the balance sheet date.
income statement as the employees services are rendered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance Where the Group provides pensions to eligible employees through sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and statement in the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
the Group to the schemes in exchange for employee services rendered Temporary differences arising from goodwill and, except in a business in that year.
The assets of the schemes are held independently of combination, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect the Group.
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit are not provided for.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising Liabilities in relation to employee obligations which are economically on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint similar to defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for as such ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the under IAS 19. temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference Termination benefits are recognised as a liability at the earlier of when will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination benefit provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement and when the Group recognises any related restructuring costs, such of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have termination being before the normal retirement date or as the result been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
of an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Sky plc 84 Financial statements The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance s Reportable segments sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that is probable to be IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segment information presented realised based on the weight of all available evidence.
Deferred tax is in the financial statements to be that which is used internally by the calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of the the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets and business and decide how to allocate resources.
The Group has identified liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the the Board of Directors as its chief operating decision maker and the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited segment information presented in the financial statements is consistent directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also included within with the internal reporting reviewed by the Board.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a t Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current to existing standards that are not yet effective tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, amendments taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and interpretations to existing standards, which have been published and liabilities on a net basis.
but are only effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July p Distributions to equity shareholders 2016.
These new pronouncements are listed below.
The Directors are Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of these standards, in which they are declared.
amendments and interpretations in future periods.
The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for cancellation Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests share buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
In addition, the in Joint Operations effective 1 January 2016 nominal cost of shares repurchased is deducted from share capital and Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative effective 1 January 2016 a matching credit is recorded in the capital redemption reserve.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable q Earnings per share Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation effective 1 January 2016 Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year Annual Improvements 20122014 cycle effective 1 July 2016 attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided by Amendments to IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year Applying the Consolidated Exception effective 1 January 2016 excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by and held in the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative effective 1 January 2017 share awards.
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the Unrealised Losses effective 1 January 2017 year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January by the weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate 2018 basic earnings, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares IFRS 15 requires the identification of deliverables in contracts with resulting from share options where the inclusion of these would not customers that qualify as performance obligations.
price receivable from customers must be allocated between the r Foreign currency translation Groups performance obligations under contracts on a relative Trading activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the stand-alone selling price basis.
functional currency of the entity at applicable monthly exchange rates.
Where goods or services sold as part of a bundle are concluded to Monetary assets, liabilities and commitments denominated in foreign be distinct performance obligations, revenue allocated to such goods currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of is recognised when control of the goods passes to the customer or exchange at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated as the service is delivered.
in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency of IFRS 15 requires that certain costs incurred in obtaining and fulfilling the entity at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the initial customer contracts be deferred on the balance sheet and amortised transaction.
Gains and losses from the retranslation of monetary as revenue is recognised under the related contract.
assets and liabilities are included net in profit for the year.
Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Groups presentational currency is pounds sterling.
Assets and effective 1 January 2018 liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments effective 1 January are translated at the applicable monthly average exchange rates.
Any 2018 exchange differences arising are classified as equity within the foreign IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and The standard is expected to impact the classification and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated accordingly.
Gains measurement of financial instruments and is expected to require and losses accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve certain additional disclosures.
are included in the income statement when the foreign operation IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 is disposed of.
IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and will primarily change lease Gains and losses on those instruments designated as hedges of the net accounting for lessees: lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is expected investments in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent to be similar to lease accounting under IAS 17. that the hedging relationship is effective: these amounts are recognised Where a contract meets IFRS 16s definition of a lease and where in the statement of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating the Group acts as a lessee, lease agreements will give rise to the to hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income recognition of a non-current asset representing the right to use statement for the period.
the leased item and a loan obligation for future lease payables.
Lease costs will be recognised in the form of depreciation of the right to use asset and interest on the lease liability.
not yet endorsed for use in the EU Annual Report 2016 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The recognition of the deferred tax asset is contingent on the Groups 1.
Accounting policies continued estimation of the future taxable income of Sky Deutschland.
This u Critical accounting policies and estimation is supported by the Groups latest available five-year forecast, the use of judgement and estimates which was considered by the Companys Board of Directors, and Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group.
extrapolated beyond the forecast period as disclosed in note 12.
Given An accounting policy is considered to be critical if, in the Directors the nature of Sky Deutschlands subscription-based business model, judgement, its selection or application materially affects the Groups management has sufficient confidence in its ability to execute and financial position or results.
The application of the Groups accounting realise these plans.
policies also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the Groups financial position or results.
A consistent set of forecasts is used as the basis for assessing the carrying value of deferred tax assets with that used in the Groups annual Below is a summary of the Groups critical accounting policies and details impairment review of goodwill associated with Sky Deutschland, as of the key areas of judgement and estimates that are exercised in their described in note 1 and note 12. application.
All areas described below require the use of judgement: taxation ii and goodwill impairment reviews iii also require the use of iii.
Acquisition accounting and goodwill see note 12 estimates which could significantly affect the Groups financial position Judgement is required in determining the fair value of identifiable assets, or results.
liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed in a business combination and the fair value of the consideration payable.
Revenue see note 2 the fair values involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to be including expectations about future cash flows, discount rates and the recognised requires judgement.
This may involve estimating the fair value lives of assets following purchase.
In order to determine the fair value of consideration before it is received.
When the Group sells a set-top box, of programming rights acquired, specifically rights partially consumed installation or service and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the or part way through licence periods, we assess material contracts total consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element and licences to determine whether the contracts concerned would be based on its relative fair value.
The fair value of each individual element is considered favourable or unfavourable by a market participant.
For partly determined using vendor specific or third-party evidence.
The amount of consumed content, the Groups existing accounting policy is then applied.
revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
Judgement is required in evaluating whether any impairment loss has arisen against the carrying amount of goodwill.
Taxation, including deferred taxation see notes 9 and 17 calculation of the recoverable amount of cash generating units to which The Groups total tax charge is the sum of the current and deferred tax the goodwill is associated.
Such a calculation may involve estimates of charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily the net present value of future forecast cash flows and selecting an involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain appropriate discount rate.
Alternatively, it may involve a calculation items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution of the estimated fair value less costs to sell of the applicable cash has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, generating unit.
Judgement is required in identifying the cash generating units to which Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make the goodwill is associated for the purposes of goodwill impairment judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and exposures.
Identification of cash generating units involves an assessment Amounts provided are based on managements interpretation of of whether assets or groups of assets generate cash flows that are applicable tax law and the likelihood of settlement and include any largely independent of other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is liability for interest and penalties.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless then allocated to each identified cash generating unit that is expected it is probable that the tax positions will be sustained.
Once considered to to benefit from the synergies of the business combinations from which be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess goodwill has arisen.
The carrying value of the Groups goodwill balance whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the is disclosed in note 12, allocated by cash generating unit.
benefit on the basis of the likely resolution of the issue through negotiation and or litigation.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment see notes 13 and 14 The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in The assessment of the useful economic lives and the method of respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best estimation and amortising these assets requires judgement.
Depreciation and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty amortisation are charged to the income statement based on the useful regarding the outcome of these items means the eventual resolution economic life selected, which requires an estimation of the period and could differ from the provision and in such event the Group would be profile over which the Group expects to consume the future economic required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period which could have benefits embodied in the assets.
The Group reviews its useful economic a material impact on the Groups profit and loss and or cash position.
lives on at least an annual basis.
The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is the Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has any assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or indication of impairment also requires judgement.
If an indication of settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the impairment is identified, further judgement is required to assess whether balance sheet date.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is the carrying amount can be supported by the net present value of future probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which cash flows forecast to be derived from the asset.
This forecast involves any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
cash flow projections and selecting the appropriate discount rate.
Specifically, the Group has a gross deferred tax asset relating to unused Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial tax losses in Sky Deutschland of 681 million 2015: 553 million, which is capitalisation requires judgement.
This requires a determination of recognised net of the deferred tax liabilities principally arising from the whether the assets will result in future benefits to the Group.
In fair value of acquired customer contracts in Sky Deutschland resulting particular, internally generated intangible assets must be assessed in a net deferred tax asset for Sky Deutschland of 243 million 2015: during the development phase to identify whether the Group has the 147 million, as described in note 17. ability and intention to complete the development successfully.
Sky plc 86 Financial statements v. Programming inventory for broadcast see note 18 The key area of accounting for programming inventory for broadcast that requires judgement is the assessment of the appropriate profile over which to amortise general entertainment programming.
This assessment requires the Group to form an expectation of: the number of times a programme will be broadcast on the Groups linear channels, and the time period over which the programme is expected to be utilised: the relative value associated with each broadcast: and the relative value associated with linear channel and non-linear programme rights.
Linear channel rights refer to the rights to broadcast a programme on the Groups linear broadcast channels and non-linear rights refer to the rights to make a programme available on the Groups on demand services.
In order to perform this assessment, the Group considers the following factors: The frequency with which, and the time period over which, the programme is expected to be utilised on the Groups linear channels and non-linear services.
This is usually based on a combination of the actual period specified in the contract for the programme rights, an initial expectation of when airings will be scheduled and the alternative programming available to the Group within this period.
Linear rights are consumed as and when the programmes are broadcast: non-linear rights are consumed over the period the programme is made available.
Expectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely to achieve for each individual broadcast on the Groups linear channels over the contractual broadcast period.
The number of viewers per broadcast directly influences advertising revenue for channels, although this consideration is partly influenced by the Groups assessment of the potential impact of the publicly available information on its competitors scheduling intentions against planned broadcasts.
The potential benefits associated with utilising programming.
Certain high-profile or high-quality programming titles have additional value to the Group, as they attract new TV customers and encourage retention of existing TV customers.
As such, these programmes are able to retain more value throughout their licence period than would be indicated when considering the expected customer viewing and consumption numbers alone.
The relative value associated with linear channel and non-linear rights is assessed based on the manner in which the Group expects to utilise the programming rights and the relative value perceived by customers for the Groups channels and services.
Those relative values may also differ based on the type and genre of programme.
Such values are reviewed by the Group against current and expected future trends in customer viewing behaviour for the Groups programming and channels.
The value apportioned to non-linear rights in addition to any separately acquired non-linear rights is amortised on a straightline basis over the period of the broadcast rights, as the Group considers this to be the profile most closely aligned to its consumption of those rights.
A broadcast-based amortisation model is not relevant or appropriate for this type of right as the Group makes the programmes available for a period of time rather than for a specified number of broadcasts.
Annual Report 2016 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Operating Segments The Group has three reportable segments that are defined by geographic area to reflect how the Groups operations are monitored and managed.
The reportable segments presented reflect the Groups management and reporting structure as viewed by the Board of Directors, which is considered to be the Groups chief operating decision maker.
Reportable segment Description UK and Ireland The activities and operations of the pay TV, home communications and adjacent businesses in the UK and Ireland Germany and Austria The activities and operations of the pay TV and adjacent businesses in Germany and Austria Italy The activities and operations of the pay TV and adjacent businesses in Italy Segmental income statement for the year ended 30 June 2016 Adjusting UK & Germany & Items and Statutory Ireland Austria Italy Eliminations Group Total m m m m m Continuing Operations Subscription 7,006 1,379 1,800 10,185 Transactional 146 18 33 197 Programme and Channel Sales 610 21 12 1 642 Advertising 524 52 202 778 Other 88 42 36 3 163 Revenue 8,374 1,512 2,083 4 11,965 Inter-segment revenue 3 1 4 Revenue from external customers 8,371 1,512 2,082 11,965 Programming 3,032 881 1,250 54 5,217 Direct network costs 939 939 Sales, general and administration 2,899 627 783 523 4,832 Operating expense 6,870 1,508 2,033 577 10,988 EBITDA 1,910 82 186 208 1,970 Depreciation and amortisation 406 78 136 373 993 Operating profit 1,504 4 50 581 977 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 2 Investment income 17 Finance costs 244 Profit before tax 752 Sky plc 88 Financial statements Segmental income statement for the year ended 30 June 2015 Results for full year Germany & Austria, Adjusting Italy UK & Germany & Items and preStatutory acquisition Group Total Ireland Austria Italy Eliminations m m m m m m Continuing Operations Subscription 6,596 1,256 1,845 1,179 8,518 Transactional 120 18 35 20 153 Programme and Channel Sales 515 20 16 1 9 541 Advertising 510 44 162 67 649 Other 95 39 28 9 25 128 Revenue 7,836 1,377 2,086 10 1,300 9,989 Inter-segment revenue 16 10 6 Revenue from external customers 7,820 1,377 2,086 1,294 9,989 Programming 2,865 764 1,258 9 724 4,172 Direct network costs 840 840 Sales, general and administration 2,781 624 767 377 544 4,005 Operating expense 6,486 1,388 2,025 386 1,268 9,017 EBITDA 1,740 74 216 163 129 1,738 Depreciation and amortisation 390 85 155 233 97 766 Operating profit loss 1,350 11 61 396 32 972 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 28 Investment income 8 Finance costs 283 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments 492 Profit on disposal of associate 299 Profit before tax 1,516 Results for each segment are presented on an adjusted basis.
A reconciliation of statutory to adjusted profit is shown in note 10 which also includes a description of the adjusting items.
Transactions between segments are recorded based on estimated market prices.
Revenue from Programme and Channel Sales was previously labelled Wholesale and Syndication.
Revenue of 7,908 million 2015: 7,387 million arises from goods and services provided to the UK and revenue of 4,057 million 2015: 2,602 million arises from services provided to other countries.
Non-current assets located in the UK were 10,686 million 2015: 9,562 million and non-current assets located outside the UK were 755 million 2015: 609 million.
Included within operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 2016 are: Costs of 142 million 2015: 105 million relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes.
These costs have been recognised as follows: 28 million 2015: 10 million within Programming 114 million 2015: 95 million within Sales, general and administration SG&A Costs of 84 million 2015: 10 million relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group.
These costs have been recognised as follows: 18 million 2015: nil within Programming 66 million 2015: 10 million within SG&A Costs of 4 million 2015: 50 million relating to advisory and transaction fees incurred on the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia recognised within SG&A.
Costs of 343 million 2015: 231 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangible assets recognised within SG&A.
Costs of 8 million 2015: nil relating to the remeasurement of derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness within Programming.
For the period between the date of purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia and 30 June 2015, Sky Deutschland contributed a 25 million loss to the Groups profit after tax, and Sky Italia contributed a 13 million profit to the Groups profit after tax.
Annual Report 2016 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Discontinued operations On 19 March 2015, the Group completed the sale of a controlling stake in its online betting and gaming business, Sky Betting & Gaming Sky Bet, to funds advised by CVC Capital Partners and members of the Sky Bet management team.
Sky has retained an equity stake of 20% post completion in Sky Bet.
Sky Bet represented a separate major line of business for the Group.
As a result its operations have been treated as discontinued for the year ended 30 June 2015.
A single amount is shown on the face of the consolidated income statement comprising the post-tax result of discontinued operations and the post-tax profit recognised on the disposal of the discontinued operation.
A pre-tax profit of 600 million arose on the disposal of Sky Bet, being the net proceeds of disposal less the carrying amount of Sky Bets net liabilities and attributable goodwill.
The results of discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows: 2015 1 To 19 March m Revenue 158 Operating expense 128 Operating profit 30 Profit on disposal 600 Profit before tax 630 2 Attributable tax expense 10 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 620 1 Results for the year ended 30 June 2015 include the results of discontinued operations up to the date of disposal 19 March 2015.
2 Attributable tax expense comprises 9 million in respect of operating activities and 1 million arising as a result of the disposal.
The net liabilities of Sky Bet at the date of disposal were: 19 March 2015 m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 9 Deferred tax assets 1 10 Current assets Trade and other receivables 5 Cash and cash equivalents 30 35 Total assets 45 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 58 Provisions 6 64 Total liabilities 64 Net liabilities 19 Total consideration 730 Net liabilities disposed 19 Attributable goodwill 149 Profit on disposal 600 The portion of the profit on disposal relating to measuring the retained 20% investment at its fair value is set out below: 19 March 2015 m Fair value of retained investment 86 Net liabilities disposed relating to retained investment 4 Attributable goodwill relating to retained investment 30 Profit attributable to remeasuring retained equity stake 60 Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 598 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 30 Net cash inflow arising on disposal 568 There were no discontinued operations in the current year.
Investment income and finance costs 2016 2015 m m Investment income Interest on cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits 9 8 Interest on other loans and receivables 8 17 8 2016 2015 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges Facility related costs 6 44 Guaranteed Notes see note 22 224 214 Finance lease interest 8 7 238 265 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 12 16 Remeasurement of other derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 6 3 Gain arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 1 7 Loss arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 1 6 6 18 244 283 Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 2.8% 2015: 3.1% to expenditure on such assets.
The amount capitalised in the current year amounted to 14 million 2015: 9 million.
Tax relief in the current year on capitalised interest totals 1.5 million 2015: 0.4 million.
In the prior year finance costs included 57 million incurred in connection with 6.6 billion of firm underwritten debt facilities and other associated transaction costs relating to the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
These facilities including the previous revolving credit facility RCF were repaid or cancelled in the prior year with the exception of a 1 billion RCF which remains undrawn.
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of 6.4% in ITV plc, consisting of 259,820,065 ITV shares for an aggregate consideration of 481 million.
A profit of 429 million was realised on disposal, being the excess of the consideration above the previously written-down value of the shares for accounting purposes 52 million.
On 5 November 2014, the Group sold a further shareholding of 0.8% in ITV plc, consisting of 31,864,665 ITV shares for an aggregate consideration of 65 million.
A profit of 58 million was realised on disposal, being the excess of the consideration above the previously written-down value of the shares for accounting purposes 7 million.
The Group recognised a gain of 5 million as a result of measuring to fair value its equity interest in Sky Deutschland held prior to the acquisition.
Profit on disposal of associate On 12 November 2014, the Group transferred a shareholding of 21% in NGC Network International LLC and a shareholding of 21% in NGC Network Latin America LLC to 21st Century Fox, Inc. 21st Century Fox for an aggregate consideration of 410 million as part of the purchase of Sky Italia.
A profit of 299 million was realised on disposal.
Profit before taxation Profit before taxation is stated after charging: 2016 2015 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 4,088 3,331 Depreciation, impairment and losses profits on disposals of property, plant and equipment 356 297 Amortisation, impairment and losses profits on disposals of intangible assets 637 469 Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 95 70 Foreign exchange Foreign exchange gains recognised in the income statement during the year amounted to 14 million 2015: gains of 14 million.
Annual Report 2016 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Profit before taxation continued Audit fees An analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 2.4 2.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.5 0.3 Total audit fees 2.9 2.3 Audit-related services 0.3 0.2 Taxation services 0.8 1.5 Other assurance services 0.3 0.8 Other advisory services 6.4 11.4 Transaction services 1.9 Total non-audit fees 7.8 15.8 Other assurance services principally relate to The Bigger Picture assurance and financing comfort procedures.
Deloitte Germany and Deloitte Italy provided technology consulting and advisory services to Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia during the year.
As described in the Report of the Audit Committee, these services were reviewed regularly throughout the year in order to ensure the continued independence of Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Group.
The total fees for these services was 6.4 million 2015: 11.4 million.
The total fees for non-audit services provided to Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the full prior year were 15.7 million and the table above includes those services provided to Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia by Deloitte since 12 November 2014.
Total audit fees payable to the component auditors of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia for the full prior year were 1.1 million.
Employee benefits and key management compensation a Group employee benefits 2016 2015 m m Wages and salaries 1,190 1,040 Social security costs 184 159 1 Costs of employee share option schemes 100 96 2 Contributions to the Groups pension schemes 40 39 1,514 1,334 1 100 million relates to equity-settled share-based payments 2015: 91 million and nil relates to cash-settled share-based payments 2015: 5 million.
2 The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes.
The pension charge for the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes during the year.
The amount payable to the schemes by the Group at 30 June 2016 was 6 million 2015: 5 million.
The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons including temporary employees employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2016 2015 Number Number Channels and services 5,033 5,089 Customer service, sales and marketing 15,712 15,487 Transmission and technology 4,686 4,156 Management and administration 2,510 2,328 27,941 27,060 There are approximately 959 2015: 921 temporary staff included within the average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group.
b Key management compensation see note 30d 2016 2015 m m Short-term employee benefits 6 6 Share-based payments 9 8 15 14 Post-employment benefits were less than 1 million 2015: less than 1 million.
The amounts disclosed for key management compensation are included within the disclosures in note 8 a. Sky plc 92 Financial statements 9.
Taxation a Taxation recognised in the income statement 2016 2015 m m Current tax expense Current year UK 224 229 Adjustment in respect of prior years UK 29 39 Current year Overseas 19 62 Total current tax charge 214 252 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences UK 5 21 Adjustment in respect of prior years UK 9 21 Origination and reversal of temporary differences Overseas 130 67 Adjustment in respect of prior years Overseas 9 1 Total deferred tax credit 125 68 Taxation 89 184 b Taxation recognised directly in equity 2016 2015 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payments 21 2 Deferred tax charge credit relating to share-based payments 21 15 Deferred tax charge relating to cash flow hedges 46 20 46 3 c Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2015: lower than the expense that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation tax in the UK 20.0% applied to profit before tax.
The applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK corporation tax for the year was 20.0% 2015: 20.75%.
The differences are explained below: 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations: 752 1,516 Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.0% 2015: 20.75% 150 315 Effects of: Different statutory tax rates of overseas jurisdictions 29 12 Disposal of Group investments 2 125 Net effect of other non-taxable non-deductible items 26 28 Effect of tax rate changes 27 3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 29 19 Taxation 89 184 10.
Earnings per share The weighted average number of shares for the year was: 2016 2015 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,719 1,706 ESOP trust ordinary shares 12 16 Basic shares 1,707 1,690 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 14 21 Diluted shares 1,721 1,711 There are no share options 2015: none which could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future but which have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive in the year.
Annual Report 2016 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Earnings per share continued Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of shares for the year.
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, management have chosen to present an adjusted profit for the year which excludes items that may distort comparability.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
2016 2015 m m Profit from continuing operations 663 1,332 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 3 5 Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 666 1,337 Profit from discontinued operations 620 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 666 1,957 2016 2015 m m Reconciliation from profit from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company to adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company Profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 666 1,337 Costs relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes 142 105 Costs relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group 84 10 Advisory and transaction fees and finance costs incurred on the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia 4 107 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 347 228 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments see note 5 492 Profit on disposal of associate see note 6 299 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness 14 18 Tax adjusting items and the tax effect of above items 180 67 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 1,077 947 2016 2015 pence pence Earnings per share from profit for the year Basic Continuing operations 39.0p 79.1p Discontinued operations 36.7p Total 39.0p 115.8p Diluted Continuing operations 38.7p 78.2p Discontinued operations 36.2p Total 38.7p 114.4p Adjusted earnings per share from adjusted profit for the year Basic 63.1p 56.0p Diluted 62.6p 55.3p 11.
Dividends 2016 2015 m m Dividends declared and paid during the year 2014 Final dividend paid: 20.00p per ordinary share 340 2015 Interim dividend paid: 12.30p per ordinary share 209 2015 Final dividend paid: 20.50p per ordinary share 350 2016 Interim dividend paid: 12.55p per ordinary share 214 564 549 The 2016 final dividend proposed is 20.95 pence per ordinary share being 358 million.
The dividend was not declared at the balance sheet date and is therefore not recognised as a liability as at 30 June 2016.
Dividends are paid between Group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, inter alia, the provisions of the companies articles of association and the Companies Act 2006.
The ESOP has waived its rights to dividends.
Goodwill m Carrying value At 1 July 2014 1,019 Purchase of Sky Deutschland 2,848 Purchase of Sky Italia 752 Disposal of Sky Bet 149 Foreign exchange movements 344 Other 34 At 30 June 2015 4,160 Foreign exchange movements 546 Other 7 At 30 June 2016 4,713 Goodwill has principally arisen from the Groups purchases of Sky Deutschland, Sky Italia, British Interactive Broadcasting BiB, Easynets UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Medias content activities, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
Goodwill, allocated by cash generating unit, is analysed as follows: 2016 2015 m m 1 UK & Ireland 911 904 2 Germany & Austria 3,018 2,576 3 Italy 784 680 4,713 4,160 Impairment reviews were performed on these goodwill balances at 30 June 2016, which did not indicate impairment.
Recoverable amounts for each of the cash generating units were calculated on the basis of value in use, using cash flows calculated for the next five years as forecast by management.
A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied to all units in order to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond this period 2015: 3%.
The cash flows of the UK and Ireland CGU were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8% 2015: 8%, the cash flows of the Germany and Austria CGU were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 7% 2015: 7% and the cash flows of the Italy CGU were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 9% 2015: 8%.
In determining the applicable discount rate, management applied judgement in respect of several factors, which included, inter alia: assessing the risk attached to future cash flows and making reference to the capital asset pricing model the CAPM.
Management gave consideration to the selection of appropriate inputs to the CAPM, which included the risk free rate, the equity risk premium and a measure of systematic risk.
Management also considered capital structure and an appropriate cost of debt in arriving at the discount rate.
The key assumptions, on which the forecast five-year cash flows of each unit were based, include the number of gross customer additions, the rate of churn, the average revenue per user, levels of programming spend, acquisition costs per customer and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast activities.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the entertainment and communications industry in each territory.
UK and Ireland The UK and Ireland unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of BiB, Easynets UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Medias content activities, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
The UK and Ireland unit includes intangibles with indefinite lives of 31 million 2015: 25 million.
Germany and Austria The Germany and Austria unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Sky Deutschland.
Italy The Italy unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Sky Italia.
The Italy unit includes intangibles with indefinite lives of 546 million 2015: 457 million.
Annual Report 2016 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Intangible assets Internally generated Acquired Software Customer intangible intangible Internally development contracts assets assets generated external and related Other not yet not yet intangible and software customer intangible available available 1 Trademarks assets licences relationships assets for use for use Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2014 18 498 558 203 338 71 86 1,772 Additions from business combinations 457 105 3,070 28 21 3,681 Additions 5 76 75 60 111 35 362 Disposals 4 18 145 1 168 Transfers 60 22 2 60 24 Foreign exchange movements 12 294 1 2 309 At 30 June 2015 476 616 603 2,979 426 122 116 5,338 Additions from business combinations 2 18 20 Additions 1 96 62 70 108 127 464 Disposals 44 48 6 9 107 Transfers 82 22 1 82 23 Foreign exchange movements 69 27 476 4 8 584 At 30 June 2016 546 750 666 3,451 510 148 228 6,299 Amortisation At 1 July 2014 7 239 397 48 271 962 Amortisation 1 84 88 231 60 464 Disposals 4 18 145 1 168 Impairments 4 1 5 Foreign exchange movements 1 8 9 At 30 June 2015 4 309 340 271 330 1,254 Amortisation Amortisation 113 100 340 73 626 Disposals 44 48 6 98 Impairments 7 3 4 2 16 Foreign exchange movements 1 10 44 55 At 30 June 2016 5 385 405 653 405 1,853 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2014 11 259 161 155 67 71 86 810 At 30 June 2015 472 307 263 2,708 96 122 116 4,084 At 30 June 2016 541 365 261 2,798 105 148 228 4,446 1 In the current year, intangible assets of 7 million were derecognised as part of the disposal of a subsidiary.
The estimated future amortisation charge on intangible assets with finite lives for each of the next five years is set out below.
It is likely that future amortisation will vary from the figures below as the estimate does not include the impact of any future investments, disposals or capital expenditure.
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Year ending m m m m m Estimated amortisation charge 469 387 323 256 220 Within intangible assets there are certain assets with indefinite useful lives.
The carrying value of these assets is 577 million 2015: 482 million.
The Groups internally generated intangible assets relate principally to software development associated with our customer management systems and set-top boxes.
The Groups other intangible assets mainly include copyright licences and connection fees.
As part of the acquisition of Sky Italia the Group acquired the rights to use trademarks in certain territories.
The rights to use trademarks in certain territories are considered to have indefinite lives because the Group has the intention and ability to consume these rights over an indefinite period.
An impairment review of the assets is performed annually as part of the Groups impairment reviews of its CGUs note 12.
Included within customer contracts and related customer relationships are intangible assets with a net book value of 1,584 million 2015: 1,522 million and a remaining useful life of 14 years 2015: 15 years relating to the acquired customer base in Germany and Austria and intangible assets with a net book value of 1,077 million 2015: 1,057 million and a remaining useful life of 14 years 2015: 15 years relating to the acquired customer base in Italy.
The cost of these assets was 54 million 2015: 48 million and the accumulated depreciation was 29 million 2015: 17 million.
Depreciation charged during the year on such assets was 12 million 2015: 8 million.
2 Depreciation was not charged on 88 million of land 2015: 88 million.
3 In the current year, property, plant and equipment of 1 million was disposed of as part of the disposal of a subsidiary.
As part of the disposal of Sky Bet, which has been treated as a discontinued operation note 3, property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of 9 million was disposed of in the prior year.
In addition, 4 million of depreciation in the prior year related to Sky Bet.
Investments in joint ventures and associates A list of the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
The movement in joint ventures and associates during the year was as follows: 2016 2015 m m Share of net assets: At 1 July 133 173 Movement in net assets Funding 8 10 Dividends received 20 25 Share of profits 2 28 1 Acquisition of associate 1 86 2 Disposal of associates 149 Exchange differences on translation of foreign joint ventures and associates 1 10 At 30 June 123 133 1 During the prior year, the Group sold a controlling stake in Sky Bet and retained an equity stake of 20% in Sky Bet.
See note 3 for further details.
2 During the prior year, the Group disposed of its interest in NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC.
See note 6 for further details.
The Groups share of any capital commitments and contingent liabilities of associates and joint ventures is shown in note 28.
Annual Report 2016 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued a Investments in associates Representing 100% of the Groups investment in Sky Bet: 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 759 771 Current assets 146 101 Current liabilities 108 81 Non-current liabilities 863 803 Shareholders deficit 66 12 Groups share of shareholders deficit 13 2 Consolidation and other adjustments 91 91 Investment in associates 78 89 Revenue 372 80 Loss profit after tax 53 13 For the period from 19 March 2015 to 30 June 2015 No dividends were received in either the current year or prior period.
For the period between 1 July 2014 and the disposal of NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC, their revenue was 119 million and profit for the period was 36 million.
b Investments in joint ventures Representing the Groups share of each joint venture: 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 13 12 Current assets 83 77 Current liabilities 41 36 Non-current liabilities 92 61 Shareholders deficit 37 8 Revenue 105 106 Expense 88 91 Taxation 3 3 Share of profit from joint ventures 14 12 The aggregate carrying amount of the investments in joint ventures that are not individually material for the Group is 45 million as at 30 June 2016 2015: 44 million.
Available-for-sale investments 2016 2015 m m Listed investments 3 Unlisted investments 71 28 71 31 The Groups listed investments are carried at fair value and the fair value is determined with reference to the equity share price at the balance sheet date.
Unlisted investments consist of minority equity stakes in a number of technology and start-up companies.
During the current year, the Group purchased investments in iflix Limited 32 million, DataXu Inc. 7 million and fuboTV Inc. 4 million.
Other principal investments include Roku Inc. and Whistle Sports.
During the current year, the Group disposed of its investments in Elemental Technologies and 1Mainstream.
Deferred tax i Recognised deferred tax assets liabilities Share-based Financial Accelerated Intangibles on Short-term payments instruments tax business temporary temporary temporary depreciation combinations Tax losses differences differences differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 July 2014 3 1 4 28 6 30 Charge credit to income 28 61 21 3 16 2 65 Credit charge to equity 15 20 5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 895 589 90 1 217 Effect of change in tax rate Income 3 3 Foreign exchange movements 2 81 57 8 18 At 30 June 2015 20 752 553 83 59 29 106 Charge credit to income 11 78 45 13 8 7 98 Charge to equity 21 49 70 Acquisition of subsidiaries 4 4 Effect of change in tax rate Income 1 33 2 3 2 27 Equity 3 3 Foreign exchange movements 5 116 100 12 2 11 At 30 June 2016 35 761 696 79 28 70 63 Deferred tax assets have been recognised at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015 on the basis that, from managements current forecast of the Groups entities, it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
The carrying value of deferred tax assets in excess of deferred tax liabilities principally arising on the acquisition of Sky Deutschland was 243 million as at 30 June 2016 2015: 147 million.
The majority of the deferred tax asset relates to tax losses in the German and Austrian businesses, which can be carried forward indefinitely.
The Directors have concluded that it is probable that there will be sufficient future taxable profits against which the German and Austrian losses can be utilised, taking into account the Groups latest available five-year forecast, which was considered by the Companys Board of Directors, and extrapolated beyond the forecast period as disclosed in note 12.
The forecast shows that the Group will continue to benefit from the utilisation of the tax losses beyond the initial five-year forecasting period.
For further details regarding this judgement, please refer to the Groups critical accounting policies and the use of judgement and estimates section, contained in note 1.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse.
The rate enacted or substantively enacted for the relevant periods of reversal are: 19.0% from 1 April 2017 and 18.0% from 1 April 2020 in the UK 2015: 20.0% : 31.4% up to June 2017 and 28.1% thereafter in Italy 2015: 31.4% : and 27.4% in Germany 2015: 27.4%.
The UK Government announced a reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 17.0% from 1 April 2020.
The reduction to 17.0% has not been substantively enacted and has not therefore been reflected in the figures above.
The impact of the future rate reduction will be accounted for to the extent that it is enacted at future balance sheet dates, however, it is estimated that this will not have a material impact on the Group.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset jurisdiction by jurisdiction: 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax assets 245 175 Deferred tax liabilities 308 281 63 106 ii Unrecognised deferred tax assets 2016 2015 m m Tax losses arising from trading gross 2016: 1,548 million, 2015: 1,352 million 245 219 Tax losses arising from capital disposals and provisions against investments gross 2016: 1,380 million, 2015: 1,388 million 262 278 507 497 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
At 30 June 2016, a deferred tax asset of 1 million 2015: 9 million principally arising from UK trading losses in the Group has not been recognised.
These losses can only be offset against taxable profits generated in the entities concerned.
There is currently insufficient evidence to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to these losses.
The UK trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
At 30 June 2016, a deferred tax asset of 244 million 2015: 210 million has not been recognised in respect of overseas trading losses on the basis that it is not probable that these temporary differences will be utilised.
These losses include 243 million 2015: 207 million with respect to the Groups former investment in KirchPayTV and 1 million 2015: 3 million with respect to other subsidiaries.
At 30 June 2016, a deferred tax asset of 258 million 2015: 274 million has not been recognised in respect of capital losses related to the Groups former investment in KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2016, the Group also has capital losses with a tax value estimated to be 4 million 2015: 4 million including impairment of a football club and other investments, which have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
The capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Annual Report 2016 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Inventories 2016 2015 m m Television programme rights 940 811 Set-top boxes and related equipment 26 26 Other inventories 24 10 Current inventory 990 847 Non-current programme distribution rights 36 31 Total inventory 1,026 878 At 30 June 2016, 80% 2015: 75% of the television programme rights and 100% 2015: 100% of set-top boxes and related equipment and other inventories is expected to be recognised in the income statement within 12 months.
Inventories with a carrying value of 25 million 2015: 3 million were written-down in the year.
Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 m m Gross trade receivables 441 337 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 96 70 Net trade receivables 345 267 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 13 19 Amounts receivable from other related parties 20 26 Prepayments 527 499 Accrued income 332 216 VAT 2 3 Other receivables 110 66 Current trade and other receivables 1,349 1,096 Prepayments 8 6 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 77 70 Other receivables 10 10 Non-current trade and other receivables 95 86 Total trade and other receivables 1,444 1,182 Included within current trade and other receivables is nil 2015: nil which is due in more than one year.
The ageing of the Groups net trade receivables which are past due but not impaired is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Up to 30 days past due date 61 27 30 to 60 days past due date 14 8 60 to 120 days past due date 4 4 120 days past due date 3 1 82 40 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair values.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on its trade and other receivables, however the Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Trade receivables principally comprise amounts outstanding from subscribers, advertisers and other customers.
Provisions for doubtful debts 2016 2015 m m Balance at beginning of year 70 95 Amounts utilised 42 65 Provided during the year 68 40 Balance at end of year 96 70 Sky plc 100 Financial statements 20.
Trade and other payables 2016 2015 m m Trade payables 1,421 1,361 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 14 16 Amounts owed to other related parties 181 175 VAT 246 155 Accruals 1,375 1,160 Deferred income 462 401 Other payables 203 162 Current trade and other payables 3,902 3,430 Trade payables 34 31 Amounts owed to other related parties 1 5 Deferred income 7 6 Other payables 39 52 Non-current trade and other payables 81 94 Total trade and other payables 3,983 3,524 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair values.
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for programming purchases and ongoing costs.
Provisions Reclassified Provided Utilised Foreign At At Acquisition Disposal Reclassified Provided Utilised Foreign At 1 July of of during the during during exchange 1 July during the during during exchange 30 June year the year the year movement 2016 2014 subsidiaries subsidiaries year the year the year movement 2015 m m m m m m m m m m m m m Current liabilities Restructuring 1 provision 22 10 9 19 1 21 4 20 17 1 29 Customer-related 2 provisions 2 31 33 47 15 65 3 Other provisions 24 3 34 12 49 13 47 23 1 87 48 13 74 31 1 103 17 114 55 2 181 Non-current liabilities Other provisions 14 20 6 6 25 6 2 51 17 32 10 5 61 Employee benefit 4 obligations 30 1 3 26 3 1 5 33 14 50 6 6 25 7 5 77 17 35 11 10 94 1 These provisions relate to costs incurred as part of corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes.
2 These provisions include costs of a programme to replace aged customer equipment.
3 Included in current other provisions are amounts provided for legal disputes, warranty liabilities and onerous contracts for property leases and maintenance.
The timing of the cash flows for onerous leases is dependent on the terms of the leases, but is expected to continue up to June 2017.
4 In the prior year, the Group acquired employee benefit obligations as part of its acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia on 12 November 2014.
These obligations are described further below.
Employee benefit obligations Acquired at Actuarial Foreign At Actuarial Foreign At 12 November Pension losses exchange 30 June Pension losses exchange 30 June 2014 payments gains movement 2015 payments gains movement 2016 m m m m m m m m m Sky Deutschland defined benefit obligations 10 1 1 10 2 2 14 Sky Italia employee benefit obligations 20 1 1 2 16 1 1 3 19 30 1 3 26 1 3 5 33 Annual Report 2016 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Provisions continued a Sky Deutschland Sky Deutschland operates unfunded final salary defined benefit pension plans that are not covered by plan assets.
These plans were closed to future accrual.
The total defined benefit obligation at 30 June 2016 was 14 million 2015: 10 million.
The amount of the pension entitlement depends on the salary of the respective employee at the time of retirement.
Employee benefit obligations will be funded out of current and future earnings.
The present value of the obligations was measured using the projected unit credit method applying the following principal assumptions: Actuarial projections including assumptions about cost-of-living increases, salary increases, etc.
were made to value the future benefits expected to be paid by the post-employment plan in the event of mortality both during and after employment, disability and early retirement.
Seniority and rates of employee turnover as well as salary and benefit levels at the measurement date were also taken into account in projecting future benefits: The average present value at the measurement date has been calculated on the basis of the assumed annual discount rate and the probability of services being rendered: The following specific assumptions have been used: Annual discount rate of 1.50% 2015: 2.45% : Annual growth rate of 2.00% 2015: 2.00% : Annual salary growth rate of 2.50% 2015: 2.50% : and Annual fluctuation rate employees of 7.00% 2015: 7.00%.
Since there are no plan assets as defined by IAS 19 revised 2011 and all actuarial gains and losses are recognised when incurred, the present value of the defined benefit obligation of the pension obligations and the obligations similar to pensions is equivalent to the provision recognised on the balance sheet.
Reasonably possible changes to these assumptions would not have a material impact on the provision.
The weighted average maturity of the defined benefit obligation is 22 years 2015: 21 years as of the balance sheet date.
Expected pension payments in the year to 30 June 2017 are less than 1 million 2015: less than 1 million.
b Sky Italia Sky Italias employee benefit obligations relate to a provision for employee retirement, determined using actuarial techniques as discussed further below and regulated by Article 2120 of the Italian Civil Code.
The total employee benefit obligation at 30 June 2016 was 19 million 2015: 16 million.
The benefit is paid upon retirement as a lump sum, the amount of which corresponds to the total of the provisions accrued during the employees service period based on payroll costs as revalued until retirement.
Seniority and rates of employee turnover as well as salary and benefit levels at the measurement date were also taken into account in projecting future benefits: The average present value at the measurement date has been calculated on the basis of the assumed annual discount rate and the probability of services being rendered: The following specific assumptions have been used: Annual discount rate of 0.01% 2015: 0.12% : Annual inflation rate of 0.40% 2015: 0.10% : Annual revaluation rate of 1.80% 2015: 1.58% : Annual fluctuation rate employees of 5.40% 2015: 5.39% : and Annual mortality rate of 0.11% 2015: 0.10%.
The weighted average maturity of the defined benefit obligation is 17 years 2015: 17 years as of the balance sheet date.
Expected pension payments in the year to 30 June 2017 are 1 million 2015: less than 1 million.
Borrowings 2016 2015 m m Current borrowings Loan Notes 6 4 i US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 468 ii Obligations under finance leases 25 22 31 494 Non-current borrowings i 398 399 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 i US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 559 474 i US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 435 372 i US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 576 477 i 600 million of Guaranteed Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 499 425 i 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 470 445 i 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,243 1,058 i US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 597 504 i 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 705 602 i US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 933 787 i 500 million of 2.250% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2025 414 i 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 828 705 i 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 296 i 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 297 297 i 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 330 281 i US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 259 218 Loan Notes 1 2 ii Obligations under finance leases 61 76 8,901 7,418 i Guaranteed Notes At 30 June 2016, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed fixed and floating rate notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 450 450 3m LIBOR 1.230% 500 million of 2.250% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2025 356 356 3.721% 1,582 906 676 Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 581 581 3m EURIBOR 0.656% 600 million of Guaranteed Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 600 600 3m EURIBOR 0.750% 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,500 1,500 1.500% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 689 689 2.118% 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 850 850 1.875% US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 969 969 2.187% 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 1,000 1,000 2.500% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 411 411 5.006% 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 399 399 3.122% 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 400 400 2.750% 7,399 6,218 1,181 Annual Report 2016 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Borrowings continued At 30 June 2016, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by Sky Group Finance plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.864% 600 550 50 At 30 June 2015, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed fixed and floating rate notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 450 450 3m LIBOR 1.230% 1,226 550 676 Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 581 581 3m EURIBOR 0.656% 600 million of Guaranteed Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 600 600 3m EURIBOR 0.750% 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,500 1,500 1.500% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 689 689 2.118% 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 850 850 1.875% US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 969 969 2.187% 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 1,000 1,000 2.500% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 411 411 5.006% 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 399 399 3.122% 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 400 400 2.750% 7,399 6,218 1,181 At 30 June 2015, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by Sky Group Finance plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% 1,028 721 307 Hedged value is the final redemption value including any hedging The Group has a Global Medium-Term Note Programme the Programme, which provides the Group with a standardised documentation platform for senior debt issuance of up to 5 billion in the major global bond markets.
The 500 million of 2.250% Guaranteed Notes maturing in November 2025, issued during the current year and the 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes maturing in May 2027 have been issued under this Programme.
Sky plc 104 Financial statements ii Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 25 22 Between one and five years 37 53 After five years 121 128 183 203 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 97 105 Present value of finance lease liabilities 86 98 The main obligations under finance leases are in relation to: a finance arrangements in connection with the broadband network infrastructure.
During the year, repayments of 9 million 2015: 7 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 11.1% and expires in November 2039. b finance arrangements in connection with the contact centre in Dunfermline.
During the year, repayments of 2 million 2015: 1 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital amount outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 8.5% and expires in September 2020. c finance arrangements in connection with datacentre equipment.
During the year repayments of 3 million 2015: 3 million were made against the lease.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 3.6% and expired in June 2016. d finance arrangements in connection with set-top boxes.
During the year repayments of 9 million 2015: 5 million were made against the lease.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 7% and expires in March 2017. iii Revolving Credit Facility The Group has a 1 billion RCF with a maturity date of 30 November 2021, syndicated across 15 counterparty banks, each with a minimum credit rating of Baa2 or equivalent from Standard & Poors.
At 30 June 2016, the RCF was undrawn 2015: undrawn.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the RCF, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio, which are tested at the end of each six-monthly period.
The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the loan agreements and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable as defined in the loan agreements.
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 4.00:1 and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable must be at least 3.50:1.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants for all periods presented.
iv Guarantees The following guarantees are in place relating to the Groups borrowings: a Sky UK Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited, Sky Group Finance plc, Sky Telecommunications Services Limited and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the Companys 1 billion RCF and the outstanding Guaranteed Fixed and Floating Rate Notes issued by the Company: and b the Company, Sky UK Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited, Sky Telecommunications Services Limited and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by Sky Group Finance plc.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
2016 2015 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 79 1,079 62 1,275 Cross-currency swaps 118 466 18 466 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 526 2,088 137 1,435 12 503 Forward foreign exchange contracts 361 4,095 12 539 148 2,191 36 1,065 Net investment hedges Cross-currency swaps 240 2,343 150 1,943 3 400 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Cross-currency swaps 100 522 51 353 25 390 Forward foreign exchange contracts 50 818 43 702 17 244 7 460 Interest rate swaps 6 260 260 Embedded Derivative 8 86 Total 1,234 9,068 309 3,930 583 7,907 83 3,078 Annual Report 2016 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivatives and other financial instruments continued The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is as follows: 2016 2015 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 193 50 130 22 Between one and two years 299 6 46 7 Between two and five years 349 36 254 40 In more than five years 393 217 153 14 Total 1,234 309 583 83 The fair value of the Groups debt-related derivative portfolio at 30 June 2016 was a 577 million net asset 2015: net asset of 378 million with notional principal amounts totalling 6,758 million 2015: 7,025 million.
This comprised: net assets of 526 million designated as cash flow hedges 2015: net assets of 125 million, net assets of 197 million designated as fair value hedges 2015: net assets of 80 million, net liabilities of 240 million designated as net investment hedges 2015: net assets of 147 million and net assets of 94 million not designated in a formal hedge relationship 2015: net assets of 26 million.
At 30 June 2016, the carrying value of financial assets that were, upon initial recognition, designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss was nil 2015: nil.
Hedge accounting classification and impact The Group designated certain interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk and cross-currency swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, this represents 23% 2015: 25% of the total debt related derivative portfolio.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged items are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, to the extent that hedge accounting is achieved.
The Group designated certain fixed rate cross-currency swaps as cash flow hedges, this represents 31% 2015: 28% of the total debt related derivative portfolio.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a separate component of the hedging reserve, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Cash flows on the swaps occur semi-annually up to and inclusive of the relevant bond maturity disclosed in note 22.
During the current year, gains of 398 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to finance costs in the income statement principally to offset the currency translation movements in the underlying hedged debt 2015: gains of 145 million.
The Group designated certain cross-currency swaps as net investment hedges, this represents 35% 2015: 33% of the total debt related derivative portfolio.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses on those hedging instruments which include bonds and cross-currency swaps designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective: these amounts are as stated in the statement of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating to hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income statement for the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The Group designates certain forward foreign exchange contracts as cash flow hedges of forecast foreign currency sales and purchases.
Gains or losses are released from the hedging reserve and recycled to the income statement in the same period as the hedged item is recognised.
If forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any amounts included in the hedging reserve related to that forecast transaction would be recognised directly in the income statement.
During the current year, gains of 31 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to operating expense in the income statement 2015: gains of 3 million.
Gains of 29 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to revenue in the income statement 2015: gains of 26 million.
Hedge effectiveness testing is performed quarterly using the dollar-offset approach.
The actual movement in the hedging items is compared with the movement in the valuation of the hypothetically perfect hedge of the underlying risk at inception, and any ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
For fair value hedges ineffectiveness of 1 million was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2015: 1 million.
For cash flow hedges ineffectiveness of less than 1 million was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2015: less than 1 million.
For net investment hedges ineffectiveness of nil was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2015: nil.
A hedge relationship is deemed to be effective if the ratio of changes in valuation of the underlying hedged item and the hedging instrument is within the range of 80% to 125%.
Any relationship which has a ratio outside this range is deemed to be ineffective, at which point hedge accounting is suspended.
During the year ended 30 June 2016, there was one instance in which the hedge relationship was not highly effective 2015: no instances.
Sky plc 106 Financial statements Financial instruments a Carrying value and fair value The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities, together with their fair values, is as follows: Held to Derivatives Derivatives in Total maturity Availabledeemed held hedging Loans and Other carrying Total fair investments for-sale for trading relationships receivables liabilities value value m m m m m m m m At 30 June 2016 Quoted bond debt 8,839 8,839 9,427 Derivative financial instruments 93 832 925 925 Trade and other payables 3,309 3,309 3,309 Provisions 204 204 204 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 93 93 93 Available-for-sale investments 71 71 71 Trade and other receivables 1,131 1,131 1,131 Cash and cash equivalents 825 1,312 2,137 2,137 At 30 June 2015 Quoted bond debt 7,808 7,808 8,083 Derivative financial instruments 36 464 500 500 Trade and other payables 2,894 2,894 2,894 Provisions 129 129 129 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 104 104 104 Available-for-sale investments 31 31 31 Trade and other receivables 807 807 807 Short-term deposits 1,100 1,100 1,100 Cash and cash equivalents 50 1,328 1,378 1,378 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities which includes our quoted bond debt, with standard terms and conditions and which are traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices based on level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: Interest rate and cross-currency swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates: and The fair value of obligations under finance leases and other borrowings is estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present value.
The fair value of short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The differences between carrying values and fair values reflect unrealised gains or losses inherent in the financial instruments, based on valuations as at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held to maturity investments comprise money market deposits which have maturity dates of less than three months from inception.
Money market deposits, enhanced return investments and tri-party repurchase agreements which have maturity greater than three months from inception are classified as short-term deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as loans and receivables mainly comprise investments in AAAm rated money market funds which can be withdrawn without notice.
Annual Report 2016 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivatives and other financial instruments continued b Fair value hierarchy The following table categorises the Groups financial instruments which are held at fair value into one of three levels to reflect the degree to which observable inputs are used in determining their fair values: Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m At 30 June 2016 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial instruments Other investments 71 71 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 79 79 Cross-currency swaps 744 744 Forward foreign exchange contracts 411 411 Total 1,305 1,234 71 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 6 6 Cross-currency swaps 240 240 Forward foreign exchange contracts 55 55 Embedded Derivative 8 8 Total 309 309 At 30 June 2015 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial instruments Other investments 31 3 28 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 62 62 Cross-currency swaps 356 356 Forward foreign exchange contracts 165 165 Total 614 3 583 28 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross-currency swaps 40 40 Forward foreign exchange contracts 43 43 Total 83 83 Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, including shares in listed entities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Derivative financial instrument fair values are present values determined from future cash flows discounted at rates derived from market source data.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Certain of the Groups unlisted available-for-sale financial assets are held at fair value and are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Financial risk management Group Treasury activity The Groups Treasury function is responsible for raising finance for the Groups operations, together with associated liquidity management and management of foreign exchange, interest rate and credit risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed annually by both the Audit Committee and the Board, which receive regular updates of Treasury activity.
Derivative instruments are transacted for risk management purposes only.
It is the Groups policy that all hedging is to cover known risks and no speculative trading is undertaken.
Regular and frequent reporting to management is required for all transactions and exposures, and the internal control environment is subject to periodic review by the Groups internal audit team.
The Groups principal market risks are exposures to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, which arise both from the Groups sources of finance and its operations.
Following evaluation of those market risks, the Group selectively enters into derivative financial instruments to manage these exposures.
The principal instruments currently used are interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risks, and cross-currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge transactional and translational currency exposures.
Interest rate risk The Group has financial exposures to UK, euro and US interest rates, arising primarily from the Groups long-term bonds and other borrowings.
The Groups hedging policy requires that between 50% and 85% of borrowings are held at fixed rates.
This is achieved by issuing fixed rate bonds or floating rate notes and then using interest rate swaps to adjust the balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
The Groups bank debt is at floating rates, and, if drawn, would mean that the mix of fixed and floating rate debt would fluctuate and would therefore be managed to ensure compliance with the Groups hedging policy.
At 30 June 2016, 80% of borrowings were held at fixed rates after hedging 2015: 76%.
The Group uses derivatives to convert all of its US dollar-denominated debt and associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling or euros see section on foreign exchange risk for further detail.
At 30 June 2016, the Group had no net US dollar denominated interest rate exposure on its borrowings.
The Group designates certain interest rate swaps as hedges of interest rate risk and certain cross-currency swaps as fair value hedges of both interest rate risk and currency risk.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged exposure are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, which are also taken to the income statement.
Any hedge ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
In the year ended 30 June 2016, this amounted to 1 million 2015: 1 million.
At 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015, the Groups annual finance costs would increase or decrease by less than 1 million for a one-notch downgrade or upgrade in credit rating assuming the RCF remains undrawn.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date is outstanding for the whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates, and if all other variables were held constant at 30 June 2016: The Groups profit for the year ended 30 June 2016 would increase or decrease by 34 million 2015: profit for the year would increase or decrease by less than 1 million.
Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 33 million 2015: decrease or increase by 12 million, arising from movements in cash flow hedges.
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities at different interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates changes as the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Foreign exchange risk A combination of cross-currency and interest rate swap arrangements is used to convert the Groups debt and associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling or euros, at fixed exchange rates.
At 30 June 2016, the split of the Groups aggregate borrowings into their core currencies was US dollar 38%, euros 45% and pounds sterling 17% 2015: US dollar 42%, euros 39% and pounds sterling 19%.
At 30 June 2016, 26% of the Groups long-term borrowings, after the impact of derivatives, are denominated in pounds sterling and 74% in euros 2015: 30% in pounds sterling and 70% in euros.
The Group is exposed to currency translation on the consolidation of its foreign operations.
It uses certain borrowings and derivative instruments to hedge its net investments in these subsidiaries.
The majority of the Groups revenues and operating expenses are denominated in pounds sterling.
In the current year, approximately 31% of operating expenses 3,461 million was denominated in euros 2015: approximately 24% 2,206 million and approximately 10% of operating expenses 1,096 million was denominated in US dollars 2015: approximately 8% 758 million.
In the current year, approximately 33% of revenues 3,946 million was denominated in euros 2015: 25% 2,572 million.
Following the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia, the Group Treasury function hedges the foreign currency exposure of its foreign subsidiaries into its local reporting currency.
In all territories the US dollar expense relates mainly to the Groups programming contracts with US suppliers, together with US dollar-denominated set-top box costs.
In the UK the euro revenues primarily relate to subscribers located in Ireland.
The UKs exposure to euro-denominated revenue is offset to a certain extent by euro-denominated costs, related mainly to certain transponder costs and euro financing costs on its borrowings: the net position being a euro surplus 2015: surplus.
Annual Report 2016 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Financial risk management continued The Group hedges currency exposures on US dollar denominated highly probable cash flows by using forward foreign exchange contracts purchased up to five years ahead of the cash flow and currently does not hedge transactional euro exposures arising in the UK.
It is the Groups policy that all US dollar foreign currency exposures are substantially hedged in advance of the year in which they occur.
At 30 June 2016, the Group had purchased forward foreign exchange contracts representing: Approximately 95% of US dollar-denominated costs falling due within one year 2015: 92%, and on a declining basis across five-year planning horizon are hedged via: Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, US$3,520 million 2015: US$2,611 million at an average rate of US$1.53 to 1.00 2015: US$1.58 to 1.00.
Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, US$2,027 million 2015: US$1,891 million at an average rate of US$1.16 to 1.00 2015: US$1.18 to 1.00.
In respect of the UK legacy euro hedging programme and to hedge current balance sheet exposures: Outstanding commitments to sell, in aggregate, 1,214 million 2015: 976 million at an average rate of 1.23 to 1.00 2015: 1.22 to 1.00.
Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, 795 million 2015: 525 million at an average rate of 1.12 to 1.00 2015: 1.37 to 1.00.
In respect of the Groups European subsidiaries to hedge their material non-functional currency exposures: Outstanding commitment to purchase, in aggregate, 66 million 2015: nil at an average rate of 0.79 to 1.00 2015: nil.
No forward foreign exchange contracts fall due beyond five years 2015: nil.
The Group designates the following as cash flow hedges for hedge accounting purposes: Forward foreign exchange contracts Cross-currency swaps where interest on both legs is at a fixed interest rate.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a component of the hedging reserve, outside the income statement, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Ineffectiveness of less than 1 million was recognised in the income statement during the year 2015: less than 1 million.
A combination of US dollar denominated interest rate and US dollar pound sterling cross-currency swaps is used to convert fixed dollar denominated debt to floating sterling denominated debt.
The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
The associated cross-currency swaps are not designated as hedging instruments for hedge accounting purposes and, as such, movements in their value are recorded directly in the income statement.
Foreign exchange sensitivity The following analysis details the Groups sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling and euros against those currencies in which it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have the effect of reducing profit by 9 million 2015: reducing profit by 12 million, of which losses of 10 million relate to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives 2015: losses of 13 million.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 584 million 2015: adverse impact of 359 million.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have the effect of increasing profit by 15 million 2015: increasing profit by 19 million of which gains of 17 million relate to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives 2015: gains of 21 million.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 974 million 2015: beneficial impact of 598 million.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the euro would have the effect of increasing profit by 109 million 2015: increasing profit by 69 million of which gains of 104 million relate to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives 2015: gains of 53 million.
The same strengthening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 69 million 2015: beneficial impact of 102 million.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the euro would have the effect of decreasing profit by 180 million 2015: decreasing profit by 115 million of which losses of 174 million relate to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives 2015: 88 million.
The same weakening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 115 million 2015: adverse impact of 170 million.
A 25% strengthening in the euro against the US dollar would have the effect of decreasing profit by 4 million 2015: increase profit by 35 million.
None of this amount relates to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 341 million 2015: 312 million.
A 25% weakening in the euro against the US dollar would have the effect of increasing profit by 7 million 2015: decrease profit by 58 million.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 569 million 2015: 520 million.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.
Sky plc 110 Financial statements Hedge accounting The interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk sections above outline the Groups policies regarding use of derivative products.
Further detail on valuations and the impact of hedge accounting during the year are provided in note 23. Credit risk The Group is exposed to counterparty default risk arising in respect of invested cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, and the positive fair value of derivative financial assets held.
This risk is deemed to be low.
Counterparty risk forms a central part of the Groups Treasury policy, which is monitored and reported on regularly.
The Group manages credit risk by diversifying its exposures across a wide number of counterparties, such that the maximum exposure to any individual counterparty was 7% of the total asset value of instruments at the end of the year.
Treasury policies ensure that all derivative transactions are only effected with strong relationship banks and, at the date of signing, each existing derivative counterparty carried a minimum credit rating of Baa2 or equivalent from Standard & Poors.
To mitigate remaining risks, counterparty credit and sovereign ratings are closely monitored, and no more than 10% of cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty with the exception of overnight deposits which are invested in a spread of AAAf rated liquidity funds.
The amount recognised in the income statement in respect of credit risk for derivatives deemed held for trading is 2 million 2015: 1 million.
Credit risk in our residential customer base is mitigated by billing and collecting in advance for digital television subscriptions for the majority of our residential customer base.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is the carrying amounts as disclosed in note 19.
Liquidity risk Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, combined with access to a 1 billion RCF, which expires in November 2021.
At 30 June 2016, this facility was undrawn 30 June 2015: undrawn.
To ensure continuity of funding, the Groups policy is to ensure that available funding matures over a period of years.
At 30 June 2016, 70% 2015: 70% of the Groups total available funding including available undrawn amounts on our RCF was due to mature in more than five years.
Full details of the Groups borrowings and undrawn facilities are shown in note 22, other than trade and other payables, shown in note 20, and provisions, shown in note 21.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled derivative financial instruments and gross settled financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings, based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments, provisions and trade and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2016 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 162 725 1,257 2,202 Bonds EUR 73 74 719 3,855 Bonds GBP 66 466 579 816 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 31 12 26 121 Trade and other payables 3,017 154 14 18 Provisions 132 7 23 15 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 25 25 25 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 3,167 2,154 3,250 4,611 Inflow 3,366 2,102 3,638 4,945 Between Between Less than one and two and More than five years five years 12 months two years m m m m At 30 June 2015 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 626 137 1,615 1,920 Bonds EUR 57 55 595 2,948 Bonds GBP 66 66 552 1,309 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 26 26 29 128 Trade and other payables 2,676 123 15 19 Provisions 81 15 3 16 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 31 24 40 9 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 2,292 1,046 3,359 3,851 Inflow 2,433 1,130 3,665 4,216 Annual Report 2016 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Financial risk management continued Capital Risk Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to endeavour to ensure that the Group has the ability to access capital markets when necessary and to optimise liquidity and operating flexibility through the arrangement of new debt, while seeking to minimise the cost of capital.
The Group monitors its liquidity requirements regularly and is satisfied that it has access to sufficient liquidity and operating flexibility to meet its capital requirements.
The Group manages its short and long-term capital structure by seeking to maintain leverage ratios consistent with a long-term investment grade credit rating BBBor better from Standard & Poors and Baa3 or better from Moodys.
The Groups current ratings are BBB Standard & Poors and Baa2 Moodys both with stable outlook.
The leverage ratios assessed by these rating agencies are those of Net Debt: EBITDA and Gross Debt: EBITDA.
Net Debt is defined as total borrowings, including the cash flows arising under operating leases and transponder prepayments, less cash and cash equivalents, excluding derivatives.
Gross Debt does not reduce total borrowings by the inclusion of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group is also required to maintain a Net Debt: EBITDA ratio below 4.00:1 and an EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio at above 3.50:1 under the terms of its RCF.
The RCF definition of Net Debt does not require the inclusion of future operating lease or transponder cash flows.
At 30 June 2016, the Net Debt: EBITDA ratio as defined by the terms of the RCF was 2.4:1 2015: 2.5:1, and the EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio was 10.4:1 2015: 10.6:1.
Share capital 2016 2015 m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid shares of 50p 1,719,017,230 2015: 1,719,017,230 860 860 2016 2015 Number of Number of ordinary ordinary shares shares Allotted and fully paid during the year Beginning of year 1,719,017,230 1,562,885,017 Issue of own equity shares 156,132,213 End of year 1,719,017,230 1,719,017,230 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry equal voting rights and no contractual right to receive payment.
On 25 July 2014, the Company announced the placing of 156,132,213 new ordinary shares representing approximately 9.99% of existing issued share capital at that date, for total gross proceeds of 1,358 million.
12 million of transaction costs were accounted for as a deduction from equity.
Share option and contingent share award schemes The Company operates various equity-settled share option schemes the Schemes for certain employees.
The number of newly issued shares which may be allocated under the Schemes on any day shall not, when aggregated with the number of newly issued shares which have been allocated in the previous 10 years under the Schemes and any other employee share scheme adopted by the Company, exceed such number as represents 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to that day.
In determining this limit no account shall be taken of any newly issued shares where the right to acquire the newly issued shares was released, lapsed, cancelled or otherwise became incapable of exercise.
Options and awards which will be satisfied by ESOP shares do not fall within these headroom limits.
The share awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: 2016 2015 Number of Number of ordinary ordinary shares shares i Sharesave Scheme options 9,212,906 8,367,072 ii Management LTIP awards 18,939,950 27,108,781 iii LTIP awards 6,960,425 8,895,963 iv Management Co-Investment LTIP awards 2,093,612 2,021,348 v CoInvestment LTIP awards 1,846,610 1,768,738 39,053,503 48,161,902 i Sharesave Scheme options All Sharesave Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme must be exercised within six months of the relevant award vesting date.
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all employees across the Group.
Options are normally exercisable after either three or five years from the date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the scheme following the announcement of the end of year results.
Sky plc 112 Financial statements ii Management LTIP awards All Management LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
Awards exercised under the Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the issue of market-purchased shares.
iii LTIP awards All LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of a nil-priced option.
The awards vest in full or in part dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets.
awards that vested in 2011, 30% of the award vested dependent on TSR performance over a three-year performance period, relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant, and the remaining 70% vested dependent on performance against operational targets.
The TSR performance targets were not applicable to awards made between July 2010 and March 2012 but have been reintroduced for awards granted from July 2012 onwards.
iv Management Co-Investment LTIP awards All Management Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management Co-Investment LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the Co-Investment LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
v Co-Investment LTIP awards All Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the Co-Investment LTIP award for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Employees who participate in the plan are granted a conditional award of shares based on the amount they have invested in the Companys shares.
The investment will be matched up to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every share invested, subject to a three-year EPS performance condition.
For the purposes of the disclosure below, the Management LTIP, LTIP, Management Co-Investment LTIP and Co-Investment LTIP awards Senior Management Schemes have been aggregated.
The Executive Scheme refers to options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
No options have been granted under this scheme since 2004.
For those exercised under the Sharesave Scheme it was 10.77 2015: 9.37, and for those exercised under the Senior Management Schemes it was 11.40 2015: 8.84.
In the prior year, the weighted average market price of the Groups shares at the date of exercise for share options exercised under the Executive Scheme was 8.90.
The middle-market closing price of the Companys shares at 1 July 2016 was 8.73 26 June 2015: 10.66.
Annual Report 2016 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2016: Senior management Sharesave Scheme Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 29,840,597 6.0 29,840,597 6.0 5.00 6.00 930,618 1.0 930,618 1.0 6.00 7.00 2,261,577 1.5 2,261,577 1.5 7.00 8.00 2,566,395 2.4 2,566,395 2.4 8.00 9.00 3,454,316 3.4 3,454,316 3.4 9,212,906 2.4 29,840,597 6.0 39,053,503 5.2 The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2015: Senior management Sharesave Scheme Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 39,794,830 5.9 39,794,830 5.9 4.00 5.00 7,827 0.1 7,827 0.1 5.00 6.00 1,586,366 1.7 1,586,366 1.7 6.00 7.00 3,643,835 2.1 3,643,835 2.1 7.00 8.00 3,129,044 3.4 3,129,044 3.4 8,367,072 2.5 39,794,830 5.9 48,161,902 5.3 The range of exercise prices of the awards outstanding at 30 June 2016 was between nil and 8.17 2015: nil and 7.08.
For those outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme it was between 5.08 and 8.17 2015: 4.33 and 7.08 and for all awards outstanding under the Senior Management Schemes the exercise price was nil 2015: nil.
The following table summarises additional information about the awards exercisable at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015: 2016 2015 Average Average remaining Weighted remaining Weighted contractual average contractual average Options life of exercise Options life of exercise exercisable exercisable price exercisable exercisable price at 30 June options at 30 June options Sharesave Scheme 103,049 0.1 5.88 41,293 0.1 4.94 Senior Management Schemes 840,248 3.7 0.00 273,118 2.7 0.00 943,297 3.3 0.64 314,411 2.3 0.65 Information for awards granted during the year The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the year, as estimated at the date of grant, was 7.91 2015: 6.03.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model except for awards which have market-based performance conditions, where a MonteCarlo simulation model was used, and for grants of nil-priced options, which were treated as the award of a free share.
The fair value of nil-priced options granted during the year was measured on the basis of the market-price of the Companys shares on the date of grant, discounted for expected dividends which would not be received over the vesting period of the options.
The Monte-Carlo simulation model reflected the historical volatilities of the Companys share price and those of all other companies to which the Companys performance would be compared, over a period equal to the vesting period of the awards.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price, over a period equal to the expected life of the options.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Sky plc 114 Financial statements i Sharesave Scheme The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Sharesave Scheme, as estimated at the date of grant, was 1.71 2015: 1.46.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2016 2015 Share price 10.39 8.82 Exercise price 8.17 7.08 Expected volatility 18% 20% Expected life 3.9 years 4.0 years Expected dividends 3.3% 3.5% Risk-free interest rate 1.1% 1.5% ii Senior Management Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Senior Management Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 9.85 2015: 6.93.
The fair value of awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
Awards granted as nil-priced options were treated as the award of a free share.
For all other awards, fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2016 2015 Share price 11.14 8.85 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 Expected volatility 18% 19% Expected life 2.1 years 3.0 years Expected dividends 3.3% 3.5% Risk-free interest rate 0.8% 1.4% 26.
Shareholders equity 2016 2015 m m Share capital 860 860 Share premium 2,704 2,704 ESOP reserve 125 125 Hedging reserve 257 62 Available-for-sale reserve 1 Other reserves 302 120 Retained earnings 551 455 3,447 3,165 The following table provides information about purchases of equity shares by the Company, including purchases by the Groups ESOP, during the fiscal year.
Total Average number of price paid shares per share 1 purchased July August 16,747,644 11.56 September 656,618 10.47 October November December January February March April May June Total for the year ended 30 June 2016 17,404,262 11.52 1 All share purchases were open market transactions and are included in the month of settlement.
Annual Report 2016 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Shareholders equity continued Share premium and special reserve On 10 December 2003, the High Court approved a reduction in the Companys share premium account of 1,120 million, as approved by the Companys shareholders at the AGM held on 14 November 2003.
This amount was equal to the Company-only profit and loss account reserve deficit at 30 June 2003.
As part of the application, the Companys balance sheet at 30 September 2003 was required to be presented.
At that date, the deficit on the Companyonly profit and loss account reserve had reduced by 14 million since 30 June 2003, to 1,106 million.
As a condition of the reduction, the reduction in the share premium account of 1,120 million was permitted to be offset against the profit and loss account reserve by the amount of the deficit at 30 September 2003.
The excess of 14 million was credited to a special reserve, which is included in other reserves, and, under the terms of the reduction, will remain undistributable until all the creditors of the Company and its guarantors as at 10 December 2003 are paid.
ESOP reserve The cost of the Companys ordinary shares held by the Groups ESOP is treated as a deduction in arriving at total shareholders equity.
The movement in the ESOP reserve was as follows: Number of Average ordinary price paid shares per share m At 1 July 2014 17,308,999 8.40 145 Share options exercised during the year 3,829,019 8.39 32 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 1,325,800 8.86 12 At 30 June 2015 14,805,780 8.44 125 Share options exercised during the year 21,283,563 9.39 200 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 17,404,262 11.52 200 At 30 June 2016 10,926,479 11.49 125 Hedging reserve Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are initially recognised in the hedging reserve, and subsequently recognised in the income statement when the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
In addition, deferred taxation relating to these derivatives is also initially recognised in the hedging reserve prior to transfer to the income statement.
Available-for-sale reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value where this can be reliably measured, with movements in the fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
At 30 June 2016, the Groups available-for-sale reserve was nil 2015: deficit of 1 million.
Other reserves The Groups other reserves include a capital redemption reserve, a merger reserve, a foreign currency translation reserve and a special reserve.
The capital redemption reserve was 190 million as at 30 June 2016 2015: 190 million.
The merger reserve was 125 million as at 30 June 2016 2015: 125 million.
The special reserve was 14 million as at 30 June 2016 2015: 14 million.
The foreign currency translation reserve was 24 million as at 30 June 2016 2015: 209 million.
Other reserves also includes the actuarial movement on employee benefit obligations of 3 million for the current year 2015: nil.
Reconciliation of movements in the foreign currency translation reserve 2016 2015 m m At 1 July 209 29 Net investment hedges 897 446 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1,082 646 Transfer to income statement on disposal of associate 38 At 30 June 24 209 Merger reserve The merger reserve was created in accordance with the merger relief provisions under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the accounting for business combinations involving the issue of shares at a premium.
Merger relief provided relief from the requirement to create a share premium account in a parent companys balance sheet.
In preparing consolidated financial statements, the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued exceeded their nominal value was recorded within a merger reserve on consolidation, rather than in a share premium account.
This merger reserve was retained upon transition to IFRS, as allowed under UK law.
The merger reserve, which is included in other reserves, was created as a result of the purchase by the Group of interests in two entities.
SIG was purchased on 12 July 2000, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company.
BiB was purchased between 28 June 2001 and 11 November 2002, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company.
Following the Groups disposal of a controlling stake in Sky Bet, the merger reserve in relation to the purchase of SIG has been transferred to retained earnings.
At 30 June 2016, the Groups merger reserve was 125 million 2015: 125 million.
Transactions with non-controlling interests During the year, the Group acquired the remaining 4% minority shareholdings in Sky Deutschland GmbH.
Consideration of 170 million was paid in cash.
An amount of 60 million being the proportional share of the carrying amount of net assets in Sky Deutschland has been transferred from non-controlling interests.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2016 2015 m m Continuing operations Profit before tax 752 1,516 Depreciation, impairment and losses profits on disposal of property, plant and equipment 356 297 Amortisation, impairment and losses profits on disposal of intangible assets 637 469 Share-based payment expense 100 91 Net finance costs 227 275 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments 492 Profit on disposal of associate 299 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 2 28 2,070 1,829 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 204 1 Increase decrease in inventories 2 568 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 137 367 Increase in provisions 83 65 Increase decrease in derivative financial instruments 2 16 Cash generated from operations 2,086 2,080 28.
Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees a Future minimum expenditure contracted for but not recognised in the financial statements Between Total at Total at Less than 1 1 and 5 After 5 30 June 30 June year years years 2016 2015 m m m m m Television programme rights 4,071 10,247 889 15,207 11,281 Set-top boxes and related equipment 470 470 305 1 Third-party payments 279 373 33 685 622 2 Transponder capacity 211 691 191 1,093 1,163 Property, plant and equipment 50 1 51 122 3 Intangible assets 58 67 125 151 3 Smartcards 56 216 272 272 Other 584 698 148 1,430 1,199 5,779 12,293 1,261 19,333 15,115 Foreign currency commitments are translated to pounds sterling at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
1 The third-party payment commitments are in respect of distribution agreements for the television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to retail and commercial subscribers Sky Distributed Channels.
2 Transponder capacity commitments are in respect of capacity that the Group uses for digital transmissions to both retail subscribers and cable operators.
3 Commitments in relation to the provision of smartcards.
Smartcards under development are included within intangible assets.
The amounts included above are the expected ongoing smartcard costs based on forecast customer levels.
b Contingencies and guarantees Certain subsidiaries of the Company have agreed to provide additional funding to several of their investments in limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, in accordance with funding agreements.
Payment of this additional funding would be required if requested by the investees in accordance with the funding agreements.
The maximum potential amount of future payments which may be required to be made by the subsidiaries of the Company to their investments, in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships under the undertakings and additional funding agreements, is 44 million 2015: 8 million.
The Group has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 22.
For an overview of the ongoing investigations and reviews of regulatory and competition matters involving the Group refer to the Regulatory matters section in the Strategic report.
In respect of certain commitments disclosed above, the Company has provided back-to-back guarantees in favour of 21st Century Fox, Inc. in relation to UEFA Champions League and other programming obligations of Sky Italia Srl.
Annual Report 2016 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 30 June are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 66 65 Between one and five years 156 155 After five years 203 190 425 410 The majority of operating leases relate to property.
The rents payable under these leases are subject to renegotiation at the various intervals specified in the leases.
The minimum sub-lease rentals to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 30 June are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Within one year 1 2 1 2 Sub-lease rentals primarily relate to property leases.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders a Entities with joint control or significant influence During the year the Group conducted business transactions with companies that form part of the 21st Century Fox, Inc. group, a major shareholder in the Company.
Transactions with related parties and amounts outstanding in relation to those transactions and with related parties at 30 June are as follows: 2016 2015 m m Supply of goods or services by the Group 45 45 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 398 275 Amounts owed to the Group 20 26 Amounts owed by the Group 182 180 At 30 June 2016 the Group had expenditure commitments of 407 million in relation to transactions with related parties 2015: 590 million which principally related to minimum television programming rights commitments.
Goods and services supplied During the year, the Group supplied programming, airtime, transmission and marketing services to 21st Century Fox, Inc. companies.
Purchases of goods and services and certain other relationships During the year, the Group purchased programming and technical and marketing services from 21st Century Fox, Inc. companies.
On 25 July 2014, the Company announced the placing of 156,132,213 new ordinary shares representing approximately 9.99% of existing issued share capital see note 25.
21st Century Fox, Inc. subscribed for 61,106,496 of these shares so as to maintain its existing percentage shareholding in the Company following the placing.
On 12 November 2014, the Group acquired 100% of Sky Italia Srl and 57.4% of Sky Deutschland AG from 21st Century Fox, Inc.
In addition, the Group repaid the loan that Sky Deutschland AG had outstanding with 21st Century Fox, Inc. of 105 million.
In connection with this, Sky disposed of its 21% stake in the National Geographic channel to 21st Century Fox, Inc. on the same date.
For further details, see note 6.
On 12 June 2015 Sky increased its shareholding in Tour Racing Limited Team Sky as a consequence of the transfer to Sky of a 25% shareholding from 21st Century Fox, Inc..
The shares were purchased for 25, being their par value.
There is an agreement between 21st Century Fox, Inc. and the Group, pursuant to which it was agreed that, for so long as 21st Century Fox, Inc. directly or indirectly holds an interest of 30% or more in the Group, 21st Century Fox, Inc. will not engage in the business of satellite broadcasting in the UK or Ireland.
The sale and purchase agreements for the acquisitions of Sky Italia Srl and Sky Deutschland AG contained certain commitments from 21st Century Fox, Inc. not to retail certain services to consumers in certain territories until 1 January 2017.
The sale and purchase agreement for the National Geographic channel contained undertakings from the Company not to compete with the business of the National Geographic Channel International until 1 January 2017.
Sky plc 118 Financial statements b Joint ventures and associates Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
2016 2015 m m Supply of services by the Group 62 26 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 52 55 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates to the Group 90 89 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates by the Group 14 16 Services supplied are primarily the provision of transponder capacity, marketing, airtime sales and support services.
Purchases represent fees payable for channel carriage.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates include 77 million 2015: 70 million relating to loan funding.
This loan bears interest at a rate of 8.20% 2015: 8.20%.
The maximum amount of loan funding outstanding in total from joint ventures and associates during the year was 77 million 2015: 70 million.
The Group took out a number of forward exchange contracts with counterparty banks during the year on behalf of the joint venture AETN UK.
On the same dates as these forward contracts were entered into, the Group entered into equal and opposite contracts with AETN UK in respect of these forward contracts.
Consequently, the Group was not exposed to any of the net gains or losses on these forward contracts.
The face value of forward exchange contracts with AETN UK that had not matured as at 30 June 2016 was 34 million 2015: 12 million.
During the year, US$27 million 2015: nil was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts, and US$19 million 2015: US$2 million was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, 12 million 2015: 1 million was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts, and 26 million 2015: 3 million was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, 11 million 2015: 3 million was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and nil 2015: nil was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
At 30 June 2016 the Group had minimum expenditure commitments of 3 million 2015: 1 million with its joint ventures and associates.
c Other transactions with related parties The Group has engaged in a number of transactions with companies of which some of the Companys Directors are also directors.
These do not meet the definition of related-party transactions.
d Key management The Group has a related-party relationship with the Directors of the Company.
At 30 June 2016, there were 11 2015: 14 members of key management all of whom were Directors of the Company.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 8b.
Annual Report 2016 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Group investments The Group and its subsidiaries are involved in the operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services, including the provision of broadband and telephone operations.
Certain subsidiary companies provide ancillary functions which support these operations.
Joint ventures and associates are involved in the transmission of specialist channels and online betting activities.
Unless otherwise indicated, all shareholdings owned directly or indirectly by the Company represent 100% of the issued share capital of the subsidiary and the share capital is comprised of ordinary shares.
All entities primarily operate in their country of incorporation.
Subsidiaries: Direct holdings of the Company Sky In-Home Service Limited Sky International Limited Incorporated in the UK Sky International Operations Limited Sky IP International Limited Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD British Sky Broadcasting Group Limited Sky IQ Limited Sky LLU Assets Limited Picnic Limited Sky Finance Europe Limited Sky Mobile Services Limited Sky New Media Ventures Limited Sky Group Finance plc 1 Sky Guarantee Investments Limited Sky News Limited Sky Operational Finance Limited Sky Publications Limited Sky Retail Stores Limited Sky Television Limited Sky UK Limited Sky SNA Limited Sky SNI Limited Incorporated in the Channel Islands Sky SNI Operations Limited Sky Subscribers Services Limited 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG 3 Rainbow Finance Jersey Limited Sky Telecommunications Limited Sky Telecommunications Services Limited Subsidiaries: Sky Ventures Limited Indirect holdings of the Company The Cloud Networks Limited 9,12 Tour Racing Limited 9 Incorporated in the UK Una Tickets Limited Virtuous Systems Limited Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD 365 Media Group Limited 10th Floor, The Met Building, 22 Percy Street, London W1T 2BU Amstrad Limited Apollo Pass Limited Znak Jones Productions Limited 15 Blast!
Films Limited British Sky Broadcasting Limited Incorporated in Germany Potsdamer Platz 1, 10785, Berlin Ciel Bleu 6 Limited Cymru International Limited BSkyB GmbH Dolphin TV Limited Oderstrae 59, 14513 Teltow, Potsdam International Channel Pack Distribution Limited Kidsprog Limited Sky Deutschland Customer Center GmbH 11 Love Productions Limited MEMSTV Limited Eckdrift 109, 19061 Schwerin-Krebsfrden Sky Deutschland Service Center GmbH Multicultural & Ethnic Media Sales Limited Newserge Limited Medienallee 26, 85774 Unterfhring, Munich NOW TV plc Parthenon 1 Limited Premiere WIN Fernsehen GmbH Parthenon 2 Limited SCAS Satellite CA Services GmbH Sky Deutschland GmbH Parthenon Entertainment Limited 2 Parthenon Media Group Limited Sky Deutschland Fernsehen GmbH & Co. KG Sky Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH Rivals Digital Media Limited S. A. T. V. Publishing Limited Sky German Holdings GmbH Sky Hotel Entertainment GmbH Sky Channel Limited Sky Comedy Limited Sky Media GmbH Sky CP Limited Sky Europe Limited Incorporated in Italy Via Monte Penice, 7 20138 Milan Sky Global Media plc 2 Nuova Societ Televisiva Italiana S. r. l Sky Group Limited 2 Sky Healthcare Scheme 2 Limited Sky Italia S. r. l Sky Italian Holdings S. p. A Sky History Limited 2 Sky Holdings Limited Sky Italia Network Services S. r. l 2 Telepi S. r. l Sky Home Communications Limited Sky plc 120 Financial statements 2nd Floor, 27 Mortimer Street, London W1T 3JF 7 DTV Services Limited 20.00% Incorporated in the USA Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle, Delaware, 19801 6th Floor, One London Wall, London EC2Y 5EB 9 1,6 BSkyB US Holdings, Inc. Internet Matters Limited 25.00% 1675 S. State Street, Suite B, Dover, fide 19901 43 Eagle Street, London WC1R 4AT 2,9 8 Callisto Media West, LLC Lovesport Productions Limited 49.99% 2,9 Jupiter Entertainment, LLC 2,9, 13 Jupiter Entertainment Holdings, LLC 17-19 Hawley Crescent, Camden, London NW1 8TT 2,9 8 Jupiter Entertainment North, LLC Nickelodeon UK Limited 40.00% 2,8, 10 Paramount UK Partnership 25.00% 4800 Old Kingston Pike, Suite 2200, Knoxville, TN 37919 2,9 PhotoOps, LLC St Albans House, 57-59 Haymarket, London SW1Y 4QX 9 Odeon and Sky Filmworks Limited 50.00% 4318 Conifer Lane, Juneau, AK 99801 2,9 Wild West Alaska, LLC 10-14 Accommodation Road, London NW11 8ED Sugar Films Limited 24.90% 1925 Century Park East, 22nd Floor, Los Angeles CA 90067-90071 2,6 Baking Show, LLC 15 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5GL 2,6 Love American Journeys, LLC Venture 2009 Limited 50.00% 2,6 Love Baking, LLC 2,6 Love Productions USA, Inc Incorporated in other overseas countries Shareholding 2,6 Love Sewing, LLC Channel Islands 1 Waverley Place, Union Street, St Helier, Jersey JE1 1SG 2,6 5 USA Love Development, LLC Cyan Blue Topco Limited 20.06% 1801 Century Park East, #2160, Los Angeles CA 90067 Australia 5 Thomas Holt Drive, Macquarie Park, NSW, 2113 2,14 ZJTV LLC Australian News Channel Pty Limited 33.33% Incorporated in other overseas countries USA 874 Walker Rd, Suite C, Dover, fide 19904 2,8 Austria Schnbrunner Strae 297 2 A-1120 Wien Talos Films, LLC Membership interest Sky sterreich Fernsehen GmbH 25.00% Sky sterreich Verwaltung GmbH UAE PO Box 77845, Abu Dhabi Belgium Boulevard Charlemagne 1, 1041 Brussels Sky News Arabia FZ-LLC 50.00% Sky Channel SA 1 This entity is limited by guarantee and so does not have issued share capital.
Hong Kong Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East 2 These entities do not have issued share capital and Skys investment instead Sky Manufacturing Services Limited comprises of a membership, partnership or quota interest, according to the legal form of the company.
3 This entity has also issued preference shares.
Ireland Fifth Floor, One Burlington Plaza, Burlington Road, Dublin 4 4 This entity has also issued recoupment shares.
5 This entity has also issued contingent value shares.
Sky Ireland Limited 6 These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 March.
7 This entity has an accounting reference date of 31 May.
Switzerland Stockerhof, Dreiknigstrasse 31A, CH8002 Zrich 8 These entities have an accounting reference date of 30 September.
9 These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
Sky International AG 10 The Paramount UK Partnership is a joint venture of the Group and is included within the consolidated accounts in accordance with Note 1 c ii.
Consequently, the Paramount UK Partnership has taken advantage of the exemption within the Joint ventures and associates: Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 regulation 7 from filing annual financial statements.
Incorporated in the UK Shareholding 11 Sky owns 70.40% of the issued share capital of this entity.
Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD 12 Sky owns 85.00% of the issued share capital of this entity.
13 Sky owns 60.00% of the issued share capital of this entity.
AETN UK 50.00% 14 Sky owns 51.00% of the issued share capital of this entity.
15 Sky owns 51.50% of the issued share capital of this entity.
Millbank Tower, 21-24 Millbank, London SW1P 4QP 4,9 The following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit Attheraces Holdings Limited 48.35% of individual accounts for the year period ended 30 June 2016 by virtue of section 479A of the Companies Act 2006: Kidsprog Limited 02767224, Parthenon Media 15 Bedford Street, London WC2E 9HE Group Limited 06944197, S. A. T. V. Publishing Limited 01085975, Sky Finance Europe 6 Bolt Pro Tem Limited 33.33% Limited 09446689, Sky IP International Limited 07245844, Sky Operational Finance Limited 02906994 and Sky Television Limited 01518707.
Brook Green House, 4 Rowan Road, London W6 7DU 6 Colossus Productions Limited 20.00% Annual Report 2016 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Sky plc company only financial statements Company Income Statement for the year ended 30 June 2016 2016 2015 Notes m m Revenue 219 229 Operating expense 51 97 Operating profit 168 132 Dividend income from subsidiaries O 671 510 Investment income B 174 131 Finance costs B 183 201 Profit before tax C 830 572 Taxation D 31 24 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 799 548 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this income statement.
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 June 2016 2016 2015 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 799 548 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity that may subsequently be recycled to the income statement Gain on cash flow hedges 357 76 Tax on cash flow hedges 71 16 286 60 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Gain on cash flow hedges 358 113 Tax on cash flow hedges 71 23 287 90 Other comprehensive loss for the year net of tax 1 30 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 798 518 All results relate to continuing operations.
Sky plc 122 Financial statements Company Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2016 2016 2015 Notes m m Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries E 9,523 9,517 Other receivables G 5 6 Derivative financial assets J 799 358 Deferred tax assets F 1 10,327 9,882 Current assets Other receivables G 9,020 7,859 Cash and cash equivalents Derivative financial assets J 55 9,020 7,914 Total assets 19,347 17,796 Current liabilities Other payables I 3,431 3,479 Derivative financial liabilities J 55 3,431 3,534 Non-current liabilities Borrowings H 8,182 6,723 Derivative financial liabilities J 133 74 8,315 6,797 Total liabilities 11,746 10,331 Share capital L 860 860 Share premium L 2,704 2,704 Reserves 4,037 3,901 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders 7,601 7,465 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 19,347 17,796 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
These financial statements of Sky plc, registered number 02247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors on 27 July 2016 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Annual Report 2016 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Sky plc company only financial statements continued Company Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2016 2016 2015 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations M Net cash from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the exercise of share options 10 10 Loan to subsidiaries 10 11 Net cash used in financing activities 1 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year The accompanying notes are an integral part of this cash flow statement.
Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 June 2016 Capital Total Share Share Special redemption Capital ESOP Hedging Retained Shareholders capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2014 781 1,437 14 190 844 145 1 2,880 6,002 Profit for the year 548 548 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 37 37 Tax on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 7 7 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 30 548 518 Share-based payment 20 69 89 Reversal of financial liability for close period purchases 59 59 Issue of own equity shares 79 1,267 1,346 Dividends 549 549 At 30 June 2015 860 2,704 14 190 844 125 29 3,007 7,465 Profit for the year 799 799 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 1 1 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 1 799 798 Share-based payment 98 98 Dividends 564 564 At 30 June 2016 860 2,704 14 190 844 125 30 3,144 7,601 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note L. The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of changes in equity.
Accounting policies Sky plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales.
i Basis of preparation The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, consistent with the accounting policies set out in note 1 of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
ii Revenue Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit from the Companys operating activities.
The Companys main source of revenue is from licensing the Companys brand name asset to subsidiaries.
This revenue is recognised on an accruals basis under the terms of relevant licensing agreements.
iii Investment in subsidiaries An investment in a subsidiary is recognised at cost less any provision for impairment.
As permitted by section 133 of the Companies Act 2006, where the relief afforded under section 131 of the Companies Act 2006 applies, cost is the aggregate of the nominal value of the relevant number of the Companys shares and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the share capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
Investment income and finance costs 2016 2015 m m Investment income Investment income from subsidiaries 172 130 Interest on other loans and receivables with related parties 2 1 174 131 2016 2015 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges Facility related costs 3 33 Guaranteed Notes see note H 191 168 194 201 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 723 462 Foreign exchange gain loss arising on loan with subsidiaries 735 462 Gain loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 14 19 Loss gain arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 15 19 11 183 201 In the prior year finance costs included 50 million incurred in connection with 6.6 billion of firm underwritten debt facilities and other associated transaction costs relating to the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
These facilities, including the previous RCF, were repaid or cancelled in the prior year with the exception of the 1 billion revolving credit facility RCF, which remains undrawn.
C. Profit before taxation Employee benefits The Company had no employees 2015: none during the year.
Key management compensation Amounts paid to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 49 to 63.
D. Taxation i Taxation recognised in the income statement 2016 2015 m m Current tax expense Current year 30 22 Total current tax charge 30 22 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1 2 Total deferred tax charge 1 2 Taxation 31 24 ii Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 2016 2015 m m Deferred tax credit on hedging activities 7 iii Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2015: lower than the expense that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation tax in the UK 20.0% applied to profit before tax.
The differences are explained below: 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 830 572 Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.0% 2015: 20.75% 166 119 Effects of: Non-taxable income 135 106 Non-deductible expenditure 11 Taxation 31 24 All taxation relates to UK corporation tax.
Annual Report 2016 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Sky plc company only financial statements continued E. Investments in subsidiaries m Cost At 1 July 2014 9,151 Additions 1,371 At 30 June 2015 10,522 Additions 6 At 30 June 2016 10,528 Provision At 1 July 2014, 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2016 1,005 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2014 8,146 At 30 June 2015 9,517 At 30 June 2016 9,523 See note 31 for a list of the Companys investments.
F. Deferred tax Recognised deferred tax assets liabilities Financial instruments temporary differences m At 1 July 2014 4 Charge to income 2 Credit to other comprehensive income 7 At 30 June 2015 1 Charge to income 1 At 30 June 2016 At 30 June 2016 a deferred tax asset of 232 million 2015: 244 million has not been recognised in respect of gross capital losses of 1,223 million 2015: 1,220 million related to the Groups holding in KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2016, the Company has also not recognised a deferred tax asset of 1 million 2015: 1 million relating to gross capital losses and provisions of 5 million 2015: 5 million in respect of football club investments, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
G. Other receivables 2016 2015 m m Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 9,018 7,859 Prepayments and other receivables 2 Current other receivables 9,020 7,859 Non-current prepayment 5 6 Total other receivables 9,025 7,865 On 17 November 2015, the Company made a loan of 356 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
This loan bears interest at 3.721% and is repayable on demand.
On 1 April 2015, the Company made a loan of 600 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
This loan bears interest at 3 month EURIBOR plus 0.75% and is repayable on demand.
On 27 November 2014, the Company made a loan of 400 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
This loan bears interest at 2.750% and is repayable on demand.
On 24 November 2014, the Company made loans of 200 million, 450 million, 850 million and 126 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
These loans bear interest at a rate of 4.000%, LIBOR plus 1.230%, 1.875% and 2.940% respectively, and are repayable on demand.
On 16 September 2014, the Company made loans of 969 million and 582 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
These loans bear interest at 2.187% and EURIBOR plus 0.656% respectively, and are repayable on demand.
On 15 September 2014, the Company made loans of 1,500 million and 1,000 million to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
These loans bear interest at 1.500% and 2.500% respectively, and are repayable on demand.
On 26 November 2012, the Company issued US$800 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 3.125% and loaned proceeds to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
Sky Operational Finance Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
On 24 November 2008, the Company issued US$600 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 9.500% and loaned the proceeds to Sky Operational Finance Limited.
Sky plc 126 Financial statements On 15 February 2008, the Company issued US$750 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 6.100% and loaned the proceeds to Sky UK Limited.
Sky UK Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
All other amounts receivable from subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and are also repayable on demand.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other receivables approximates their fair values.
The Companys credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables.
The majority of its other receivables balance is due from Sky Operational Finance Limited and Sky UK Limited.
The risk of these entities defaulting on amounts owed is considered low due to Sky Operational Finance Limited being a conduit to pass through intercompany financing and due to Sky UK Limiteds successful operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland.
H. Borrowings 2016 2015 m m Non-current borrowings US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 559 474 US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 435 372 US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 576 477 600 million of Guaranteed Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 499 425 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 470 445 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,243 1,058 US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 597 504 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 705 602 US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 933 787 500 million of 2.250% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2025 414 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 828 705 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 296 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 297 297 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 330 281 8,182 6,723 At 30 June 2016, the Company had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 450 450 3m LIBOR 1.230% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 503 503 3.226% 500 million of 2.250% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2025 356 356 3.721% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 200 200 4.000% 2,585 1,909 676 Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 581 581 3m EURIBOR 0.656% 600 million of Guaranteed Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 600 600 3m EURIBOR 0.750% 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,500 1,500 1.500% 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 850 850 1.875% US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 969 969 2.187% 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 1,000 1,000 2.500% 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 126 126 2.943% 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 400 400 2.750% 6,026 4,845 1,181 Annual Report 2016 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Sky plc company only financial statements continued At 30 June 2015, the Company had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% 450 million of 2.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2020 450 450 3m LIBOR 1.230% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 503 503 3.226% 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 200 200 4.000% 2,229 1,553 676 Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 2.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2019 581 581 3m EURIBOR 0.656% 600 million of Guaranteed Floating Rate Notes repayable in April 2020 600 600 3m EURIBOR 0.750% 1,500 million of 1.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2021 1,500 1,500 1.500% 850 million of 1.875% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2023 850 850 1.875% US$1,250 million of 3.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2024 969 969 2.187% 1,000 million of 2.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in September 2026 1,000 1,000 2.500% 300 million of 4.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 126 126 2.943% 400 million of 2.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2029 400 400 2.750% 6,026 4,845 1,181 I.
Other payables 2016 2015 m m Other payables Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,325 3,394 Accruals 106 85 3,431 3,479 Amounts payable to subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The balance comprises 2,164 million of non-interest bearing loans 2015: 2,164 million and 1,161 million of other payables 2015: 1,230 million.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other payables approximates their fair values.
J. Derivatives and other financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison of the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the Companys financial assets and financial liabilities at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2015: 2016 2016 2015 2015 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Financial assets and liabilities held or issued to finance the Companys operations Quoted bond debt 8,182 8,682 6,723 6,903 Derivative financial instruments 666 666 284 284 Other payables and receivables 5,587 5,587 4,380 4,380 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as detailed in note 23 and all items held at fair value are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, with the exception of our quoted bond debt which is determined with reference to quoted market prices based on Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Sky plc 128 Financial statements Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
2016 2015 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 74 1,029 48 939 Cross-currency swaps 120 466 19 466 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 445 1,924 88 1,065 12 503 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps 5 50 12 310 14 336 14 596 Cross-currency swaps 155 629 121 1,483 244 2,065 103 1,017 Total 799 4,098 133 1,793 413 4,871 129 2,116 Note 23 provides further details of the Groups derivative and other financial instruments.
The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is shown below: 2016 2015 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 55 55 Between one and two years 198 5 Between two and five years 233 30 211 34 In more than five years 368 98 147 40 Total 799 133 413 129 K. Financial risk management Interest rate and foreign exchange risk management The Company manages its exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements, which arise from the Companys sources of finance by selectively entering into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure.
The Company has also entered into derivative contracts on behalf of its subsidiary Sky Group Finance plc, and has back-to-back intercompany contracts.
Foreign exchange risk The following analysis details the Companys sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling against all currencies in which it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have an adverse impact on profit of 10 million 2015: adverse impact of 13 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 68 million 2015: adverse impact of 39 million.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have a beneficial impact on profit of 17 million 2015: beneficial impact of 21 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 113 million 2015: beneficial impact of 65 million.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the euro would have a beneficial impact on profit by 38 million 2015: beneficial impact of 17 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuations of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 16 million 2015: nil.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the euro would have an adverse impact on profit of 63 million 2015: adverse impact of 28 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 27 million 2015: nil.
Annual Report 2016 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Sky plc company only financial statements continued K. Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at 30 June 2016, and if all other variables were held constant, the Companys profit for the year ended 30 June 2016 would decrease or increase by 10 million 2015: decrease or increase by 18 million and other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 26 million 2015: decrease or increase by 6 million.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Company.
In addition, the Companys actual exposure to market rates changes as the Companys portfolio of debt changes.
Liquidity risk See note 24 for the Companys policy on liquidity management.
The following table analyses the Companys non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled interest rate swaps and gross settled currency swaps and collars into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2016 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 145 708 1,206 1,691 Bonds GBP 43 43 579 816 Bonds EUR 73 74 719 3,855 Other payables 3,431 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 22 22 25 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 154 931 1,662 3,542 Inflow 194 757 1,861 3,889 Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2015 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 122 122 1,572 1,474 Bonds GBP 43 43 129 1,309 Bonds EUR 57 55 595 2,948 Other payables 3,479 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 22 21 37 9 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 1,058 141 1,991 3,147 Inflow 1,083 166 2,192 3,147 At 30 June 2016, the Company had an undrawn 1,000 million RCF with a maturity date of 30 November 2021.
See note 22 for further information.
Sky plc 130 Financial statements L. Notes to the Company statement of changes in equity For details of share capital, share premium, the special reserve, the capital redemption reserve and the hedging reserve, see notes 25 and 26.
For details of dividends, see note 11.
Capital reserve This reserve arose from the surplus on the transfer of trade and assets to a subsidiary undertaking.
M. Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2016 2015 m m Profit before tax 830 572 Dividend income 671 510 Net finance costs 9 70 Increase in other receivables 168 132 Cash generated from operations N. Contingent liabilities and guarantees The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have undertaken, in the normal course of business, to provide support to several of the Groups investments in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, to meet their liabilities as they fall due.
Several of these undertakings contain maximum financial limits.
These undertakings have been given for at least one year from the date of the signing of the UK statutory accounts of the related entity.
A payment under these undertakings would be required in the event of an investment being unable to pay its liabilities.
The Company has provided parent company guarantees in respect of the various contracts entered into with the Premier League by Sky UK Limited and Sky Italia Srl covering the 2016 17 to 2018 19 football seasons.
In each case the guarantee covers all payment obligations now or in the future due, owing or incurred by Sky UK Limited under the contracts and all liabilities now or in the future arising or incurred under the indemnity given to the Premier League by Sky UK Limited and Sky Italia Srl under the contracts.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee to UEFA in respect of a media rights agreement entered into by Sky Italia Srl in relation to the UEFA Euro 2016 football championship.
The guarantee covers all payment obligations by Sky Italia Srl under the agreement.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee to Warburg-HIH Invest Real Estate GmbH in respect of a rental agreement entered into by Sky Deutschland GmbH.
The guarantee covers all payment obligations by Sky Deutschland GmbH under the agreement.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee in respect of the contract entered into with Sky UK Limited and Stanhope plc in relation to the construction of a new corporate headquarters at the Osterley campus.
The guarantee covers all performance obligations and payment obligations imposed on Sky UK Limited under that contract.
The Company has provided a back-to-back guarantee in favour of 21st Century Fox, Inc. of up to half of the annual payment obligations of Sky Deutschland Fernsehen GmbH & Co. KG under the 2013 17 Bundesliga agreement.
It has also provided back-to-back guarantees in favour of 21st Century Fox, Inc. in relation to UEFA Champions League and other programming obligations of Sky Italia Srl.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee to SGH Stream Sub, Inc. in respect of the obligations of Sky Italian Holdings S. p. A. under the Sky Italia Srl Sale and Purchase Agreement dated 25 July 2014.
The Company has also provided a parent company guarantee to 21st Century Fox Adelaide Holdings BV in respect of the obligations of Sky German Holdings GmbH under the Sky Deutschland AG Sale and Purchase Agreement dated 25 July 2014.
The Company has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 22, and in relation to audit exemptions, see note 31.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders 2016 2015 m m Supply of services to subsidiaries 219 229 Interest received from funding to subsidiaries 172 130 Interest on other loans and receivables with related parties 2 1 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 9,018 7,859 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 3,325 3,394 The Company has related-party transactions with its subsidiaries by virtue of its status as parent company of the Group.
In particular, it is normal treasury practice for the Company to lend and borrow cash to and from its subsidiaries as required.
Under this policy, Sky UK Limited settled liabilities of 106 million and 108 million 2015: 130 million and 17 million on behalf of the Company during the year.
Interest is earned on certain loans to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised 219 million 2015: 229 million for licensing the Sky brand name to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised dividends during the year from subsidiaries totalling 671 million 2015: 510 million.
The Groups related-party transactions are disclosed in note 30.
