STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 3.
Accounting policies continued Standards and interpretations issued but not yet applied The following new and amended standards and interpretations in issue are applicable to the Group but not yet effective and have not been applied by the Group: Effective date Amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Changes in Financing Liabilities 1 January 2017 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle 1 January 2017 18 IAS 12 Income taxes Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised losses 1 January 2017 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Clarification to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IASB IFRIC standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement mechanism.
In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement restricts the Groups discretion to early adopt standards.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, these standards and interpretation have not yet been endorsed or adopted by the EU.
The Directors do not expect the adoption of these standards and interpretations to have a material impact on the Consolidated or Parent Company financial statements in the period of initial application, except for IFRS 16 Leases.
The impact of this standard will be evaluated during 2017.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted.
The standard establishes a five-step principle-based approach for revenue recognition and is based on the concept of recognising an amount that reflects the consideration for performance obligations only when they are satisfied and the control of goods or services is transferred.
It applies to all contracts with customers, except those in the scope of other standards.
It replaces the separate models or goods, services and construction contracts under the current accounting standards.
During 2016, the Group performed a preliminary assessment of IFRS 15 and concluded that the adoption of IFRS 15 will have a minimal impact on its consolidated results.
The Group is in the business of providing healthcare services.
Approximately 70% of the Groups revenue is derived from in-patient and daycase admissions which are billed as an integrated service.
In addition, services are typically provided over a short time frame, that is, one to three days.
Out-patient cases, which generally do not involve surgical procedures, are billed at an individual component basis when performance obligations are satisfied.
Similarly, other revenue, which includes consultant revenue and other third-party revenue streams, is recognised when performance obligations are satisfied and the control of goods or services is transferred.
Significant judgements and estimates In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements and estimates about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The following accounting policies have been identified as involving particularly complex judgements or subjective estimates: Judgements Deferred tax Deferred tax assets are recognised for unutilised trading losses and capital losses.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable income will be available in future against which they can be utilised.
Future taxable profits are estimated based on business plans which include estimates and assumptions regarding economic growth, interest, inflation rates and taxation rates.
Leases In the determination of the classification of a number of leases over hospital properties as operating leases, assumptions have been made about the discount rate applied to the annual rent payable over the remainder of the lease term compared against their respective fair values and of the useful economic life of the hospitals.
Further information about commitments under these leases is given in note 27.
Exceptional items Judgements are required as to whether items that are material in size, unusual or infrequent in nature should be disclosed as exceptional.
Deciding which items meet this definition requires the Group to exercise its judgement.
Details of these items categorised as exceptional are outlined in note 8.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 113
