Strategic Report How and where we operate ENGINEERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE THROUGH OUR BREADTH OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES... How we are organised We comprise two world-leading engineering businesses: Spirax Sarco for steam specialties and Watson-Marlow for niche peristaltic pumps and associated fluid path technologies.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Fluid Technology Group Spirax Sarco is the global leader in the supply of Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group specialises engineered solutions for the design, maintenance in the design and manufacture of world-leading and provision of efficient industrial and commercial niche peristaltic pumps and associated fluid steam systems.
The Spirax Sarco offering is very wide, from single Our pumps are ideally suited for a wide variety products through to complete turnkey bespoke of applications from biotechnology processes packages that can include design, fabrication, that demand sterility and precision to highly commissioning and maintenance.
Our products corrosive slurries typically seen in precious metal and services help our end users to improve processing.
The Watson-Marlow group comprises operational efficiency, maintain product quality, ten established brands, each with its own area of reduce energy and water use, and comply with expertise, but together offering our customers an health, safety and environmental legislation.
unrivalled breadth of pumping solutions.
For more information visit: Read more on pages 10-11.
For more information visit: Read more on pages 12-13. www.
com Revenue m Adjusted operating profit m Revenue m Adjusted operating profit m 26% 33% 563.5m 129.1m 193.9m 64.3m 74% 67% Before corporate expenses of Before corporate expenses of 12.8 million.
We operate in a diverse portfolio of industrial sectors with revenue streams balanced across all key global economies.
4 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information... AND OUR WIDE GEOGRAPHIC REACH 87 operating units in 44 countries Summary Expanding our business in 2016: Direct sales presence in 58 countries and on six continents Three new start-ups trading Operating companies, branches and Associate.
Two acquisitions Global operations at the time of publication, March 2017.
Four operating units began trading after 31st December 2016: Spirax Sarco East Africa Kenya, Watson-Marlow Indonesia, Watson-Marlow Thailand and Watson-Marlow Vietnam, One office established to support 3rd and a direct sales presence was established in Greece in January 2017. party distribution In December 2016, a In December 2016, a newly newly established Watsonestablished Watson-Marlow Fluid Marlow Fluid Technology Technology Group operating Group operating company company began trading in Canada.
In January 2016, a newly began trading in Ireland.
established Spirax Sarco operating company began trading in Vietnam.
In November 2016 we acquired Aflex Hose Ltd and its subsidiary Aflex Hose USA LLC, which specialise in the design and manufacture of PTFE-lined flexible hoses for the Pharmaceutical, In July 2016 we purchased the Food, Chemical and assets of a Brazilian process Automotive industries.
Hiter Controls Engenharia Ltda commenced trading in the third quarter of 2016.
Map key Spirax Sarco operating unit In February 2016, a Watson-Marlow Fluid Spirax Sarco direct Technology Group office sales presence was established in the UAE to support local 3rd Watson-Marlow operating unit party distribution.
Watson-Marlow direct sales presence Our core products and services Steam products Engineering consultancy Pumps and fluid path technology Key facts 5,300 3,500 100,000 employees product lines customers 4 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 5
