FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Property, plant and equipment continued On 31 August 2016, as a result of the development of a new hospital facility in Manchester and the closure of the previous Spire Manchester Hospital previously held under an operating lease, the freehold interest in Spire Wirral Hospital with a net book value of 11.5 million was disposed of, and leased back in a sale and leaseback transaction.
The consideration for the sale was realised in the form of a non-cash asset, being the freehold of the previous Spire Manchester Hospital, which was simultaneously acquired by the Group the Asset Swap Transaction.
The reversal of the impairment in 2016 is the result of the reassessment of the lives of medical and other equipment following the relocation of the assets from the previous Spire Manchester Hospital to the new hospital facility and other Group hospitals following its closure.
As at 31 December 2016, included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment above is 21.7 million 2015: 22.5 million relating to assets held under finance leases on which there was a depreciation charge of 1.2 million in the year 2015: 1.1 million.
Also included in property, plant and equipment with a net book value of 4.0 million 2015: nil is the freehold of the previous Spire Manchester Hospital which has been retired from active use.
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 December 2016 was 1.8 million 2015: 0.3 million.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 3.5% 2015: 3.6% which is calculated on a weighted cost of borrowing.
Subsidiary undertakings As at 31 December 2016, these Consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the Company and the following companies, most of which are incorporated in, and whose operations are conducted in, the United Kingdom.
120 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 17.
Subsidiary undertakings continued Incorporated in England and Wales and registered at 3 Dorset Rise, London EC4Y 8EN, unless otherwise stated Principal activity Class of share Classic Hospitals Group Limited Holding company Ordinary Classic Hospitals Limited Non-trading company Ordinary Classic Hospitals Property Limited Property company Ordinary Fox Healthcare Acquisitions Limited Leasing company Ordinary Fox Healthcare Holdco 2 Limited Holding company Ordinary Lifescan Limited Non-trading company Ordinary # Links Bidco S. r. l. Propco 8 Property company Ordinary Medicainsure Limited Holding company Ordinary Montefiore House Limited Health provision Ordinary SHC Holdings Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Cambridge Disposal Limited Non-trading company Ordinary Spire Fertility Disposal Limited Non-trading company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Holdings Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Finance Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Group UK Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Holdings 1 Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Holdings 2 Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Holdings 3 Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Limited Health provision Ordinary Spire Healthcare Properties Limited Hospital leasing Ordinary Spire Healthcare Property Developments Limited formerly Spire St Anthonys Property Limited Development company Ordinary Spire Links 2 Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Property 1 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 2 Limited Non-trading company Ordinary Spire Property 4 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 5 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 6 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 13 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 16 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 17 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 18 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 19 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 23 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Thames Valley Hospital BVI Property Holdings Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Thames Valley Hospital Limited Non-trading company Ordinary Spire Thames Valley Hospital Propco Limited Property company Ordinary Spire UK Holdco 2A Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire UK Holdco 4 Limited Holding company Ordinary Direct shareholding of the Company.
Incorporated in the British Virgin Islands BVI and registered at Harneys Corporate and Trust Services Limited, Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, VG1110, BVI.
# incorporated in Luxembourg and registered at 2 Boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-1115 Luxembourg.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 121
