FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Significant judgements and estimates continued Estimates Deferred tax The Group owns a portfolio of freehold and leasehold property interests.
In previous years, the Group had recognised a deferred tax liability in its financial statements in respect of capital gains tax and other taxes based on the assumption that a proportion of the freehold properties would have been disposed of in future years, whilst the remaining properties were realised through use.
This calculation previously required judgement about the timing and number of the related property disposals, which was potentially impacted by changes to plans made by the business over time and, in particular, changes in business plans in respect of the holding or disposing of properties.
During the year, the Group considered it to be appropriate to reassess the basis for calculating deferred tax on the property portfolio and has now based the assessment on solely held-in-use basis.
This gives rise to a material tax charge of 8.4 million refer to notes 12 and 23.
Estimation of useful lives and residual values Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their useful lives, taking into account residual values, where appropriate.
The actual lives of the assets and residual values are assessed annually and may vary depending on a number of factors.
In reassessing asset lives, factors such as technological innovation, product life cycles and maintenance programmes are taken into account.
The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are set out in note 3.
Goodwill Goodwill is considered for impairment at least annually or more frequently if there is an indication that goodwill may be impaired.
This is achieved by comparing the value-in-use of the goodwill with its carrying value in the accounts.
The value-in-use calculations require the Group to estimate future cash flows expected to arise in the future, taking into account market conditions.
The present value of these cash flows is determined using an appropriate discount rate.
The assumptions considered to be most critical in reviewing goodwill for impairment are contained in note 15.
Share-based payments At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The assumptions considered to be most critical in estimating share-based payments are contained in note 26.
Provisions for patient claims In the measurement of such provisions where the recognition criteria are met, the typical complexity of claims for example, in respect of their outcome and the extent of damages if any assessed on the Group requires management to use estimation.
Such estimates are typically based on professional advice on expected outcomes and historic information on similar claims.
In some cases, judgement is also required, for example, as to whether the criteria for recognising provisions are met and whether a reliable estimate of the outcomes can be made.
Further details of claims and the amounts provided are given in note 22.
Operating profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : million 2016 2015 Rent of land and buildings under operating leases 62.7 62.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 51.9 48.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.5 11.2 Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment 1.9 Write-off of intangible assets 1.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 10.8 0.8 Staff costs see note 7 268.0 253.0 Impairment losses and reversals of impairment are included in other operating costs.
114 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
