STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Spire Healthcare Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group owns and operates private hospitals and clinics in the UK and provides a range of private healthcare services.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 1 March 2017.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange, incorporated, registered and domiciled in England registered number: 9084066.
The address of its registered office is 3 Dorset Rise, London, EC4Y 8EN.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and on an historical cost basis.
Going concern The Group is financed by a bank loan facility that matures in 2019.
The Directors have considered the Groups forecasts and projections, and the risks associated with their delivery, and are satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the covenants imposed by the bank loan facility for the foreseeable future.
In relation to available cash resources, the Directors have had regard to both cash at bank and a 100.0 million committed undrawn revolving credit facility.
Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Accounting policies Significant accounting policies applied The principal accounting policies adopted are described below and were consistently applied for all periods presented.
Revenue recognition The Group derives its revenue primarily from providing private healthcare services to both the public sector and private patients in the UK.
Revenue from charges to patients is recognised when the treatment is provided.
Interest income Interest is recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
Cost of sales Cost of sales principally comprises salaries of clinical staff, consultant and clinical fees, medical services and inventories, including drugs, consumables and prostheses.
Other operating costs Other operating costs mainly comprise non-clinical staff costs, rent associated with properties leased under operating leases, depreciation, maintenance and running costs of properties and equipment.
It also includes administrative expenses, including the provision of central support services, IT and other administrative costs.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit arising from the normal, recurring operations of the business and after charging exceptional items, as defined below.
Operating profit is adjusted to exclude exceptional and other items to calculate the Key Performance Indicator Operating profit before exceptional items, which is utilised in measuring performance before the impact of non-recurring exceptional items in the income statement.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, either individually or in aggregate, need to be disclosed separately to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Items which may be considered exceptional in nature include significant write-downs of goodwill and other assets, restructuring costs, impairments, hospital closures and set-up costs and business acquisition costs.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 109
