FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Our prior year auditors report also included details of a one-off impairment charge recorded against the leasehold improvements and equipment held at the old Spire Manchester Hospital site which was closed in December 2016.
In August 2016, the Group completed a transaction to obtain the freehold of the closing hospital site in exchange for the freehold of the Spire Murrayfield Hospital Wirral site the Asset Swap Transaction.
As part of the transaction, the impairment charge was partially reversed, and we no longer consider this to be an area of significant risk or audit focus.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we identified the subsidiaries which represent the principal business units within the Group.
The Group continues to operate solely in the UK.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of four 2015: four entities full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For a further 19 2015: 16 entities specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that entity that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the Group financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The entities for which we performed audit procedures accounted for 100% 2015: 100% of the Groups revenue and 100% 2015: 99% of the Groups total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 88% 2015: 97% of the Groups revenue and 69% 2015: 62% of the Groups total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 12% 2015: 3% of the Groups revenue and 31% 2015: 37% of the Groups total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but has contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
It is not possible to present the split between full and specific scope components on a profit before tax basis in a meaningful way as intra-group profits earned in certain specific scope components results in the aggregate of profit before tax at the component level being marginally in excess of 100% of Group profit before tax.
For the remaining 16 non-dormant entities we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of the clerical accuracy of the consolidation to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed.
Group revenue % Group total assets % Full Full scope scope 12 S pecific S pecific 31 scope scope 69 88 The audit of the entities within the Group is undertaken by one audit team which is led by the senior statutory auditor.
There have not been any significant changes to the scope of our audit from the prior year.
100 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
