STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
4.1 millon Profit Tolerance before tax 74.1m for potential undetected misstatements New hospital Tolerance for 3.1 millon set-up costs 1.0m uncorrected misstatements Materiality Net loss on Asset Swap 100% Transaction 7.5m Performance materiality Adjusted profit 75% before tax 82.6m Uncorrected Materiality 5% of adjusted misstatements profit before tax 4.1m 5% 0.2 millon reporting threshold Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.1 million 2015: 3.7 million, which is 5% of adjusted profit before tax 2015: 5% of profit before tax.
We have adjusted profit before tax for certain non-recurring exceptional items in order to calculate materiality on a basis which reflects the underlying performance of the Group.
We believe this provides us with the most applicable measurement basis for the users of the financial statements.
Adjustment was made for costs incurred in 2016 in relation to the opening of two new hospitals in 2017 1.0 million, and the net loss on the Asset Swap Transaction 7.5 million.
Last year Group materiality was based on an unadjusted profit before tax.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2015: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 3.1 million 2015: 2.8 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our assessment of the overall control environment and the history of no or very few audit adjustments.
Audit work on subsidiaries for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each entity is based on the relative size and risk of the entity in relation to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement arising in that entity.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to subsidiary entities was 0.5 million to 2.8 million 2015: 0.6 million to 2.8 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2015: 0.2 million, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 101
