STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Spire Healthcare Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group owns and operates private hospitals and clinics in the UK and provides a range of private healthcare services.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 1 March 2017.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange, incorporated, registered and domiciled in England registered number: 9084066.
The address of its registered office is 3 Dorset Rise, London, EC4Y 8EN.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and on an historical cost basis.
Going concern The Group is financed by a bank loan facility that matures in 2019.
The Directors have considered the Groups forecasts and projections, and the risks associated with their delivery, and are satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the covenants imposed by the bank loan facility for the foreseeable future.
In relation to available cash resources, the Directors have had regard to both cash at bank and a 100.0 million committed undrawn revolving credit facility.
Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Accounting policies Significant accounting policies applied The principal accounting policies adopted are described below and were consistently applied for all periods presented.
Revenue recognition The Group derives its revenue primarily from providing private healthcare services to both the public sector and private patients in the UK.
Revenue from charges to patients is recognised when the treatment is provided.
Interest income Interest is recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
Cost of sales Cost of sales principally comprises salaries of clinical staff, consultant and clinical fees, medical services and inventories, including drugs, consumables and prostheses.
Other operating costs Other operating costs mainly comprise non-clinical staff costs, rent associated with properties leased under operating leases, depreciation, maintenance and running costs of properties and equipment.
It also includes administrative expenses, including the provision of central support services, IT and other administrative costs.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit arising from the normal, recurring operations of the business and after charging exceptional items, as defined below.
Operating profit is adjusted to exclude exceptional and other items to calculate the Key Performance Indicator Operating profit before exceptional items, which is utilised in measuring performance before the impact of non-recurring exceptional items in the income statement.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, either individually or in aggregate, need to be disclosed separately to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Items which may be considered exceptional in nature include significant write-downs of goodwill and other assets, restructuring costs, impairments, hospital closures and set-up costs and business acquisition costs.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Consolidation The results of all subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The Employee Benefit Trust EBT is treated as an extension of the Group and the Company.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in other operating costs.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of acquired businesses at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there is an indication that the value of the goodwill may be impaired.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Major projects are treated as assets in the course of construction until completed when they are transferred to the appropriate asset class.
No depreciation is charged on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
Other assets are depreciated so as to write off the carrying amounts of the assets, less their estimated residual values, over their expected useful lives, as follows: Freehold buildings and improvements 5 to 50 years Leasehold buildings and improvements lower of unexpired lease term or expected life, with a maximum of 35 years Plant and machinery 5 to 10 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years The expected useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually and revised as appropriate.
The review of the asset lives and residual values of properties takes into consideration the plans of the business and levels of expenditure incurred on an ongoing basis to maintain the properties in a fit and proper state for their ongoing use as hospitals.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost means purchase price, less trade discounts, calculated on an average basis.
Net realisable value means estimated selling price, less trade discounts, and less all costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The Group holds consignment stock on sale or return.
The Group is only required to pay for the equipment it chooses to use and therefore this stock is not recognised as an asset.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the statement of cash flows.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost on an effective interest basis.
110 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 3.
Accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition and construction of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Pensions The Group operates the Spire Healthcare Pension, a defined contribution scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Other employee benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A provision is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonuses if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment schemes under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
Where the share awards have non-market related performance criteria, the Group has used the Black Scholes valuation model to establish the relevant fair values.
Where the share awards have total shareholder return TSR market-related performance criteria, the Group has used the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model to establish the relevant fair values see note 26.
The resulting fair values are recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the options.
At the end of each year, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market conditions and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered to be an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected, risk-adjusted, future cash flows at a pre-tax risk-free rate.
Provisions are measured gross of any expected insurance recovery.
Any such insurance recoveries are recognised in other receivables when the receipt of them is judged sufficiently probable.
Leases Leasing arrangements which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are treated as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are included in tangible assets and depreciated over their estimated economic lives or over the term of the lease, whichever is the shorter.
The capital element of the leasing commitments is included in liabilities as obligations under finance leases.
The lease rentals are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligation and the interest element is charged to the income statement in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Sale and leaseback of properties In circumstances where the Group sells a property to a third party and then enters into an agreement with the buyer to lease the asset back under an operating lease a sale and leaseback transaction, the asset is shown as disposed from property, plant and equipment.
If the sale is at fair value, the profit or loss on disposal is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the sale price is below fair value, the profit or loss on disposal is also recognised immediately, except if a loss is compensated for by future rentals being below a market price, in which case the loss is amortised over the life of the lease.
If the sale price is above fair value, the excess over fair value is deferred and amortised over the period of the lease.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Taxation including deferred taxation Total income tax on the result for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity and other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised directly in equity and other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable result for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, except for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and which, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss: and investments in subsidiary companies where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be used.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted from share premium.
Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders in both the Company and the Consolidated balance sheet until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
New and amended standards and interpretations The following amendments to existing standards and interpretations were effective for the Group from 1 January 2016, but either they were not applicable to or did not have a material impact on the Group: Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 Cycle Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities: Applying Consolidation Exception The Group or the Company has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that has been issued but is not yet effective on 1 January 2016.
112 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
