STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 15.
Intangible assets continued Management identified a number of key assumptions relevant to the value-in-use calculations, being revenue growth, which is impacted by an interaction of a number of elements of the operating model, including pricing trends, volume growth and the mix and complexity of discharges, assumptions regarding cost inflation and discount rates.
These variables are interdependent and the forecast cash flows reflect managements expectations based on current market trends.
Revenue growth is projected to be in line with past experience and expectations of future performance, averaging 4.1% for the five-year period 2015: 5.9%.
Cost assumptions are consistent with the Groups historical track record, after taking account of headline inflation at 1.0% 2015: 2.7%.
A long-term growth rate of 2.25% 2015: 2.25% has been applied to cash flows beyond 2020, which is based on historic growth rates achieved by the sector, which have typically exceeded retail price index RPI.
Pre-tax discount rates were based on the capital asset pricing model, utilising a sector-specific Beta in arriving at the equity premium and cost of debt based on current bank lending rates.
A specific pre-tax discount rate was calculated to reflect the profile of cash flows inherent to the cash-generating unit and this was 9.0% 2015: 9.0%.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed in order to review the impact of changes in key assumptions.
For example, an increase of 3.0% in the pre-tax discount rate to 12.0%, with all other assumptions held constant, did not identify any impairments.
Similarly, zero growth in the period beyond 2021, with all other assumptions held constant or combined with a 1.0% increase in the pre-tax discount rate, did not identify any impairment.
As at the balance sheet date, it is not considered to be reasonably possible that circumstances will change, such that the key assumptions made in assessing the recoverable amount relating to each of the acquisitions will be revised to the point where the goodwill is considered impaired.
