Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information OUR RESULTS Consolidated financial statements on international financial reporting standards basis.
CONTENTS Independent Auditors Report Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 119 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, St. Jamess Place plcs group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2016: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context This years audit focused on the core aspects of the business such as the valuation of financial investments, the recoverability of the prepayment asset linked to the new administration system developed at an outsourced provider and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Developments during the year included the completion of the acquisition of the Rowan Dartington Group, as well as the acquisition of two smaller entities.
Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 24.25 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Audit scope The Group financial statements comprise the consolidation of approximately 60 individual components, each of which represents an individual entity within the Group or consolidation adjustments.
We assessed each component and considered the contribution it made to the Groups profit before tax, whether it displayed any significant risk characteristics or whether it contributed a significant amount to any individual financial statement line item.
The above assessment resulted in us identifying ten components that required audit procedures for the purpose of the audit of the Group financial statements.
Nine of the components are based in the UK and were audited by the PwC UK Group audit team.
The remaining component is based in the Republic of Ireland and was audited by PwC Dublin.
By performing audit procedures on these ten components we achieved greater than 90% coverage of each material financial statement line item within the Group financial statements.
Areas of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of the development of an administration platform at an outsourced provider.
Recognition and disclosure of new acquisitions.
Valuation of investments with a judgemental valuation, being investment property and derivatives.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
120 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of the development of an In testing whether the asset was valued appropriately and whether an administration platform at an outsourced provider impairment was necessary we: The Group is charged costs by IFDS in respect of ensuring operational agreed amounts capitalised in the year back to the service readiness of a new policy administration platform.
These costs are agreement and cash payments to IFDS.
recognised as a prepayment to be unwound over the duration of the assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying related service agreement with IFDS.
The balance of the prepayment at managements discounted cash flow calculating the anticipated cost 31 December 2016 was 121m.
The maximum prepayment that can be savings that support the valuation of the prepaid cost asset in the recognised is capped at the net present value of future cost savings.
consolidated statement of financial position.
Due to the nature and magnitude of the amounts arising from the We also agreed the cost savings for 2016 to the new service tariffs contractual terms the valuation of the prepayment asset was an area of against the legacy platform tariff.
We performed a sensitivity analysis audit focus.
on the inflation and discount rate assumptions as well as business flow to determine the potential impact of changes in these variables on the present value of future savings to check whether they would affect the carrying value of the asset this year.
We noted no material exceptions in our procedures and we determined that the disclosure of the transactions in the financial statements was appropriate.
Recognition and disclosure of new acquisitions The most significant of the acquisitions, that of the Rowan Dartington During 2016 the Group completed three acquisitions.
IFRS 3 requires Group RD, was agreed in principle prior to the 2015 accounts being that, when businesses are acquired, management calculate the fair value signed and was disclosed as a subsequent event following legal of the assets and liabilities acquired, as well as the total consideration completion.
We performed audit work over this disclosure, including paid including deferred or contingent consideration.
The excess of the the initial calculation of fair value adjustments as part of the 2015 audit.
consideration over the net fair value of assets and liabilities is then recorded as goodwill.
Calculating fair values of assets and liabilities and In 2016 we have audited the adjustments made to the RD calculation the potential value of contingent consideration often requires compared to that used at the 2015 year end.
The key change was in judgements and estimates, as such, this was an area of focus for respect to the subsequent sale of a subsidiary within the RD group, which our audit.
achieved a value in excess of that included in the 2015 calculation of fair value of assets acquired.
We agreed adjustments back to supporting documentation such as the sale and purchase agreement.
For the other acquisitions in 2016, we obtained and reviewed the sale and purchase agreement and agreed that the accounting entries posted by management were in line with the details in the agreement.
For all three acquisitions we tested the disclosures made within the notes to the financial statements to ensure they were in line with the requirements of IFRS 3.
We also reviewed the goodwill recognised on the acquisitions and considered whether there was any indication of impairment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 121 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition We assessed the critical accounting estimates and judgements as set out ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue in note 2 to the financial statements that had a direct impact on recognition because of the pressure management may feel to achieve revenue.
In this regard we focused on transactions which Specifically we: included a judgemental element in their calculation, typical within the substantively tested the deferred income and acquisition costs and life insurance industry, as set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
the amortisation of DIR and DAC, including assessing the future For the Group, revenue includes fees and commission income on profitability of the products to which the income and acquisition investment contracts and investment advice, premiums on insurance costs related to ensure that profitability was sufficient to support business, and investment return.
the carrying value of the deferred balances: and confirmed substantively the classification of the Groups products We focused specifically on the following: between insurance and investment business to check that insurance Estimates assumptions made by management that have a direct product revenue was appropriately included in the consolidated impact on revenue, as extended by Auditing Practices Board statement of comprehensive income and investment business except Practice Note 20 The audit of insurers in the United Kingdom for fees related to investment contract management was excluded.
PN20, for example the amortisation profile of Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC and Deferred Income DIR.
We confirmed that there were no new reinsurance arrangements Journals posted impacting revenue in addition to the source system during the year and agreed a sample of premiums ceded to the cash determined balance.
We also considered the recognition of income or costs which may have Our work on the above areas of judgement was supported by controls a close relationship to earned insurance premiums and fees, in testing and substantive procedures over all material revenue accordance with PN20, such as reinsurance costs.
The Group fully streams including: reinsures the UK insurance risk of its closed book of protection reconciling fees on investment business to confirmatory business and therefore we focused on whether the 31.5m of premium documentation provided by the asset custodian, State Street: income associated with this business that was passed on to the reinsurer testing internal controls over the accuracy and occurrence of was complete.
revenue recognised in the financial statements: obtaining and reading the two International Standard on Assurance Investment return relates largely to investment contract policyholders Engagements ISAE 3402 Assurance Reports on Controls at a and third party holdings in consolidated unit trusts and so has not been Service Organisation reports issued by International Financial Data included as an area of focus.
Services IFDS relevant to the Group, in particular focusing on the controls designed to prevent and detect fraud operating over the Group administration systems owned and operated by IFDS: testing a sample of journal entries posted throughout the year to revenue accounts that met specific criteria to identify unusual or irregular items.
There were no issues in the ISAE 3402 reports that impacted our audit scope.
We also performed testing of controls and substantive procedures on the IFDS policy administration system Salas and at Capita in Ireland, where ISAE 3402 reports were not available.
Overall, we noted no material exceptions in our testing and found the judgements taken by the Directors to be reasonable.
122 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investments with a judgemental valuation, being investment Financial assets including derivatives property and derivatives SJP outsources investment custodian and valuation activities for The Group financial statements include c. 70bn of investments.
A financial assets, including derivatives, to State Street.
Our audit large number of these are straight forward, vanilla instruments and as procedures therefore focused on the evidence available over these such do not require judgement in calculating the valuation of the outsourced processes.
We obtained and read the International Standard on Assurance However c. 2bn of the investments are in derivatives and investment Engagements ISAE 3402 Assurance Reports on Controls at a properties, which require management to use estimates and judgements Service Organisation for State Streets Global Fund Accounting and in order to calculate the year end valuation.
Due to the magnitude of Custody operations, which provided a description of the systems and the balances and the level of judgement involved, this was an area of controls in place and the results of testing of the operational focus for our audit.
Where appropriate we placed reliance on the controls described in the ISAE 3402 report over the valuation and existence of the financial investments within the portfolio.
We independently re-priced a sample of derivative investments as at year end.
We agreed our independent prices to those provided by State Street.
Investment properties The investment property portfolio is managed by Orchard Street, with title deeds held by DLA Piper and regular valuations performed by CBRE.
We reconciled the listing of properties valued by CBRE to details provided by Orchard Street and also agreed the total valuation to that recorded in the general ledger.
We engaged our in house real estate valuation experts to review the methodology and key assumptions used by CBRE in valuing the portfolio.
We also agreed factual inputs to the calculations eg.
rental income to tenancy agreements.
We noted no material exceptions in our procedures.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the operational and geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured to reflect its vertically integrated wealth management business and operates predominantly within the United Kingdom.
Four of the components within the Group required an audit of their complete financial information.
Of these two St. Jamess Place UK plc and St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group limited were considered financially significant as they contributed greater than 15% of the Groups profit before tax.
The remaining two St. Jamess Place International Plc and the St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts had specific risk characteristics which meant we considered them to require an audit of their complete financial information.
St. Jamess Place International Plc, is a regulated insurance company giving rise to complex accounting entries, such as the calculation of insurance reserves and DAC and DIR balances.
The St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts contribute materially to investments, some of which require judgemental valuations derivatives and investment property.
All components aside from St. Jamess Place International Plc were audited by the Group audit team, PwC UK.
St. Jamess Place International Plc is incorporated and regulated in the Republic of Ireland and was audited by PwC Dublin.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 123 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC continued At the planning stage of the audit we provided written instructions to PwC Dublin to confirm the work we required them to complete and the materiality level they should work to.
We held regular phone calls with the PwC Dublin engagement leader and senior manager through the planning, execution and completion phases of the audit to inform them of developments at a Group level and to understand from them any local developments that were relevant for our audit of the Group.
During the execution phase we obtained access to their electronic working papers and reviewed selected elements of their work, focusing on their work to address the significant and elevated risks identified.
In addition to the full scope audit of the four components noted above, we also performed specific audit procedures on certain financial statement line items within six other components.
These financial statement lines items were selected for testing to ensure we had sufficient coverage of each financial statement line item within the Group financial statements.
Together with additional procedures performed at a Group level on the consolidation, the result of the above scoping was that we achieved greater than 90% coverage of each material financial statement line item within the Group financial statements, giving us the evidence we needed for our audit opinion.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 24 million 2015: 9 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Profit before tax is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 17 million and 4 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory entity audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million 2015: 0.4 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement, set out on page 117, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors Statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
124 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 86 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 72 and 73 with respect to the companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance Statement.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 83, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report.
provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 81, as required by provision We have no exceptions to report.
C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 78 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated the directors explanation on page 50 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 125 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC continued Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 118, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 February 2017 126 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Note 2016 2015 Million Million Insurance premium income 52.2 54.7 Less premiums ceded to reinsurers 31.5 32.6 Net insurance premium income 20.7 22.1 Fee and commission income 4 1,703.9 1,333.5 Investment return 6 9,630.1 1,755.8 Other operating income 1.5 Net income 11,354.7 3,112.9 Policy claims and benefits Gross amount 62.7 65.0 Reinsurers share 21.7 28.5 Net policyholder claims and benefits incurred 41.0 36.5 Change in insurance contract liabilities Gross amount 64.6 10.8 Reinsurers share 4.1 0.5 Net change in insurance contract liabilities 60.5 10.3 Investment contract benefits 11 9,541.8 1,762.5 Expenses 5 1,225.1 1,150.1 Profit before tax 3 486.3 174.1 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 7 345.7 22.8 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 140.6 151.3 Total tax expense credit 7 374.6 27.9 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 7 345.7 22.8 Tax attributable to shareholders returns 7 28.9 50.7 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 111.7 202.0 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 0.5 0.2 Profit attributable to equity shareholders 112.2 202.2 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 111.7 202.0 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 19 21.5 38.9 Diluted earnings per share 19 21.3 38.5 The results relate to continuing operations.
The notes and information below and on pages 131 to 183 form part of these financial statements.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no statement of comprehensive income is presented for the Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 127 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Shares in NonShare Share Trust Retained Misc controlling Total Note Capital Premium Reserve Earnings Reserves Total Interests Equity Million Million Million Million Million Million Million Million At 1 January 2015 77.9 147.4 10.5 793.1 2.3 1,010.2 0.1 1,010.1 Profit loss and total comprehensive income expense for the year 202.2 202.2 0.2 202.0 Dividends 19 130.8 130.8 130.8 Issue of share capital 0.3 1.9 2.2 2.2 Exercise of options 0.5 9.0 9.5 9.5 Consideration paid for own shares 12.8 12.8 12.8 Shares sold during the year 4.7 4.7 Retained earnings credit in respect of proceeds from exercise of share options of shares held in trust 0.1 0.1 0.1 Retained earnings credit in respect of share option charges 14.8 14.8 14.8 At 31 December 2015 78.7 158.3 18.5 874.6 2.3 1,095.4 0.3 1,095.1 Profit loss and total comprehensive income expense for the year 112.2 112.2 0.5 111.7 Dividends 19 155.2 155.2 155.2 Issue of share capital 19 0.9 0.9 0.9 Exercise of options 19 0.4 5.3 5.7 5.7 Consideration paid for own shares 5.5 5.5 5.5 Shares sold during the year 3.1 3.1 Misc reserves on acquisition 0.2 0.2 0.2 Retained earnings credit in respect of share option charges 22.7 22.7 22.7 At 31 December 2016 79.1 164.5 20.9 851.2 2.5 1,076.4 0.8 1,075.6 The number of shares held in the Treasury Share Reserve is given in Note 19 Share Capital on page 170.
Miscellaneous reserves represent other non-distributable reserves.
The notes and information on pages 131 to 183 form part of these financial statements.
128 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION As at As at 31 December 31 December Note 2016 2015 Million Million Assets Goodwill 8 13.8 10.1 Intangible assets Deferred acquisition costs 8 684.8 745.0 Acquired value of in-force business 8 30.4 33.6 Computer software 8 3.0 4.3 732.0 793.0 Property and equipment 9 23.1 8.0 Deferred tax assets 7 199.9 225.9 Reinsurance assets 14 80.5 85.0 Other receivables 12 1,473.0 967.2 Investments Investment property 10 1,462.4 1,344.9 Equities 46,598.7 37,960.8 Fixed income securities 12,445.5 8,934.0 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 3,864.8 3,269.6 Derivative financial instruments 729.1 364.1 Cash and cash equivalents 10 7,413.1 5,325.1 Total assets 75,022.1 59,277.6 Liabilities Borrowings 16 281.4 181.8 Deferred tax liabilities 7 614.8 434.6 Insurance contract liabilities 14 518.2 463.5 Deferred income 8 647.6 413.5 Other provisions 15 17.1 15.4 Other payables 13 1,173.6 706.7 Investment contract benefits 11 53,307.1 43,159.8 Derivative financial instruments 281.9 221.1 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 10 17,032.0 12,556.4 Income tax liabilities 72.7 29.6 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities 73,946.5 58,182.5 Net assets 1,075.6 1,095.1 Shareholders equity Share capital 19 79.1 78.7 Share premium 164.5 158.3 Shares in trust reserve 20.9 18.5 Miscellaneous reserves 2.5 2.3 Retained earnings 851.2 874.6 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent 1,076.4 1,095.4 Non-controlling interests 0.8 0.3 Total equity 1,075.6 1,095.1 Pence Pence Net assets per share 203.9 208.7 Some lines have been aggregated in the comparative to simplify the presentation.
See Note 12 Other Receivables and Note 13 Other Payables for further information.
The financial statements on pages 127 to 183 were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by: David Bellamy Andrew Croft The notes and information on pages 131 to 183 Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer form part of these financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 129 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Note 2016 2015 Million Million Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax for the year 486.3 174.1 Adjustments for: Depreciation 9 4.4 2.5 Amortisation of acquired value of in-force business 8 3.2 3.2 Amortisation of computer software 8 3.4 3.4 Share-based payment charge 20 23.9 15.7 Interest income 26.6 23.9 Interest expense 4.9 4.4 Increase in provisions 1.7 4.0 Exchange rate gains 3.3 Changes in operating assets and liabilities Decrease in deferred acquisition costs 8 60.2 68.0 Increase in investment property 117.5 313.5 Increase in other investments 13,109.6 5,826.7 Decrease in reinsurance assets 4.5 0.5 Increase in other receivables 464.4 451.8 Increase decrease in insurance contract liabilities 54.6 10.9 Increase in financial liabilities excluding borrowings 10,207.8 4,450.4 Increase decrease in deferred income 8 234.1 49.7 Increase in other payables 407.8 282.1 Increase in net assets attributable to unit holders 4,475.6 1,938.6 Cash generated from operating activities 2,251.0 270.4 Interest received 26.6 23.9 Interest paid 4.9 4.4 Income taxes paid 87.7 61.7 Net cash generated from operating activities 2,185.0 228.2 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of property and equipment 9 19.6 4.0 Acquisition of intangible assets 8 2.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other business combinations, net of cash acquired 23.1 0.8 Net cash used in investing activities 44.8 4.8 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the issue of share capital 5.7 9.5 Consideration paid for own shares 5.5 12.8 Proceeds from exercise of options over shares held in trust 0.1 Additional borrowings 16 100.0 175.0 Repayment of borrowings 0.9 79.1 Dividends paid 19 155.2 130.8 Net cash used in financing activities 55.9 38.1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,084.3 185.3 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 10 5,325.1 5,139.4 Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 3.7 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 10 7,413.1 5,325.1 Some lines have been aggregated in the comparative to simplify the presentation.
130 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a Company incorporated and The new standard establishes a principle based five step model to be domiciled in England and Wales.
applied to all contracts with customers, except for insurance contracts, financial instruments and lease contracts.
The Group is assessing the Statement of Compliance impact that IFRS 15 will have on the financial statements, where is it The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its likely to impact DAC and DIR.
IFRS 15 is mandatory for financial years subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
commencing on or after 1 January 2018, following endorsement by the EU on 22 September 2016.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting IFRS 16 Leases Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs' and interpretations IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016.
It will result in almost all leases issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and those parts being recognised on the statement of financial position, as the distinction of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable when reporting under between operating and finance leases is removed.
standard, an asset the right to use the leased item and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised.
The only exceptions are for short As at 31 December 2016, the following amended standards, which the term or low value leases.
The accounting for lessors will not significantly Group has adopted as of 1 January 2016, have not had any material change.
impact on the Groups reported results: IAS 1 Amendment Disclosure Initiative The standard will affect the accounting for the Groups operating leases.
IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments Clarification of Acceptable As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation commitments of 134.4 million, see Note 16.
On adoption of the IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Amendments Investment Entities: standard, the right-of-use asset and liability for future payments are Applying the Consolidation Exception expected to be material to the statement of financial position, and there Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle is expected to be a negative impact on the statement of comprehensive income initially which will reverse over time.
The negative impact arises As at 31 December 2016, the following new and amended standards, as the lease liability is accounted for using the effective interest method, which are relevant to the Group but have not been applied in the which means that the interest expense on the lease liability reduces year financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: on year, whereas under the current lease accounting standard the IAS 7 Amendment Disclosure Initiative operating lease rentals are constant throughout the lease term.
IAS 12 Amendment Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses The Group is assessing the quantum of the adjustments that will be IFRS 2 Amendment Classification and Measurement of Share-based required upon transition to IFRS 16, which is mandatory for financial Payment Transactions years commencing on or after 1 January 2019, subject to EU IFRS 9 Financial Instruments endorsement.
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture The Group financial statements also comply with the revised Statement IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers including of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in subsequent IFRS 15 clarification December 2005 as amended in December 2006, to the extent that it is IFRS 16 Leases consistent with IFRS standards.
The Group is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of the Basis of Preparation above standards, amendments and clarifications will have on the Groups The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these financial results reported within the financial statements.
the standards that are expected to have the most significant impact on the financial statements is given below: The financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest 100,000 pounds.
They are prepared on a historical cost IFRS 9 Financial Instruments basis, except for assets classified as investment property, available-forIFRS 9 incorporates new classification and measurements requirements sale financial assets and assets and liabilities at fair value through profit for financial assets and liabilities, the introduction of an expected credit and loss.
loss impairment model which will replace the incurred loss model of IAS 39, new hedge accounting requirements and enhanced disclosures in The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs the financial statements.
On adoption of this standard, which is requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions mandatory for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2018, that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and following endorsement by the EU on 22 November 2016, certain liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated financial assets will be reclassified but there will be no material on the assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors statement of financial position or the statement of comprehensive that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of income.
The Group does not use hedge accounting and so this element of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of the new standard is not applicable.
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued b Fee and commission income The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing Fee and commission income comprises: basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in i Advice charges paid by clients who wish to receive advice with which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in their investment in a St. Jamess Place or third party retail the year of the revision and future years, if the revision affects both investment product: current and future years.
ii Commission, due in respect of products sold on behalf of third parties: and Judgements made by management in the application of IFRSs that have iii Fees charged on investment contracts including fees charged to significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant clients to match the policyholder tax element of the insurance risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note 2.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Advice charges and commission are recognised in full on acceptance and Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the inception of the associated policy by the relevant product provider.
accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all Where the product provider retains the right to clawback of commission years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
on an indemnity basis, turnover on sale of these products is recognised net of a provision for the estimated clawback.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies a Basis of consolidation Investment contract management fees are generally recognised as The consolidated financial information incorporates the assets, liabilities revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, including dealing and the results of the Company and of its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are margins from unit trusts, which exceed the level of recurring fees and those entities in which the Group controls.
Control exists if the Group is relate to the future provision of services, are deferred, and amortised exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity including unit trusts in which the Group holds more c Insurance and reinsurance premiums than 30% of the units.
Associates are all entities over which the Group Unit linked insurance contract premiums are recognised as revenue has significant influence but not control and are accounted for at fair when the liabilities arising from them are recognised.
All other value through the profit or loss.
The Group uses the acquisition method premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
of accounting to account for business combinations and expenses all acquisition costs as they are incurred.
The financial statements of d Insurance claims and reinsurance recoveries subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from Insurance contracts death claims are accounted for on notification of the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All other Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
Reinsurance recoveries, in respect of insurance claims, are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the e Investment return fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or Investment return comprises investment income and investment gains and liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in the consolidated losses.
Investment income includes dividends, interest and rental income statement of comprehensive income.
from investment properties under operating leases.
Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis, and rental income is recognised in the statement The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests depends on of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
whether, as a result of the transaction, the Group alters control of the Interest, which is generated on assets classified as fair value through profit subsidiary.
Changes in the Parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that or loss, is accounted for using the effective interest method.
does not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions: any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests f Expenses are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is i Payments to Partners recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Parent Payments to Partners comprises initial commission and initial advice fees entity.
Where the Group loses control of the subsidiary, at the date when IAF paid for initial advice, at policy outset and within an 'initial period', control is lost the amount of any non-controlling interest in that former renewal commission and renewal advice fees payable on regular subsidiary is derecognised and any investment retained in the former contributions and fund fee commission or ongoing advice fee OAF based on funds under management.
Initial and renewal commission and subsidiary is remeasured to its fair value: the gain or loss that is recognised advice fees are recognised in line with the associated premium income, but in profit or loss on the partial disposal of the subsidiary includes the gain or initial commission on insurance and investment contracts may be deferred loss on the remeasurement of the retained interest.
as set out in accounting policy f iii.
Fund fee commission and ongoing advice fee are recognised on an accruals basis.
Intragroup balances, and any income and expenses or unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in Commission and advice fees in respect of some insurance and investment preparing the consolidated financial statements.
business may be paid in advance on renewal premiums and accelerated by up to five years.
The unearned element of this accelerated remuneration is The St. Jamess Place Foundation is not consolidated within the financial recognised as an asset within other receivables.
This is because the Company does not control the reduce or stop within the initial period, any unearned amount is recovered.
Foundation in accordance with IFRS 10.
132 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer ii Operating lease payments probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership is retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same Lease incentives received are recognised in the statement of taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities comprehensive income as an integral part of the total lease expense and where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
are spread over the life of the lease.
iii Policyholder and shareholder tax iii Acquisition costs The total income tax charge is a separate adjustment within the For insurance contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as statement of comprehensive income based on the movement in current initial commission and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new and deferred income taxes in respect of income, gains and expenses.
Acquisition costs which are incurred during a financial year, net of total charge reflects tax incurred on behalf of policyholders as well as any impairment losses, are deferred and then amortised on a straight line shareholders, and so it is useful to be able to identify these separately.
basis over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the effective and in accordance with the incidence of future related margins.
rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders on the profits attributable to shareholders.
This is calculated by applying the appropriate effective For investment contracts, only directly attributable acquisition costs, which vary with, and are related to, securing new contracts and corporate tax rates to the shareholder profits.
The remainder of the tax renewing existing contracts, are deferred, and only to the extent that charge represents tax on policyholders investment returns.
This they are recoverable out of future revenue.
These deferred acquisition calculation method is consistent with the legislation relating to the costs, which represent the contractual right to benefit from providing calculation of tax on shareholder profits.
investment management services, net of any impairment losses, are amortised on a straight line basis over the expected lifetime of the h Dividends paid Groups investment contracts.
All other costs are recognised as expenses Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised in when incurred.
Note, following the implementation of the Retail the period in which the dividends are paid.
The final dividend for the Distribution Review RDR on 31 December 2012, the initial advice financial year is disclosed but unpaid and awaiting approval by the costs are no longer an acquisition cost linked to the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and so they are Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
i Investment contract deposits and withdrawals The period over which costs are expected to be recoverable are as follows: Investment contract payments in and out are not included in the Insurance contracts: 6 years statement of comprehensive income but are reported as deposits to or Investment contracts: 12 14 years deductions from investment contract benefits in the statement of financial position.
The movement in investment contract benefits within g Income taxes the statement of comprehensive income principally represents the Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and investment return credited to policyholders.
deferred tax payable by the Group in respect of policyholders and shareholders.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of Explicit advice charges are payable to St. Jamess Place distribution comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items Company by most clients who wish to receive advice with their investment recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
in a St. Jamess Place retail investment product.
St. Jamess Place facilitates Tax liabilities are recognised when it is considered probable that there the payment of these charges for the client, by arranging withdrawals will be a future outflow of funds to a taxing authority and are measured from the clients policy, which are then recognised as income to using a best estimate approach.
St. Jamess Place distribution company.
A proportion of the charge is then paid to the St. Jamess Place adviser Partner who provides the i Current tax advice see f i Expenses.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting j Intangible assets date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
i Acquired value of in-force business The acquired value of in-force business in respect of insurance business represents the present value of profits that are expected to emerge from ii Deferred tax insurance business acquired on business combinations.
It is calculated at Deferred tax is provided using the liability method, providing for the time of acquisition using best estimate actuarial assumptions for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and interest, mortality, persistency and expenses, net of any impairment liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for losses, and it is amortised on a straight line basis as profits emerge over taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: the the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
An initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor intangible asset is also recognised in respect of acquired investment taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The acquired value of in-force business The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of is expressed as a gross figure in the statement of financial position with realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, the associated tax included within deferred tax liabilities.
It is assessed using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
for impairment at each reporting date and any movement is charged to the statement of comprehensive income.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued statement of comprehensive income within investment income.
Rental ii Deferred acquisition costs return from investment property is accounted for as described in Refer to accounting policy f iii.
accounting policy e. iii Computer software n Investments Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and The Groups investments are initially and subsequently recognised at fair any recognised impairment loss.
The carrying value is reviewed for value through profit or loss, with all gains and losses recognised within impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the investment income in the statement of comprehensive income.
The fair carrying value may not be recoverable.
values of quoted financial investments, which represent the vast majority of the Groups investments, are based on the value within the bid-ask spread Computer software is recognised as an intangible asset during that is most representative of fair value.
If the market for a financial development with amortisation commencing when the software is investment is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation operational.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive techniques such as recent arms length transactions, reference to similar income to expenses on a straight line basis over four years, being the listed investments, discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
The decision by the Group to designate its investments at fair value k Goodwill through the profit and loss reflects the fact that the investment portfolio Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the Groups The Group recognises purchases and sales of investments on trade date.
share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity is greater than The costs associated with investment transactions are included within the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in the expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
o Derivative financial instruments Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is reviewed at least The Group uses derivative financial instruments within some unit linked annually for impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there funds, with each contract initially and subsequently recognised at fair value, may be uncertainty over this value.
If an impairment is identified, the based on observable market prices.
All changes in value are recognised carrying value of the goodwill is written down immediately through the within investment income in the statement of comprehensive income.
statement of comprehensive income and is not subsequently reversed.
At the date of disposal of a subsidiary, the carrying value of attributable p Other receivables goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently except where it has been written off directly to reserves in the past.
held at amortised cost less impairment losses, except for renewal income which is held at fair value.
The value of any impairment recognised is the l Property and equipment difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of Items of property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the interest rate.
See accounting policy ab for information relating to the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its treatment of impaired amounts.
Land is shown at fair value, based on valuations by external independent valuers.
The carrying value is reviewed for impairment when q Cash and cash equivalents events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with be recoverable and any assets that may have suffered impairment are banks, other short-term highly liquid investments, and bank overdrafts to reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
the extent that they are an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to Cash and cash equivalents held within unit linked and unit trust funds expenses on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the are classified at fair value through the profit and loss.
All other cash and property and equipment.
cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
m Investment property r Insurance contract liabilities Investment properties, which are all held within the unit linked funds, Insurance contract liability provisions are determined following an are properties which are held to earn rental income and or for capital annual actuarial investigation of the long-term fund in accordance with appreciation.
They are stated at fair value.
The provisions are calculated on the basis of current information and using the gross premium valuation method.
The An external, independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised Groups accounting policies for insurance contracts meet the minimum professional qualification and recent experience in the location and specified requirements for liability adequacy testing under IFRS 4, as category of property being valued, values the portfolio every month.
they consider current estimates of all contractual cash flows, and of related cash flow such as claims handling costs.
The fair values are based on open market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation Insurance contract liabilities can never be definitive as to their timing between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length nor the amount of claims and are therefore subject to subsequent transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted reassessment on a regular basis.
knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
134 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information s Investment contract benefits ii Share-based payments All of the Groups investment contracts are unit linked.
Unit linked The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans for liabilities are measured at fair value by reference to the value of the employees, Partners and Advisers.
The fair value of share-based payment underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, awards granted is recognised as an expense spread over the vesting determined on a bid value, at the reporting date.
An allowance for period of the instrument which accords with the period for which deductions due to or from the Company in respect of policyholder tax on related services are provided, with a corresponding increase in equity in capital gains and losses in the life assurance funds is also reflected in the the case of equity settled plans and the recognition of a liability for cash measurement of unit linked liabilities.
Investment contract benefits are settled plans.
recognised when units are first allocated to the policyholder: they are derecognised when units allocated to the policyholder have been cancelled.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards, measured using standard option pricing models as The decision by the Group to designate its unit linked liabilities as fair the fair value of the services provided by employees, Partners and value through the profit and loss statement reflects the fact that the Advisers cannot be reliably measured.
For equity settled plans, the fair matching investment portfolio, that underpins the unit-linked liabilities, value is determined at grant date and not subsequently remeasured.
For is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
cash settled plans, the fair value is remeasured at each reporting date and the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the t Deferred income statement of comprehensive income for the period.
The initial margin on financial instruments including dealing margins from unit trusts is deferred and recognized over the expected lifetime At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of of the financial instrument.
awards that are expected to vest and it recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the statement of comprehensive u Net asset value attributable to unit holders income, such that the amount recognised for employee, Partner and The Group consolidates unit trusts in which it holds more than 30% of Adviser services are based on the number of awards that actually vest.
the units and exercises control.
The third party interests in these unit The charge to the statement of comprehensive income is not revised for trusts are measured at fair value, since the underlying investment any changes in market vesting conditions.
portfolios are managed on a fair value basis, and they are presented in the statement of financial position as net asset value attributable to unit z Share capital holders.
Income attributable to the third party interests is accounted for Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where any Group entity within investment income, offset by a corresponding change in purchases the Companys equity share capital shares held in trust, the investment contract benefits.
consideration paid is deducted from equity attributable to shareholders, as disclosed in the Shares in Trust reserve.
Where such shares are v Provisions subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or received is included in equity attributable to shareholders, net of any constructive obligation as a result of past events such that it is probable directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the income tax effects.
obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are measured as the discounted expected future cash aa Product classification flows taking account of the risks and uncertainties associated with the The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as either specific liability where appropriate.
insurance contracts or investment contracts.
w Borrowings i Insurance contracts Borrowings are measured initially at fair value, net of directly Insurance contracts are contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
attributable transaction costs, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The Groups product range includes a variety of term assurance and whole The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is of life protection contracts involving significant insurance risk transfer.
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the borrowing period on an effective interest rate basis.
Borrowings are ii Investment contracts recognised on drawdown and derecognised on repayment.
Contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are treated as investment contracts.
The majority of the business written by the Group is x Other payables unit linked investment business and is classified as investment contracts.
Other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently ab Impairment measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
i Non-financial assets Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment when y Employee benefits circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
i Pension obligations An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets The Group operates a defined contribution personal pension plan for its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Contributions to this plan are recognised as an expense in is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Refer the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
The Group has no to accounting policy k for the Groups impairment policy for goodwill.
legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued af Alternative performance measures Within the financial statements, a number of alternative performance ii Financial assets measures APMs are disclosed.
An APM is a measure of financial Formal reviews to assess the recoverability of financial assets are carried performance, financial position or cash flows which is not defined by the out at each reporting date.
The recoverability of such assets is measured relevant financial reporting framework, which for the Group is and the asset is deemed impaired if there is objective evidence of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the impairment as a result of one or more loss events that have an impact on European Union.
APMs are used to provide greater insight to the the expected future cash flows associated with the financial asset.
When performance of the Group and the way it is managed by the Directors.
a loss is incurred the impairment loss recognised in the statement of The Glossary of Alternative Performance Measures on page 199 defines comprehensive income is calculated as the carrying value of the asset less each APM, explains why it is used and, where applicable, how the the projected future cash flows arising from the asset discounted at the measure can be reconciled to the IFRS financial statements.
The impaired assets are presented net of the impairment provision in the statement of financial position.
In relation to financial assets classified as loans and receivables, impairment losses are reversed through the statement of comprehensive income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Such losses are reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation where applicable, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
ac Foreign currency translation The Groups presentation and the Companys functional currency is pounds Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and the gain or losses on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are held at historical cost are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction: those held at fair value are translated using exchange rates ruling at the date on which the fair value was determined.
ad Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Board.
ae Current and non-current disclosure Assets which are expected to be recovered or settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the financial statements.
Those expected to be recovered or settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
Liabilities which are expected or due to be settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the financial statements.
Those liabilities which are expected or due to be settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
136 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Greater detail on the assumptions applied is shown in Note 14.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES Judgements Determining the fair value of investment contract benefits The primary areas in which the Group has applied judgement in applying In accordance with IFRS 13, the Group categorises unit-linked insurance accounting policies are in the classification of contracts between contracts as financial liabilities, carried on the statement of financial insurance and investment business and when applying the concept of position at fair value.
The fair value of unit linked liabilities is assessed by control to determine which entities are subsidiaries.
reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value, at the reporting Classification of Contracts between Insurance and date.
As the underlying net asset value is determined using inputs other Investment business than quoted prices but which are observable, either directly that is, as Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices, the liability is insurance.
All other contracts are treated as investment contracts.
It is categorised as a level 2 financial instrument.
Further details of these this classification that management considers to be a critical judgement: valuations are described in Note 17. however, due to the carrying value of the insurance contract liabilities within the statement of financial position, management does not Determining the fair value of financial instruments and consider insurance business to be significant to the Group.
investment property In accordance with IFRS 13, the Group categorises financial instruments Subsidiaries carried on the statement of financial position at fair value using a three Subsidiaries are those entities which the Group controls.
Financial instruments categorised as level 1 are valued if the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its using quoted market prices and therefore there is minimal judgement involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity including unit trusts in which the applied in determining fair value.
However, the fair value of financial Group holds more than 30% of the units.
instruments categorised as level 2 and, in particular, level 3 is determined using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques Deciding the Amount of Management Expenses that are involve management judgement and estimates, the extent of which Treated as Acquisition Expenses depends on the complexity of the instrument and the availability of Certain management expenses vary with the level of new business and market observable information.
Further details of these valuations are have been treated as acquisition costs.
Each line of costs has been described in Note 17. reviewed and its variability to new business volumes estimated on the basis of the level of costs that would be incurred if new business ceased.
Valuing capital losses in the unit funds In line with IAS 12, the Group has recognised a deferred tax asset in Estimates relation to capital losses in the unit funds at the reporting date.
This asset The principal areas in which the Group applies accounting estimates are: has been tested for impairment against the level of capital gains Determining the value of insurance contract liabilities: realistically expected to arise in future.
Determining the fair value of investment contract benefits: Determining the fair value of investment property: Much of the benefit of the deferred tax asset on capital losses in the unit Determining the fair value liability to policyholders for capital losses funds will be shared with policyholders.
The policyholder investment in unit funds: contract liability has therefore been increased to reflect the fair value of Amortisation and recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and this additional benefit.
The assumptions that have a significant effect on deferred income: the fair value of the liability are as follows: Determining the fair value, amortisation and recoverability of acquired in-force business: The assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current Fair value estimation of assets acquired: gilt yields: Determining the value of deferred tax assets: The lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on experience Recoverability of St. Jamess Place Partnership loans: during the year: and Measurement of prepaid operational readiness costs: and The assumed period for development of capital gains, which is Determining the fair value of share-based payments.
Estimates are also applied in determining the amount of deferred tax asset Amortisation and recoverability of Deferred Acquisition Costs recognised on unrelieved expenses and the value of other provisions.
DAC and Deferred Income DIR Deferred acquisition costs on investment contracts are amortised on a Measurement of insurance contract liabilities straight line basis over the expected lifetime of the underlying The assumptions used in the calculation of insurance contract liabilities contracts.
The expected lifetime of the contracts has been estimated that have an effect on the statement of comprehensive income of the from the experienced termination rates and the age of clients at Group are: inception and maturity.
The lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on an investigation of experience during the year: Deferred income on investment contracts is amortised on a straight line The level of expenses, which is based on actual expenses in 2016 and basis over the expected lifetime of the underlying contracts, although on expected rates in 2017 and the long-term: certain contracts, the impact of early withdrawal charges means the The mortality and morbidity rates, which are based on the results of income is effectively recognised over a shorter period.
an investigation of experience during the year: and The assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current gilt yields.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN Measurement of prepaid operational readiness costs APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Included within prepayments are operational readiness costs relating to Deferred acquisition costs on insurance contracts are amortised over the the new administration service agreement which are initially recognised period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable in at the amounts advanced.
The prepayment is expensed in line with the accordance with the projected emergence of future margins.
provision of services under the service agreement.
At each statement of financial position date, the value of the prepayment is assessed for Deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance and investment contracts impairment recognised against the present value of the estimated future are tested annually for recoverability by reference to expected future contract benefits.
In determining the present value of the estimated income levels.
Future income levels are projected using assumptions future contract benefits, the critical judgements are the levels of future consistent with those underlying our embedded value calculation.
business that will be serviced, the anticipated future service tariffs, termination fees payable and receivable under the contract and the rate Acquired in-force business used to discount amounts to present value.
There have been no new business combinations generating acquired in-force business during the year.
The acquired value of the in-force Determining the fair value of share-based payments business is amortised on a basis that reflects the expected profit stream In determining the fair value of share-based payments and the related arising from the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
This profit charge to the statement of comprehensive income, the Group makes stream is estimated from the experienced termination rates, expenses of assumptions about the future events and market conditions.
In management and age of the clients under the individual contracts as well particular, judgement must be formed as to the likely number of share as global estimates of investment growth, based on recent experience at awards that will vest, and the fair value of each award granted.
Further the date of acquisition.
details of these assumptions used are described in Note 20.
The acquired value of in-force business relating to insurance and investment contracts is tested annually for recoverability by reference to expected future income levels.
Fair value estimation of assets acquired In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, as of the acquisition date, the Group recognises, separately from goodwill, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and classifies the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of the contractual terms, economic conditions, its operating or accounting policies and other pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date.
The Group measures the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values.
Determining the value of deferred tax assets In line with IAS 12, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets for future tax benefits that will accrue.
The asset value has taken into consideration the likelihood of appropriate future income or gains against which the tax asset can be utilised.
In particular, future investment income from the existing assets and new business will be sufficient to utilise the unrelieved expenses, and capital gains crystallising in the unit linked funds will utilise the capital losses.
Tax assets in relation to deferred income will be utilised as the underlying income is recognised.
Recoverability of St. Jamess Place Partnership loans During the normal course of business the Group provides loans to St. Jamess Place Partners in order to support the development and growth of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
The St. Jamess Place Partnership loans are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less impairment losses.
The recoverability of loans is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
The allowance for impairment losses on St. Jamess Place Partnership loans is managements best estimate of losses incurred in the portfolio at the statement of financial position date.
138 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 3.
SEGMENT REPORTING IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified, on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Board, in order to allocate resources to each segment and assess its performance.
The composition of the segments has changed and comparatives have been restated on the new basis.
The Groups only reportable segment under IFRS 8 is a wealth management business which is a  business providing support to our clients through the provision of financial advice and assistance through our Partner network, and financial solutions including but not limited to wealth management products manufactured in the Group, such as insurance bonds, pensions, unit trust and ISA investments, and a DFM service.
Separate geographical segmental information is not presented since the Group does not segment its business geographically.
Most of its customers are based in the United Kingdom, as is management of the assets.
In particular, the operation based in south-east Asia is not yet sufficiently material for separate consideration.
Segment Revenue Revenue received from fee and commission income is set out in Note 4 which sets out the different types of revenue received from our wealth management business.
Segment Profit Two separate measures of profit are monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
These are the post-tax underlying cash result and pre-tax European Embedded Value EEV.
Underlying cash result The measure of cash profit monitored on a monthly basis by the Board is the post-tax underlying cash result.
This reflects emergence of cash available for paying a dividend during the year.
Underlying cash is based on the cash flows within the IFRS results, but with no allowance for intangibles, principally DAC, DIR, PVIF, goodwill and deferred tax.
As the cost associated with share options is reflected in changes in shareholder equity, they are also not included in the underlying cash result.
More detail is provided in the Financial Review section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The cash result should not be confused with the IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows which is prepared in accordance with IAS 7.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Underlying cash result after tax 199.5 182.1 Share option expense 23.9 15.0 IFRS deferred tax adjustments 21.1 52.1 Insurance reserves 1.6 1.8 Back office infrastructure 16.7 14.4 Variance 7.7 3.8 DAC DIR PVIF 16.8 4.8 IFRS profit after tax 111.7 202.0 Shareholder tax 28.9 50.7 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 140.6 151.3 Tax attributable to policyholder returns 345.7 22.8 IFRS profit before tax 486.3 174.1 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 3.
SEGMENT REPORTING continued EEV operating profit EEV operating profit is monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
The components of the EEV operating profit are included in more detail in the Financial Review section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million EEV operating profit before tax 673.6 660.2 Investment return variance 537.2 24.4 Economic assumption changes 12.4 0.9 EEV profit before tax 1,198.4 636.7 Adjustments to IFRS basis Deduct: amortisation of acquired value of in-force 3.2 3.2 Movement in life value of in-force net of tax 642.7 187.6 Movement in unit trust value of in-force net of tax 257.6 176.4 Tax of movement in value of in-force 154.3 118.2 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 140.6 151.3 Tax attributable to policyholder returns 345.7 22.8 IFRS profit before tax 486.3 174.1 Segment Assets Funds under Management FUM FUM, as reported in Section 1 of the Financial Review on page 29 is the measure of segment assets which is monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Investment 25,500.0 22,520.0 Pension 28,630.0 20,860.0 UT ISA and DFM 21,180.0 15,230.0 Total FUM 75,310.0 58,610.0 Exclude client and third party holdings in non-consolidated unit trusts and DFM 4,153.9 2,497.1 Other 283.7 562.8 Gross assets held to cover unit liabilities 71,439.8 56,675.7 IFRS intangible assets see page 39 Adjustment 2 including goodwill, DAC, PVIF, reassurance and deferred tax 917.7 1,067.0 Shareholder gross assets see page 39 2,664.6 1,534.9 Total assets 75,022.1 59,277.6 140 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 4.
FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Advice charges 510.7 420.7 Third party fee and commission income 103.5 97.8 Wealth management fees 590.7 544.2 Investment management fees 52.6 137.5 Fund tax deductions 352.2 27.8 Discretionary fund management DFM fees 5.3 Fee and commission income before DIR amortisation 1,615.0 1,228.0 Amortisation of DIR 88.9 105.5 Total fee and commission income 1,703.9 1,333.5 5.
EXPENSES The following items are included within the expenses disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Employee costs 150.8 121.2 Depreciation 4.4 2.5 Amortisation of acquired value of in-force business 3.2 3.2 Amortisation of DAC 98.8 100.1 Amortisation of computer software 3.4 3.4 Payments to Partners 599.7 518.5 Payment under operating leases 11.8 10.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries excluding Unit Trusts 0.6 0.5 Audit of the Companys Unit Trusts 0.3 0.3 Audit-related assurance services 0.5 0.5 Other non-audit services 0.1 Employee Costs Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Wages and salaries 113.7 92.0 Social security costs 12.8 10.3 Other pension costs in relation to defined contribution schemes 8.0 6.8 Cost of employee share awards and options 16.3 12.1 Total employee costs 150.8 121.2 Average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year 1,735 1,430 The above information includes Directors remuneration.
The aggregate emoluments of the highest paid Director were 0.9 million 2015: 0.9 million, cash supplement in lieu of their defined contribution pension scheme was 0.1 million 2015: 0.1 million, they exercised 175,807 share options during 2016 2015: 490,435 and 24,591 shares were released to them in respect of the deferred bonus scheme 2015: 49,563.
Full details of the Directors remuneration, share options, pension entitlements and interests in shares are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 93 to 113.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 6.
INVESTMENT RETURN Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Investment return on net assets held to cover unit liabilities: Rental income 72.4 60.4 Loss gain on revaluation of investment properties 23.4 74.0 Net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss 7,456.8 1,396.0 7,505.8 1,530.4 Income attributable to third party holdings in unit trusts 2,094.5 216.8 9,600.3 1,747.2 Investment return on shareholder assets: Net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss 22.9 2.7 Interest income on financial instruments held at amortised cost 6.9 5.9 Total investment return 9,630.1 1,755.8 Included in the net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss within investment return on net assets held to cover unit liabilities is dividend income of 756.2 million 2015: 586.4 million.
142 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 7.
INCOME AND DEFERRED TAXES Tax for the year Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Current tax UK corporation tax Current year charge 171.8 86.0 Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.6 0.7 Overseas taxes Current year charge 4.2 3.7 Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.1 175.3 90.4 Deferred tax Unrealised capital gains and losses in unit linked funds 196.3 50.0 Unrelieved expenses Additional expenses recognised in the year 12.5 11.6 Utilisation in the year 18.7 19.7 Capital losses Additional losses recognised in the year 2.2 74.8 Utilisation in the year 12.6 12.1 Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.1 1.1 DAC, DIR and PVIF 11.6 4.4 Other items 4.4 5.8 Change in tax rate 1.3 4.5 Overseas taxes on losses 0.3 2.1 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.7 199.3 118.3 Total tax charge credit for the year 374.6 27.9 Attributable to: policyholders 345.7 22.8 shareholders 28.9 50.7 374.6 27.9 The prior year adjustment in current tax above includes a credit of 1.4 million in respect of policyholder tax 2015: 1.0 million charge.
Included within the deferred tax on other items is a charge of 0.2 million 2015: 1.8 million credit relating to share-based payments.
Details of share-based payments are disclosed in Note 20 Share-based Payments.
In arriving at the profit before tax attributable to shareholders return, it is necessary to estimate the analysis of the total tax charge between that payable in respect of policyholders and that payable by shareholders.
Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the effective rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders on the profits attributable to shareholders.
This is calculated by applying the appropriate effective corporate tax rates to the shareholder profits.
The remainder of the tax charge represents tax on policyholders investment returns.
This calculation method is consistent with the legislation relating to the calculation of tax on shareholder profits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 143 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 7.
INCOME AND DEFERRED TAXES continued Tax paid in the year Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Current tax charge for the year 175.3 90.4 Payments to be made in future years in respect of current year 72.6 28.7 Payments made in current year in respect of prior years 30.6 32.3 Other 0.1 0.5 Tax paid 133.4 93.5 Tax paid can be analysed as: Taxes paid in UK 129.0 89.3 Taxes paid in overseas jurisdictions 1.9 1.8 Withholding taxes suffered on investment income received 2.5 2.4 Tax paid 133.4 93.5 Movement in net deferred tax balance Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Deferred tax asset 225.9 192.8 Deferred tax liability 434.6 519.8 Net deferred tax balance at 1 January 208.7 327.0 Charge credit through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 199.3 118.3 Arising on acquisitions during the year 6.9 Deferred tax asset 199.9 225.9 Deferred tax liability 614.8 434.6 Balance at 31 December 414.9 208.7 144 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Reconciliation of tax charge to expected tax Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Profit before tax 486.3 174.1 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 345.7 22.8 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders return 140.6 151.3 Shareholder tax charge at corporate tax rate of 20% 2015: 20.25% 28.1 20% 30.6 20.25% Adjustments: Tax regime differences Lower rates of corporation tax in overseas subsidiaries 0.9 0.6% 1.4 0.9% Expected shareholder tax 27.2 19.3% 29.2 19.3% Other Non-taxable income 1.0 Recognition and usage of capital losses arising in the Group 2.2 74.8 Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.1 1.5 Differences in accounting and tax bases in relation to employee share schemes 0.7 5.4 Disallowable expenses 1.2 3.0 Tax losses not recognised or past losses now recognised 2.0 1.8 Other 0.2 1.5 0.4 0.3% 75.4 49.8% Change in tax rate 1.3 4.5 Shareholder tax charge credit 28.9 20.6% 50.7 33.5% Policyholder tax charge 345.7 22.8 Total tax charge credit for the year 374.6 27.9 Tax attributable to policyholder returns is equal to the policyholder tax charge and reflects fund tax deductions offset by policyholder tax effects on intangibles.
Tax calculated on profit before tax at 20% 2015: 20.25% would amount to 97.3 million 2015: 35.3 million.
The difference of 277.3 million 2015: 63.2 million between this number and the total tax of 374.6 million 2015: 27.9 million is made up of the reconciling items above which total 0.8 million 2015: 81.3 million and the effect of the apportionment methodology on tax applicable to policyholder returns of 276.5 million 2015: 18.1 million.
Deferred tax assets Expected 31 December 31 December utilisation 2016 2015 Years Million Million Unrelieved expenses life insurance business 6 50.9 57.1 Deferred income DIR 14 39.7 45.2 Capital losses available for future relief 10 99.0 113.1 Employee share scheme costs 3 5.5 5.8 Future capital allowances 6 4.1 3.0 Other 0.7 1.7 Total deferred tax assets 199.9 225.9 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 145 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 7.
INCOME AND DEFERRED TAXES continued Appropriate investment income, gains or profits are expected to arise against which the tax assets can be utilised.
Whilst the actual rates of utilisation will depend on business growth and external factors, particularly investment market conditions, they have been tested for sensitivity to experience and are resilient to a range of reasonably foreseeable scenarios.
At the reporting date there were unrecognised deferred tax assets of 4.1 million 2015: 1.4 million in respect of losses in companies where appropriate profits are not considered probable in the forecast period.
These losses primarily relate to our Asia based businesses and can be carried forward indefinitely.
Deferred tax liabilities Expected 31 December 31 December utilisation 2016 2015 Years Million Million Unrealised capital gains and losses on life insurance BLAGAB assets backing unit liabilities 6 501.1 304.8 Deferred acquisition costs DAC 14 97.8 117.8 Acquired value of in-force business PVIF 10 5.4 6.2 Renewal income assets 20 8.6 3.5 Other 1.9 2.3 Total deferred tax liabilities 614.8 434.6 Future tax rate changes Future tax rate changes, including the further reduction in the corporation tax rate from 18% to 17% effective from 1 April 2020 which was enacted in the Finance Act 2016, have been incorporated into the deferred tax balances.
Other tax matters We have considered the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS actions relevant to the St. Jamess Place Group and believe that they will not have a material impact on the financial results of the Group.
We have developed our processes and procedures to enable completion of any required reporting by the relevant deadlines.
146 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 8.
GOODWILL, INTANGIBLE ASSETS, DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS AND DEFERRED INCOME Computer Acquired software & value of other specific in-force software Goodwill business developments DAC DIR Million Million Million Million Million Cost At 1 January 2015 10.1 73.4 13.6 1,579.1 1,149.2 Additions 32.1 55.8 At 31 December 2015 10.1 73.4 13.6 1,611.2 1,205.0 At 1 January 2016 10.1 73.4 13.6 1,611.2 1,205.0 Additions 3.7 2.1 38.6 56.0 Addition due to reassessment of unit liability 267.0 At 31 December 2016 13.8 73.4 15.7 1,649.8 1,528.0 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2015 36.6 5.9 766.1 686.0 Charge for the year 3.2 3.4 100.1 105.5 At 31 December 2015 39.8 9.3 866.2 791.5 At 1 January 2016 39.8 9.3 866.2 791.5 Charge for the year 3.2 3.4 98.8 88.9 At 31 December 2016 43.0 12.7 965.0 880.4 Carrying value At 31 December 2015 10.1 33.6 4.3 745.0 413.5 At 31 December 2016 13.8 30.4 3.0 684.8 647.6 Current 3.2 0.9 98.7 134.5 Non-current 13.8 27.2 2.1 586.1 513.1 13.8 30.4 3.0 684.8 647.6 Outstanding amortisation period At 31 December 2015 n a 10 years 4 years 14 years 614 years At 31 December 2016 n a 9 years 4 years 14 years 614 years Goodwill The carrying value of goodwill split by acquisition is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million SJP Asia companies 10.1 10.1 Technical Connection Limited 3.7 Balance at 31 December 13.8 10.1 Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
The recoverable amount has been based on value in use calculations using pre-tax cash flows.
Details of the assumptions made in these calculations are provided below: Key assumptions based on experience: Value of new business Projection period: Five years of detailed forecasts extrapolated into perpetuity using a long-term growth rate Long-term growth rate: 1.4% Pre-tax discount rate: 3.0% It is considered that any reasonably possible levels of change in the key assumptions would not result in impairment of the goodwill.
Acquired value of in-force business DAC computer software Amortisation is charged to expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
Amortisation profiles are reassessed annually.
DIR Amortisation is credited within fee and commission income in the statement of comprehensive income.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 9.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Fixtures and Assets Fittings and held for Sale Office Computer Land Equipment Equipment Total Million Million Million Million Cost At 1 January 2015 1.4 34.7 6.1 42.2 Additions 3.2 0.8 4.0 Disposals 1.4 4.8 5.6 11.8 At 31 December 2015 33.1 1.3 34.4 At 1 January 2016 33.1 1.3 34.4 Additions 16.5 3.1 19.6 Disposals 9.9 9.9 At 31 December 2016 39.7 4.4 44.1 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2015 28.4 5.9 34.3 Charge for the year 2.2 0.3 2.5 Eliminated on disposal 4.8 5.6 10.4 At 31 December 2015 25.8 0.6 26.4 At 1 January 2016 25.8 0.6 26.4 Charge for the year 3.5 0.9 4.4 Eliminated on disposal 9.8 9.8 At 31 December 2016 19.5 1.5 21.0 Net book value At 1 January 2015 1.4 6.3 0.2 7.9 At 31 December 2015 7.3 0.7 8.0 At 31 December 2016 20.2 2.9 23.1 Amortisation period estimated useful life 5 years 3 years 148 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 10.
INVESTMENTS, INVESTMENT PROPERTY AND CASH Net assets held to cover unit liabilities Included within the statement of financial position are the following assets and liabilities comprising the net assets held to cover unit liabilities.
31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Assets Investment property 1,462.4 1,344.9 Equities 46,598.7 37,960.8 Fixed income securities 12,397.8 8,850.9 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2,997.4 2,736.9 Derivative financial instruments Currency forwards 86.5 33.8 Interest rate swaps 40.0 13.5 Collaterised mortgage obligations 510.2 238.7 Index options 17.7 20.3 Contracts for differences 8.2 10.7 Equity rate swaps 26.2 16.1 Foreign currency options 18.7 22.8 Total return swaps 18.7 6.6 Other derivatives 2.9 1.6 Cash and cash equivalents 7,067.2 5,091.6 Other receivables 187.2 603.9 Total assets 71,439.8 56,953.1 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments Currency forwards 176.4 168.6 Interest rate swaps 38.3 5.9 Fixed Income options 6.1 Index options 5.9 3.6 Contracts for differences 2.9 4.3 Equity rate swaps 30.2 5.8 Foreign currency options 10.1 19.6 Total return swaps 8.1 0.2 Other derivatives 10.0 7.0 Other payables 383.5 585.2 Total liabilities 665.4 806.3 Net assets held to cover linked liabilities 70,774.4 56,146.8 Investment contract benefits 53,307.1 43,159.8 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 17,032.0 12,556.4 Unit linked insurance contract liabilities 435.3 376.5 Consolidation adjustments 54.1 Net unit linked liabilities 70,774.4 56,146.8 Net assets held to cover linked liabilities, and third party holdings in unit trusts, are considered to have a maturity of up to one year since they are actively traded and managed to facilitate immediate settlement.
See accounting policy ae for further information on current and non-current disclosure.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 10.
INVESTMENTS, INVESTMENT PROPERTY AND CASH continued Investment property 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Balance at 1 January 1,344.9 1,031.4 Additions 131.6 247.9 Capitalised expenditure on existing properties 9.3 5.9 Disposals 14.3 Changes in fair value 23.4 74.0 Balance at 31 December 1,462.4 1,344.9 Investment property is held within unit linked funds and is considered current.
Investment property is valued monthly by external chartered surveyors in accordance with the guidance issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
The investment property valuation has been prepared using the market approach valuation technique using prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable i. e. similar assets.
The rental income and direct operating expenses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of investment properties are set out below.
All expenses relate to property generating rental income.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Rental income 72.4 60.4 Direct operating expenses 6.3 5.8 At the year end, contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property amounted to 4.5 million 2015: 9.0 million and to dispose of investment property amounted to nil 2015: nil.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Cash at bank 341.1 233.5 Cash held by third parties 4.8 Cash and cash equivalents not held to cover unit liabilities 345.9 233.5 Balances held to cover unit liabilities 7,067.2 5,091.6 Total cash and cash equivalents 7,413.1 5,325.1 All Cash and cash equivalents are considered current.
150 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 11.
MOVEMENT IN INVESTMENT CONTRACT BENEFITS 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Balance at 1 January 43,159.8 38,851.2 Deposits 7,346.5 6,039.1 Withdrawals 3,536.0 2,704.3 Movement in unit-linked investment contract benefits 7,447.3 1,545.7 Less: fees and other adjustments for reassessment of unit liability 1,110.5 571.9 Balance at 31 December 53,307.1 43,159.8 Current 3,305.0 3,237.0 Non-current 50,002.1 39,922.8 53,307.1 43,159.8 Movement in unit liabilities Unit-linked investment contract benefits 7,447.3 1,545.7 Third party unit trust holdings 2,094.5 216.8 Movement in investment contract benefits in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 9,541.8 1,762.5 See accounting policy ae for further information on the current and non-current disclosure.
OTHER RECEIVABLES 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Receivables in relation to unit liabilities 834.1 478.4 Other receivables in relation to insurance and unit trust business 147.3 111.7 Operational readiness prepayment 121.1 76.5 Advanced payments to Partners 31.2 27.9 Other prepayments 45.1 37.7 St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 212.2 178.7 Renewal income assets 58.9 26.8 Miscellaneous 23.1 29.5 Total other receivables 1,473.0 967.2 Current 1,137.9 726.6 Non-current 335.1 240.6 1,473.0 967.2 Balance includes 76.2 million of insurance and investment contract receivables previously disclosed as separate line items on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position in 2015.
This reclassification has been made in order to simplify the presentation of the consolidated statement of financial position.
All items within Other receivables meet the definition of financial assets with the exception of Other prepayments and Advanced payments to Partners.
Receivables in net assets held to cover unit liabilities and in relation to insurance and unit trust business are short term settlement receivables, typically settled within three days.
The operational readiness prepayment relates to the new administration platform being developed by our key outsourced back-office administration provider.
Management has assessed the recoverability of this prepayment against the expected cost saving benefit of lower future tariff costs arising from the new platform.
It is believed that any reasonably possible change in the assumptions applied within this assessment, such as levels of future business, the anticipated future service tariffs and the discount rate, would have no impact on the carrying value of the asset.
St. Jamess Place Partnership loans are interest bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
The St. Jamess Place Partnership loans are shown net of a 3.3 million provision 2015: 3.0 million.
During the year 0.4 million of the provision was utilised 2015: 1.2 million utilised whilst new provisions and adjustments to existing provisions increased the total by 0.7 million 2015: 1.3 million increase.
The fair value of loans and receivables included in other receivables is not materially different from amortised cost.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 12.
OTHER RECEIVABLES continued Movement in renewal income assets: 2016 2015 Million Million At 1 January 26.8 29.1 Additions 38.2 1.4 Revaluation 6.1 3.7 Total renewal income at 31 December 58.9 26.8 The key assumptions used for the assessment of the fair value of the renewal income are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Lapse rate SJP Partner renewal income 6% 10% 6% 10% Lapse rate Non SJP renewal income 15% 25% 9% 32% Discount rate 5.0% 7.5% 5.0% Future income streams are projected making use of persistency assumptions derived from the Groups experience of the business or, where insufficient data exists, from external industry experience.
These assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis.
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each business combination classified within renewal income.
OTHER PAYABLES 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Payables in relation to unit liabilities 558.7 311.0 Other payables in relation to insurance and unit trust business 300.0 134.0 Accruals 146.9 112.4 Accruals for future payments to Partners 74.2 66.3 Miscellaneous 93.8 83.0 Total other payables 1,173.6 706.7 Current 1,123.7 651.7 Non-current 49.9 55.0 1,173.6 706.7 Balance includes 45.9 million of insurance and investment contract payables and 108.3 million of claims outstanding previously disclosed as separate line items on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position in 2015.
Included within miscellaneous is a Contract Payment of 49.8 million 2015: 48.3 million which is non-interest bearing and repayable on a straight line basis over the life of a twelve year service agreement commencing in 2017.
The fair value of financial instruments held at amortised cost within other payables is not materially different from amortised cost.
152 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 14.
INSURANCE LIABILITIES AND REINSURANCE ASSETS Risk Insurance risk arises from inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the client or other beneficiary if a specified future event the insured event occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks but has no longevity risk as we have never written any annuity business.
The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk, only actively pursuing it where financially beneficial, or in support of strategic objectives.
Risk Description Management Underwriting Failure to price appropriately for a risk, or the The Group ceased writing new protection business in April 2011.
For most business the premium or deduction rates can be re-set.
The Group has fully reinsured the UK insurance risk.
Epidemic disaster An unusually large number of claims arising Protection is provided through reinsurance.
The Group has fully reinsured from a single incident or event.
Expense Administration costs exceed expense allowance.
Administration is outsourced and a tariff of costs is agreed.
The contract is monitored regularly to rationalise costs incurred.
Internal overhead expenses are monitored and closely managed.
Retention Unexpected movement in future profit due to Retention of insurance contracts is closely monitored and unexpected more or less clients than anticipated experience is investigated.
Retention experience has continued in line withdrawing their funds.
Insurance contract liabilities 2016 2015 Million Million Balance at 1 January 463.5 474.4 Movement in unit linked liabilities 58.9 7.8 Movement in liabilities New business 0.2 Existing business 0.4 1.3 Other assumption changes 3.2 1.2 Experience variance 7.0 0.8 Total movement in liabilities 4.2 3.1 Balance at 31 December 518.2 463.5 Unit linked 435.4 376.5 Non-unit linked 82.8 87.0 518.2 463.5 Current 81.0 102.5 Non-current 437.2 361.0 518.2 463.5 See accounting policy ae for further information on the current and non-current disclosure.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 14.
INSURANCE LIABILITIES AND REINSURANCE ASSETS continued Reinsurance assets 2016 2015 Million Million Reconciliation of the movement in the net reinsurance balance: Reinsurance assets at 1 January 85.0 85.5 Reinsurance component of change in insurance liabilities 4.5 0.5 Reinsurance assets at 31 December 80.5 85.0 Current 12.6 24.2 Non-current 67.9 60.8 80.5 85.0 The overall impact of reinsurance on the profit for the year was a net charge of 5.7 million 2015: charge of 4.6 million.
Assumptions used in the calculation of Insurance liabilities and reassurance assets The principal assumptions used in the calculation of the liabilities are: Assumption Description Interest rate The valuation interest rate is calculated by reference to the long-term gilt yield at 31 December 2016.
The specific rates used are between 1.0% and 1.4% depending on the tax regime 1.7% and 2.2% at 31 December 2015.
Mortality Mortality is based on Company experience and is set at 72% of the TM F92 tables with an additional loading for smokers.
There has been no change since 2006.
Morbidity Morbidity is based on Company experience.
There has been no change during 2016.
Sample annual rates Critical Illness per for a male non-smoker are: Rate Age 2016 2015 25 0.000760 0.000760 35 0.001334 0.001334 45 0.003189 0.003189 Morbidity Morbidity is based on Company experience.
Sample annual rates per income benefit p. a. for a male Permanent Health Insurance non-smoker are: Rate Age 2016 2015 25 0.00366 0.00548 35 0.00965 0.01447 45 0.02092 0.03138 Expenses Contract liabilities are calculated allowing for the actual costs of administration of the business.
The assumption has been amended to allow for changes to the underlying administration costs.
Annual Cost Product 2016 2015 Protection business 36.75 36.01 Persistency Allowance is made for a prudent level of lapses within the calculation of the liabilities.
The rates have not changed in 2016.
Sample annual lapse rates are: Lapses 2015 and 2016 Year 1 Year 5 Year 10 Protection business 7% 9% 8% 154 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Sensitivity analysis The table below sets out the sensitivity of the profit on insurance business and net assets to changes in key assumptions.
The levels of sensitivity tested are consistent with those proposed in the EEV principles and reflect reasonably possible levels of change in the assumptions.
The analysis reflects the change in the variable assumption shown while all other variables assumptions are left unchanged.
In practice variables assumptions may change at the same time, as some may be correlated for example, an increase in interest rates may also result in an increase in expenses if the increase reflects higher inflation.
It should also be noted that in some instances sensitivities are non-linear.
The sensitivity % has been applied to proportion the assumption e. g. application of a 10% sensitivity to a withdrawal assumption of 8% will reduce it to 7.2%.
Change in Change in profit loss profit loss Change in Change in Change in before tax before tax net assets net assets Sensitivity analysis assumption 2016 2015 2016 2015 % Million Million Million Million Withdrawal rates -10% 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 Expense assumptions -10% 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.3 Mortality morbidity -5% 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 A change in interest rates will have no material impact on insurance profit or net assets.
OTHER PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Total provisions Million At 1 January 2016 15.4 Utilised during the year 8.8 Additional provisions 10.5 At 31 December 2016 17.1 Current 7.5 Non-current 9.6 17.1 Total provisions relate to the cost of redress for complaints and clawback of indemnity commission.
The provision for the cost of redress for complaints is based on estimates of the total number of complaints expected to be upheld, the estimated cost of redress and the expected timing of settlement.
The clawback provision is based on estimates of the indemnity commission that may be repaid.
As more fully set out in the summary of principal risks and uncertainties on pages 51 to 53, the Group could in the course of its business be subject to legal proceedings and or regulatory activity.
Should such an event arise, the Board would consider their best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation and, where appropriate and material, establish a provision.
While there can be no assurances that circumstances will not change, based upon information currently available to them, the Directors do not believe there is any possible activity or event that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
During the normal course of business, the Group may from time to time provide guarantees to Partners, clients or other third parties.
However, based upon the information currently available to them, the Directors do not believe there are any guarantees which would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, and so the fair value of any guarantees has been assessed as nil 2015: nil.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 16.
BORROWINGS AND FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Borrowings 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Bank borrowings 231.3 132.0 Loan notes 50.1 49.8 Total borrowings 281.4 181.8 Current 1.3 1.0 Non-current 280.1 180.8 281.4 181.8 In the prior year a 250 million revolving credit facility repayable over five years with a variable interest rate was entered into with a group of UK banks.
The Group initially drew down 125 million under the fully-committed facility, with an additional 100 million being drawn in the current year.
In addition, during the prior year, the Group entered into a US Dollar $160 million private shelf facility.
The Group authorised the issue of 50 million of loan notes during the prior year in relation to the aforementioned facility.
The notes were issued in Sterling, eliminating any Group currency risk.
The notes are repayable over ten years with a variable interest rate.
The Group also guarantees loans provided by third parties to Partners.
In the event of default of any individual Partner loan, the Group guarantees to repay the full amount of the loan, with the exception of Metro Bank plc, where 50% of the loan is guaranteed.
These loans are secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
The value of the loans guaranteed is as follows: Loans Drawn Facility 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 Million Million Million Million Bank of Scotland 54.0 77.2 80.0 90.0 Metro Bank plc 35.6 44.8 95.0 50.0 Santander plc 47.2 19.4 50.0 25.0 Total loans 136.8 141.4 225.0 165.0 The fair value of the outstanding borrowings and guarantees is not materially different from amortised cost.
Interest expense on borrowings is recognised within expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
Financial commitments The Group has commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in connection with the rental of office buildings and office equipment with varying lease end dates ranging from 2017 to 2041.
The following table represents the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Not later than one year 15.6 14.9 Later than one year and not later than five years 53.8 50.1 Later than five years 65.0 67.4 Total financial commitments 134.4 132.4 As at 31 December 2016, there was 0.2 million 2015: 0.1 million of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases.
156 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17.
FINANCIAL RISK Risk management objectives and risk policies The Groups financial risk can usefully be considered in two categories of assets: 1.
Assets backing unit liabilities see Note 10 : and 2.
In general, the policyholder bears the financial risk on assets backing the unitised business, and risk from shareholder assets is minimised through investment in liquid assets with a strong credit rating.
Exposure to the following risks for the two categories of assets is analysed separately in the following sections, in line with the requirements of IFRS 7: Credit risk Liquidity risk Market risk Currency risk Credit risk is the risk of loss due to a debtors non-payment of a loan or other line of credit.
Credit risk also arises from holdings of cash and cash equivalents, deposits and formal loans with banks and financial institutions.
The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to such risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting credit risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
Risk Description Management Shareholders assets Loss of assets or reduction in value Shareholder funds are predominantly invested in AAA rated unitised money market funds and deposits with approved banks, but may be invested in sovereign fixed interest securities such as UK gilts where regulatory constraints on other assets apply.
Maximum counterparty limits are set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Reinsurance Failure of counterparty or Credit ratings of potential reinsurers must meet or exceed minimum specified levels.
counterparty unable to Consideration is also given to size, risk concentrations exposures and ownership in the meet liabilities selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a spread of reinsurers.
Partner loans and Inability of Partners to repay loans Loans and advances are managed in line with the Groups secured lending policy.
Loans are advances or advances from St. Jamess Place secured on the future renewal income stream expected from a Partners portfolio and loan advances vary in relation to the projected future income of the relevant Partner.
Outstanding balances are regularly reviewed and assessed on a conservative basis.
Support is provided to help Partners manage their business appropriately.
Appropriate provision is made where there is objective evidence of impairment.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure such resources only at excessive cost.
The Group is averse to liquidity risk and seeks to minimise this risk by not actively pursuing it except where necessary to support other objectives.
Risk Description Management Cash or expense A significant cash or expense The majority of free assets are invested in cash or cash equivalents and the cash position and requirement requirement needs to be met at forecast are monitored on a monthly basis.
The Group also maintains a margin of free assets short notice.
in excess of the minimum required solvency capital within its regulated entities.
Further, the Group has established committed borrowing facilities see Note 16 intended to further mitigate liquidity risk.
Market risk is the impact a fall in the value of equity or other asset markets may have on the business.
The Group adopts a risk averse approach to market risk, with a stated solvency policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
However, the Group accepts the risk that the fall in equity or other asset markets will reduce the level of annual management charge income derived from policyholder assets and the risk of lower future profits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 157 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 17.
FINANCIAL RISK continued The table below summarises the main market risks that the business is exposed to and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Client liabilities As a result of a reduction in This risk is substantially mitigated by the Groups strategic focus on unitised business, by not equity values, the Group may be providing guarantees to clients on policy values and by the matching of assets and liabilities.
unable to meet client liabilities.
Tax In adverse market conditions, The tax position is monitored closely, in particular the size and sources of relevant when the Group is realising income streams.
investment losses rather than gains, the working of the I-E tax regime can lead to short-term capital inefficiencies, including the deferral of the cash benefit arising from tax relief on expenses.
Retention Loss of future profit on Retention of investment contracts is closely monitored and unexpected experience investment contracts due to variances are investigated.
Retention has remained consistently strong throughout 2016, more clients than anticipated despite volatile market conditions.
withdrawing their funds, particularly as a result of poor investment performance.
New business Poor performance in the The benefit to clients of longer term equity investment as part of a diversified portfolio of financial markets in absolute assets is fundamental to our philosophy.
Advice and marketing become even more terms, and relative to inflation, important when market values fall, and greater attention is required to support and give leads to existing and future confidence to existing and future clients in such circumstances.
This is taken account of by clients rejecting investment in the Group in its activities.
Currency risk The Group is not subject to any significant direct currency risk, since all material shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities are denominated in Sterling.
However, since future profits are dependent on charges based on FUM, changes in FUM as a result of currency movements will impact future profits.
158 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Shareholder Assets Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities The categories and carrying values of the financial assets and financial liabilities held in the Groups statement of financial position are summarised in the table below: Financial assets at Financial fair value liabilities through measured at profit and Loans and amortised 1 31 December 2016 loss receivables cost Total Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 47.7 47.7 2 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 867.4 867.4 3 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 212.2 212.2 Renewal income assets 58.9 58.9 Other 756.9 756.9 Total other receivables 58.9 969.1 1,028.0 Cash and cash equivalents 345.9 345.9 Total financial assets 974.0 1,315.0 2,289.0 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 281.4 281.4 Other payables 790.1 790.1 Total financial liabilities 1,071.5 1,071.5 Financial assets at Financial fair value liabilities through measured at profit and Loans and amortised 1 31 December 2015 loss receivables cost Total Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 83.1 83.1 2 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 531.0 531.0 3 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 178.7 178.7 Renewal income assets 26.8 26.8 Other 294.8 294.8 Total other receivables 26.8 473.5 500.3 Cash and cash equivalents 233.5 233.5 Total financial assets 640.9 707.0 1,347.9 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 181.8 181.8 Other payables 323.2 323.2 Total financial liabilities 505.0 505.0 1 All financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
2 All assets included as shareholder Investment in Collective Investment Schemes are holdings of high quality, highly liquid Money Market funds, containing assets which are cash and cash equivalents.
3 Other receivables excludes prepayments and unearned commission, which are not considered financial assets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 159 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 17.
FINANCIAL RISK continued Income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets and financial liabilities The income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets and financial liabilities are summarised in the table below: Financial assets at Financial fair value liabilities through measured at profit and Loans and amortised 1 Year Ended 31 December 2016 loss receivables cost Total Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 2.3 2.3 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2.9 2.9 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 6.3 6.3 Renewal income assets 6.1 6.1 Total other receivables 6.1 6.3 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 1.2 Total financial assets 0.9 7.5 6.6 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 4.9 4.9 Other payables 0.5 0.5 Total financial liabilities 5.4 5.4 Financial assets at Financial fair value liabilities through measured at profit and Loans and amortised 1 Year Ended 31 December 2015 loss receivables cost Total Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 1.1 1.1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 3.0 3.0 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 5.9 5.9 Renewal income assets 3.7 3.7 Total other receivables 3.7 5.9 2.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 1.4 Total financial assets 1.8 7.3 5.5 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 4.4 4.4 Other payables 0.7 0.7 Total financial liabilities 5.1 5.1 1 All financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
Losses have been recognised within the investment return line in the statement of comprehensive income.
160 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Fair value estimation Financial assets and liabilities, which are held at fair value in the financial statements, are required to have disclosed their fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : and Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: 31 December 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total balance Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 47.7 47.7 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 867.4 867.4 Renewal income assets 58.9 58.9 Total financial assets 867.4 47.7 58.9 974.0 Financial Liabilities Total financial liabilities 31 December 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total balance Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 83.1 83.1 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 531.0 531.0 Renewal income assets 26.8 26.8 Total financial assets 531.0 83.1 26.8 640.9 Financial Liabilities Total financial liabilities 1 All assets included as shareholder Investment in Collective Investment Schemes are holdings of high quality, highly liquid unitised money market funds, containing assets which are cash and cash equivalents.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted bid prices at the reporting date, as described in the accounting policy n. These instruments are included in Level 1.
Level 2 financial assets and liabilities are valued using observable prices for identical current arms length transactions.
The Renewal income assets are Level 3 and are valued using a discounted cash flow technique and the assumptions outlined in Note 12.
The effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions of a movement of 100bps on the discount rate and a 10% movement in the lapse rate would result in an unfavourable change in valuation of 5.4 million and a favourable change in valuation of 7.0 million, respectively.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year, nor into or out of Level 3.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 161 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 17.
FINANCIAL RISK continued Movement in Level 3 portfolios 31 December 31 December Renewal income assets 2016 2015 Million Million Opening balance 26.8 29.1 Additions during the year 38.2 1.4 Losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 6.1 3.7 Closing balance 58.9 26.8 Unrealised losses 6.1 3.7 Losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 6.1 3.7 Credit risk The following table sets out the maximum credit risk exposure and ratings of financial and other assets which are susceptible to credit risk: 31 December 2016 AAA AA A BBB Unrated Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Fixed income securities 4.8 42.9 47.7 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 867.4 867.4 Other receivables 86.8 941.2 1,028.0 Cash and cash equivalents 68.3 207.6 42.3 27.7 345.9 Total 872.2 198.0 207.6 42.3 968.9 2,289.0 1 Investment of shareholder assets in Collective Investment Schemes refers to investment in unitised money market funds, containing assets which are cash and cash equivalents.
31 December 2015 AAA AA A BBB Unrated Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Fixed income securities 3.9 79.2 83.1 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 531.0 531.0 Other receivables 85.0 415.3 500.3 Cash and cash equivalents 22.1 177.8 25.4 8.2 233.5 Total 534.9 186.3 177.8 25.4 423.5 1,347.9 Other receivables includes 212.2 million 2015: 178.7 million of loans to St. Jamess Place Partners, which are interest bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
Impairment of these loans is determined taking into account a range of factors including default history, the nature or type of the Partner loan, exposure levels to individual Partners and whether the individual Partner is active or has left.
The loan balance is presented net of a 3.3 million provision 2015: 3.0 million.
The movement in the impairment provision will reflect utilisation of the existing provision during the year, but the overall cost of impaired loans including new provisions recognised within administration expenses in the statement of comprehensive income during the year was a charge of 1.8 million 2015: 1.4 million.
The value of the loans that are past due but not impaired is not considered to be material and has therefore not been aged.
There are no other financial assets that are impaired, would originally have been past due or impaired but whose terms have been renegotiated, or are past due but not impaired.
162 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Contractual maturity and liquidity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 December 2016: Up to 1 1 5 Over 5 31 December 2016 year years years Total Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 47.7 47.7 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 867.4 867.4 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 62.5 114.2 35.5 212.2 Renewal income 10.1 26.1 22.7 58.9 Other 756.9 756.9 Total other receivables 829.5 140.3 58.2 1,028.0 Cash and cash equivalents 345.9 345.9 Total financial assets 2,090.5 140.3 58.2 2,289.0 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 1.3 228.0 53.4 282.7 Other payables 740.2 25.1 24.8 790.1 Total financial liabilities 741.5 253.1 78.2 1,072.8 Up to 1 1 5 Over 5 31 December 2015 year years years Total Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 40.7 42.4 83.1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 532.7 532.7 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 62.2 105.1 11.4 178.7 Renewal income 26.8 26.8 Other 294.8 294.8 Total other receivables 383.8 105.1 11.4 500.3 Cash and cash equivalents 233.5 233.5 Total financial assets 1,190.7 105.1 53.8 1,349.6 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 1.0 126.7 54.1 181.8 Other payables 269.7 5.2 48.3 323.2 Total financial liabilities 270.7 131.9 102.4 505.0 Sensitivity analysis to market risks Financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds primarily consist of fixed interest securities, units in money market funds, cash and cash equivalents, and other accounting assets and liabilities.
The fixed interest securities are short term and are held as an alternative to cash.
Similarly cash held in unitised money market funds and at bank is valued at par and is unaffected by movement in interest rates.
Other assets and liabilities are similarly unaffected by market movements.
As a result of these combined factors, the Groups financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds are not materially subject to market risk, and movements at the reporting date in interest rates and equity values have an immaterial impact on the Groups profit after tax and equity.
Future profits from annual management charges may be affected by movements in interest rates and equity values.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 163 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 17.
FINANCIAL RISK continued Unit liabilities and associated assets Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities Assets held to cover unit liabilities are summarised in Note 10, and all are held at fair value through profit or loss.
They are designated as such upon initial recognition.
The carrying value of the unit liabilities may differ from the amount contractually required to pay at maturity.
Maturity values of the financial liabilities vary with future client investment and withdrawals as well as investment return.
Future value also derives from credit for notional capital losses in some life insurance BLAGAB funds.
The contractual value required to be paid to unit holders as at 31 December 2016 would be 17.1 million lower than the liability reflected in the statement of financial position 2015: 9.6 million lower.
Income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets and financial liabilities The income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets and financial liabilities are summarised in the table below: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment properties 42.8 128.6 Other assets backing unit liabilities 7,456.7 1,396.0 Total financial assets and investment properties 7,499.5 1,524.6 2 Financial Liabilities Unit liabilities 6,336.8 973.8 Total financial liabilities 6,336.8 973.8 1 All financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
2 None of the change in the fair value of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss is attributable to changes in their credit risk.
Fair value estimation Financial assets and liabilities, which are held at fair value in the financial statements, are required to have disclosed their fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : or Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Total 31 December 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 balance Million Million Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment property 1,462.4 1,462.4 Equities 46,598.7 46,598.7 Fixed income securities 12,397.8 12,397.8 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2,996.0 1.4 2,997.4 Derivative financial instruments 729.1 729.1 Cash and cash equivalents 7,067.2 7,067.2 Total financial assets and investment properties 56,661.9 13,126.9 1,463.8 71,252.6 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 53,307.1 53,307.1 Derivative financial instruments 281.9 281.9 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 17,032.0 17,032.0 Total financial liabilities 17,032.0 53,589.0 70,621.0 164 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Total 31 December 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 balance Million Million Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment property 1,344.9 1,344.9 Equities 37,960.8 37,960.8 Fixed income securities 8,850.9 8,850.9 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2,735.9 2.7 2,738.6 Derivative financial instruments 364.1 364.1 Cash and cash equivalents 5,091.6 5,091.6 Total financial assets and investment properties 45,788.3 9,215.0 1,347.6 56,350.9 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 43,159.8 43,159.8 Derivative financial instruments 221.1 221.1 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 12,556.4 12,556.4 Total financial liabilities 12,556.4 43,380.9 55,937.3 In respect of the derivative financial liabilities, 171.1 million of collateral has been posted at 31 December 2016, comprising cash and treasury bills 2015: 97.4 million, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the derivative contracts.
The Group closely monitors the valuation of assets in markets that have become less liquid.
Determining whether a market is active requires the exercise of judgement and is determined based upon the facts and circumstances of the market for the instrument being measured.
Where it is determined that there is no active market, fair value is established using a valuation technique.
The techniques applied incorporate relevant information available and reflect appropriate adjustments for credit and liquidity risks.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
The relative weightings given to differing sources of information and the determination of non-observable inputs to valuation models can require the exercise of significant judgement.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
Note that all of the resulting fair value estimates are included in Level 2, except for certain equities and investments in Collective Investment Schemes CIS and investment properties as detailed below.
Specific valuation techniques used to value Level 2 financial assets and liabilities include: The use of observable prices for identical current arms length transactions, specifically: The fair value of unit linked liabilities is assessed by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value, at the reporting date: and The Groups derivative financial instruments are valued using valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
These consist of discounted cash flow and options pricing models, which typically incorporate observable market data, principally interest rates, basis spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and counterparty credit.
Specific valuation techniques used to value Level 3 financial assets and liabilities include: The use of unobservable inputs, such as expected rental values and equivalent yields: and Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow and historic lapse rates, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 165 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 17.
FINANCIAL RISK continued Transfers into and out of Level 3 portfolios Transfers out of Level 3 portfolios arise when inputs that could have a significant impact on the instruments valuation become market observable: conversely, transfers into the portfolios arise when consistent sources of data cease to be available.
Transfers in of certain equities and investments in Collective Investment Schemes CIS occur when asset valuations can no longer be obtained from an observable market price i. e. become illiquid, in liquidation, suspended, etc.
The converse is true if an observable market price becomes available.
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the profit and loss: Investment Year Ended 31 December 2016 property CIS Million Million Opening balance 1,344.9 2.7 Transfer into Level 3 0.4 Additions during the year 140.9 Disposed during the year Gains losses recognised in the income statement 23.4 1.7 Closing balance 1,462.4 1.4 Realised losses Unrealised gains 23.4 1.7 Gains losses recognised in the income statement 23.4 1.7 Investment Year Ended 31 December 2015 property CIS Million Million Opening balance 1,031.4 29.9 Transfer into Level 3 0.3 Additions during the year 253.8 Disposed during the year 14.3 27.4 Gains recognised in the income statement 74.0 0.1 Closing balance 1,344.9 2.7 Realised losses 5.8 Unrealised gains 79.8 0.1 Gains losses recognised in the income statement 74.0 0.1 Gains losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are included within investment return for certain equities and investments in Collective Investment Schemes and investment property.
166 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Level 3 valuations The principal assets classified as Level 3 are investment properties amounting to 1,462.4 million 2015: 1,344.9 million.
Investment property is initially measured at cost including related acquisition costs and subsequently valued monthly by professional external valuers at their respective fair values at each reporting date.
The fair values derived are based on anticipated market values for the properties in accordance with the guidance issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, being the estimated amount that would be received from a sale of the assets in an orderly transaction between market participants.
The valuation of investment property is inherently subjective as it requires, among other factors, assumptions to be made regarding the ability of existing tenants to meet their rental obligations over the entire life of their leases, the estimation of the expected rental income in to the future, an assessment of a propertys ability to remain as an attractive technical configuration to existing and prospective tenants in a changing market and a judgement to be reached on the attractiveness of a building, its location and the surrounding environment.
Investment property classification 31 December 2016 Office Industrial Retail & leisure All Gross ERV per sq ft Range 14.66 96.50 3.50 15.75 4.50 427.84 3.50 427.84 Weighted average 31.63 6.94 15.05 13.74 True equivalent yield Range 3.9% 8.4% 5.3% 7.3% 4.8% 13.6% 3.9% 13.6% Weighted average 5.4% 6.1% 5.9% 5.8% 31 December 2015 Gross ERV per sq ft Range 14.75 90.01 3.00 15.00 5.00 365.46 3.00 365.46 Weighted average 30.18 6.59 14.73 13.22 True equivalent yield Range 3.7% 8.0% 5.4% 7.1% 4.7% 13.1% 3.7% 13.1% Weighted average 5.4% 6.1% 6.0% 5.8% Equivalent rental value per square foot Sensitivity of Level 3 valuations The valuation of certain equities and investments in Collective Investment Schemes CIS are based on the latest observable price available.
Whilst such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing the price applied to a reasonably possible alternative would not change the fair value significantly.
The following table sets out the effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions to the valuation of the investment properties.
Any change in the value of investment property is matched by the associated movement in the policyholder liability and therefore would not impact on the shareholder net assets.
Effect of reasonable possible alternative assumptions Investment property Carrying Favourable Unfavourable significant unobservable inputs value changes changes Million Million Million 31 December 2016 Expected rental value Relative yield 1,462.4 1,598.3 1,341.9 31 December 2015 Expected rental value Relative yield 1,344.9 1,469.3 1,235.2 Credit risk Credit risk relating to unit liabilities is borne by the unit holders.
Contractual maturity and liquidity analysis Unit liabilities and the associated assets are deemed to have a maturity of up to one year since they are repayable and transferable on demand.
In practice the contractual maturities of the assets may be longer than one year, but the majority of assets held within the unit linked and unit trust funds are highly liquid and the Group also actively monitors fund liquidity.
Sensitivity analysis to market risks The majority of the Groups business is unitised and the direct associated market risk is therefore borne by policyholders.
For completeness, we note that there is an indirect risk associated with market performance as future shareholder income is dependent upon markets, however the direct risk has been mitigated through the Groups approach to matching assets and liabilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 167 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 18.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base in order to: Protect clients interests: Meet regulatory requirements: Protect creditors interests: and Create shareholder value through support for business development.
Within the Group, each subsidiary manages its own capital in the context of a Group capital plan.
Any capital in excess of planned requirements is returned to the Groups Parent, St. Jamess Place plc, normally by way of dividends.
The Group capital position is monitored by the Finance Executive Committee on behalf of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
The Groups policy is for each subsidiary to hold the higher of: The capital required by any relevant supervisory body uplifted by a specified margin to absorb changes: or The capital required based on the Companys internal assessment.
For our insurance companies, we hold capital based on our own internal assessment, albeit recognising the regulatory requirement.
For other regulated companies we generally hold capital based on the regulatory requirement uplifted by a specified margin.
The following entities are subject to regulatory supervision and have to maintain a minimum level of regulatory capital: Entity Regulatory Body and Jurisdiction St. Jamess Place UK plc PRA and FCA: Long-term insurance business St. Jamess Place International plc Central Bank of Ireland: Life insurance business St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited FCA: UCITS Management Company St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited FCA: Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PCIS Limited FCA: Securities and Futures Firm St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc FCA: Personal Investment Firm BFS Financial Services Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm LP Financial Management Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Hong Kong Limited Securities and Futures Commission Hong Kong : A Member of The Hong Kong Confederation of Insurance Brokers St. Jamess Place Singapore Private Limited Monetary Authority Singapore: A Member of the Association of Financial Advisers Rowan Dartington & Co Limited FCA: Investment Firm In addition, the St. Jamess Place Group is regulated as an Insurance Group under Solvency II, with the PRA as the lead regulator.
As an insurance group, St. Jamess Place is subject to the Solvency II regulations, which were implemented on 1 January 2016.
More information about the impact of the implementation of Solvency II is included in the Financial Review on page 43 and in the separate Solvency and Financial Condition Report document.
The overall capital position for the Group at 31 December 2016, assessed on the Standard Formula basis, is presented in the following table: 31 December 2016 Group Million IFRS total assets 75,022.1 Less Solvency II valuation adjustments and unit linked liabilities 73,952.1 Solvency II net assets 1,070.0 Management Solvency Buffer MSB 527.0 Excess of free assets over MSB 543.0 Solvency II VIF 2,707.9 Risk margin 779.2 Standard formula SCR A 2,046.5 Sub-total 117.8 Solvency II Free Assets B 952.2 Solvency II ratio A B A 147% An overall internal capital assessment is required for insurance groups.
This is known as an ORSA Own Risk and Solvency Assessment and is described in more detail in the section on Risk and Risk Management on page 49.
168 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information The capital requirement and the associated solvency of the Group are assessed and monitored by the Finance Executive Committee, a Committee of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
The regulatory requirements for the remaining companies within the Group are assessed and monitored by the relevant subsidiary boards.
Although there has been a significant change in the approach to assessing required capital during the year as a result of Solvency II, there has been no material change in the level of capital required, or in the Groups management of capital.
All regulated entities exceeded the minimum solvency requirements at the reporting date and during the year.
Capital composition The principal forms of capital are included in the following balances on the consolidated statement of financial position: 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Share capital 79.1 78.7 Share premium 164.5 158.3 Shares in trust reserve 20.9 18.5 Miscellaneous reserves 2.5 2.3 Retained earnings 851.2 874.6 Shareholders equity 1,076.4 1,095.4 Non-controlling interests 0.8 0.3 Total equity 1,075.6 1,095.1 The above assets do not all qualify as regulatory capital.
The required minimum regulatory capital and analysis of the assets that qualify as regulatory capital are outlined in Section 4 of the Financial Review on page 39, which demonstrates that the Group has met its internal capital objectives.
The Group and its individually regulated operations have complied with all externally and internally imposed capital requirements throughout the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 169 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 19.
SHARE CAPITAL, EARNINGS PER SHARE AND DIVIDENDS Share Capital Number of Ordinary Called up Shares Share Capital Million At 1 January 2015 519,447,391 77.9 Issue of share capital 206,366 Exercise of options 5,011,455 0.8 At 31 December 2015 524,665,212 78.7 Issue of share capital 108,819 Exercise of options 2,708,317 0.4 At 31 December 2016 527,482,348 79.1 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 605 million 2015: 605 million, with a par value of 15 pence per share 2015: 15 pence per share.
All issued shares are fully paid.
Included in the issued share capital are 3,954,525 2015: 3,605,740 shares held in the Shares in Trust Reserve with a nominal value of 0.6 million 2015: 0.5 million.
The shares are held by the SJPC Employee Share Trust and the St. Jamess Place 2010 SIP Trust to satisfy certain share-based payment schemes.
The trustees of the SJPC Employee Share Trust retain the right to dividends on the shares held by the Trust but have chosen to waive their entitlement to the dividends on 1,330,156 shares during 2016 and 1,727,510 shares during 2015.
No dividends have been waived on shares held in the St. Jamess Place 2010 SIP Trust in 2016 or 2015.
The number of shares reserved for issue under options and contracts for sale of shares, including terms and conditions, is included within Note 20.
Earnings per Share Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Earnings Profit after tax attributable to equity shareholders for both basic and diluted EPS 112.2 202.0 Million Million Weighted average number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic EPS 522.6 519.1 Adjustments for outstanding share options 3.3 5.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted EPS 525.9 524.3 Pence Pence Earnings per share EPS Basic earnings per share 21.5 38.9 Diluted earnings per share 21.3 38.5 Dividends The following dividends have been paid by the Group: Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 2016 2015 Pence per Pence per Million Million Share Share Final dividend in respect of previous financial year 17.24 14.37 90.4 74.8 Interim dividend in respect of current financial year 12.33 10.72 64.8 56.0 Total dividends 29.57 25.09 155.2 130.8 The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 20.67 pence per share 2015: 17.24 pence.
This amounts to 109 million 2015: 90.4 million and will, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, be paid on 12 May 2017 to those shareholders on the register as at 7 April 2017.
170 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 20.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group operated a number of different equity and cash settled share-based payment arrangements, which are aggregated as follows: SAYE plan this is a standard HMRC approved scheme that is available to all employees where individuals may contribute up to 250 per month over three years to purchase shares at a price not less than 80% of the market price at the date of the invitation to participate: Share incentive plan SIP this is an HMRC approved scheme which is available to all employees where individuals may invest up to an annual limit of 1,500 of pre-tax salary in SJP shares, to which the Company will add a further 10%.
If the shares are held for five years, then they may be sold free of income tax or CGT: Executive deferred bonus schemes under these plans the deferred element of the annual bonus is used to purchase shares at market value in the Company.
The shares are held by the Company until vesting after three years and, in addition to the performance targets, which apply prior to any entitlement being granted, further performance conditions may also apply on vesting: Executive performance share plan the Remuneration Committee of the Group Board may make awards of performance shares to the Executive Directors and other senior managers.
Two-thirds of shares awarded to Directors are subject to an earnings growth condition of the Group and one-third of shares awarded to Directors are subject to a comparative total shareholder return TSR condition, both measured over a three-year period.
Further information regarding the vesting conditions of the earnings growth and total shareholder return dependent portions of the award is given in the Remuneration Report on page 98.
Awards made to senior managers are largely only subject to the earnings growth condition of the Group: Partner share option schemes these were offered to the Partners of the St. Jamess Place Partnership and vest over three to six years subject to satisfying personal new business related performance criteria.
The last award under these schemes was made in 2007: Partner performance share plan under this plan Partners are entitled to purchase shares in the future at nominal value 15 pence.
The number of shares the Partners are entitled to purchase will depend on their personal business volumes in the year of the award and validation over the following three years.
The last award under this scheme was made in 2010: Partner and Adviser chartered plan - a new scheme was launched during 2015 as part of the Partner performance share plan whereby Partners and Advisers are entitled to purchase shares in the future at nominal value 15 pence.
The number of shares the Partners are entitled to purchase will depend upon achieving specific professional qualifications and new business levels in a specified twelve month period and validation over the following three years.
The first award under these schemes was made in 2016: and Restricted share plan upon acquisition of the Rowan Dartington Group a new scheme was launched for eligible employees.
Employees were granted shares, 50% of which vest after 18 months, and the remaining 50% vest after three years providing the individual remains in employment within the SJP Group and maintains any applicable professional qualifications.
Share options outstanding under the various share option schemes, together with shares due under the deferred bonus schemes at 31 December 2016, amount to 11.5 million shares 2015: 7.1 million.
Of these, 5.4 million 2015: 1.1 million are under option to Partners of the St. Jamess Place Partnership, 4.7 million 2015: 4.7 million are under option to executives and senior management including 1.3 million 2015: 1.5 million under option to Directors as disclosed in the Remuneration Report, on pages 108 to 110, 0.3 million 2015: nil are under option to employees who became employees of the Group on acquisition of the Rowan Dartington Group and 1.1 million 2015: 1.2 million are under option through the SAYE and SIP schemes.
These are exercisable on a range of future dates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 171 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 20.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued The table below summarises the share-based payment awards made in 2015 and 2016: Executive Executive Partner Share Deferred Performance and Adviser Restricted SAYE Incentive Plan Bonus Share Plan Chartered Plan Share Plan Awards in 2015: Date of grant 25 March and 26 March 26 March 26 March and 25 September 15 September Number granted 637,327 5,245 675,097 729,506 Contractual life 3.5 years 3 years 3 years 3.5 6 years Vesting conditions 3 year saving 3 year saving 3 years service 3 years service period period and achievement and achievement of personal of earnings and targets in some TSR targets instances Awards in 2016: Date of grant 24 March 24 March 24 March 24 March and 29 July 29 July 26 September Number granted 460,065 5,591 613,382 857,125 5,374,449 323,300 Contractual life 3.5 years 3 years 3 years 3.5 6 years 3.5 years 3.5 years Vesting conditions 3 year saving 3 year saving 3 years service 3 years service 3 year saving 3 year saving period period and achievement and achievement period period of personal of earnings and targets in some TSR targets instances Financial assumptions underlying the calculation of fair value The fair value expense has been based on the fair value of the instruments granted, as calculated using appropriate derivative pricing models.
The table below shows the weighted average assumptions and models used to calculate the grant date fair value of each award: Executive Executive Partner Share Deferred Performance and Adviser Restricted SAYE Incentive Plan Bonus Share Plan Chartered Plan Share Plan Black Black Black Monte Black Black Valuation model Scholes Scholes Scholes Carlo Scholes Scholes Awards in 2015 2 4 Fair value pence 263.3 161.4 979.0 979.0 982.5 979.0 5 Share price pence 990.0 836.6 979.0 979.0 979.0 Exercise price pence 738.0 724.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 Expected volatility % pa 25 25 N A N A 25 3 Expected dividends % pa 2.4 3.0 N A N A N A Risk-free interest rate % pa 0.7 0.9 N A N A N A Volatility of competitors % pa N A N A N A 18 to 48 Correlation with competitors % N A N A N A 20 Awards in 2016 Fair value pence 250.7 935.5 935.5 493.9 935.5 822.0 894.0 Share price pence 935.5 935.5 935.5 935.5 920.0 894.0 Exercise price pence 687.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 15.0 0.0 1 Expected volatility % pa 27.0 N A N A 27.0 29.0 N A Expected dividends % pa 3.0 N A N A N A 3.2 N A Risk-free interest rate % pa 0.6 N A N A N A 0.1 N A Volatility of competitors % pa N A N A N A 17 to 44 N A N A Correlation with competitors % N A N A N A 20.0 N A N A Notes: 1 Expected volatility is based on an analysis of the Companys historic share price volatility over a period typically three or five years which is commensurate with the expected term of the options or the awards.
2 In 2015 and 2016, the vesting period for the SAYE plan was three years.
The vesting period may be extended by up to six months in order to catch up on missed contributions.
3 Dividends payable on the shares during the restricted period are paid out during the restricted period for the executive deferred bonus schemes and no dividend yield assumption is therefore required.
4 The awards made under the executive performance share plan are dependent upon earnings growth in the Company two-thirds of the award and a total shareholder return of a comparator group of companies one-third of the award.
This results in having two fair values for each of the awards made in the table above, the first being in relation to the comparator total shareholder return and the second relating to the Companys earnings growth.
5 Awards were made under the executive performance share plan on two separate occasions during 2016 2015: two.
172 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2016 2015 2015 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted options average options average exercise price exercise price SAYE Outstanding at start of year 1,162,588 6.15 1,458,774 3.86 Granted 460,065 7.48 637,327 7.30 Forfeited 272,877 7.19 88,461 5.52 Exercised 319,073 3.53 845,052 2.82 Outstanding at end of year 1,030,703 7.28 1,162,588 6.15 Exercisable at end of year 786 4.04 108,103 2.75 Executive Share Options Outstanding at start of year 54,270 2.43 Exercised 54,270 2.43 Outstanding at end of year Partner Share Options Outstanding at start of year 1,146,226 3.35 3,407,365 2.91 Granted Forfeited Exercised 1,127,126 3.33 2,261,139 2.69 Outstanding at end of year 19,100 4.55 1,146,226 3.35 Exercisable at end of year 19,100 4.55 1,146,226 3.35 The average share price during the year was 914.6 pence 2015: 921.5 pence.
The SAYE plan options outstanding at 31 December 2016 had exercise prices of 404 pence 786 options, 676 pence 207,521 options, 792 pence 197,458 options, 669 pence 181,693, 748 pence 436,624 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.1 years.
The options outstanding under the Partner share option schemes at 31 December 2016 had exercise prices ranging from 438 pence to 465 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.2 years.
Share Incentive Plan nil cost option no proceeds on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at start of year 24,892 23,069 Granted 5,591 5,245 Forfeited 825 879 Exercised 2,402 2,543 Outstanding at end of year 27,256 24,892 Exercisable at end of year 13,134 3,711 Executive Performance Share Plan nil cost option no proceeds on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at start of year 3,187,940 5,212,411 Granted 857,125 729,506 Forfeited 98,535 245,272 Exercised 993,261 2,508,705 Outstanding at end of year 2,953,269 3,187,940 Exercisable at end of year 514,297 310,188 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 173 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 20.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Partner Performance Share Plan 15 pence per share on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at start of year 15,000 95,500 Granted Forfeited Exercised 15,000 80,500 Outstanding at end of year 15,000 Exercisable at end of year 15,000 Partner and Adviser Chartered Plan 15 pence per share on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at start of year Granted 5,374,449 Forfeited 7,512 Exercised Outstanding at end of year 5,366,937 Exercisable at end of year Executive Deferred Bonus nil cost option no proceeds on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Number of Number of shares shares Outstanding at start of year 1,658,301 1,676,958 Granted 613,382 675,097 Forfeited 12,789 26,339 Exercised 425,458 667,415 Outstanding at end of year 1,833,436 1,658,301 Exercisable at end of year Restricted Share Plan nil cost option no proceeds on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Number of Number of shares shares Outstanding at start of year Granted 323,300 Forfeited 1,440 Exercised Outstanding at end of year 321,860 Exercisable at end of year 174 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Early exercise assumptions The following allowance has been made for the impact of early exercise once options have vested: 1.
SAYE plan all option holders are assumed to exercise halfway through the six month exercise window.
Executive, sales management and partner share option schemes it is assumed that 10% of option holders exercise their options each year irrespective of the level of the share price.
For the remainder it is assumed that one-half will exercise their options each year if the share price is at least 33% above the exercise price.
Allowance for performance conditions The executive performance share plan includes a market based performance condition based on the Companys total shareholder return relative to an index of comparator companies.
The impact of this performance condition has been modelled using Monte Carlo simulation techniques, which involve running many thousands of simulations of future share price movements for both the Company and the comparator index.
For the purpose of these simulations it is assumed that the share price of the Company and the comparator index are 20% 2015: 20% correlated and that the comparator index has volatilities ranging between 17% p. a. to 44% p. a.
The performance condition is based on the Companys performance relative to the comparator index over a three-year period commencing on 1 January each year.
The fair value calculations for the awards that were made in 2016 therefore include an allowance for the actual performance of the Companys share price relative to the index over the period between 1 January 2016 and the various award dates.
Charge to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income The table below sets out the charge to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the share-based payment awards: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Equity settled share-based payment expense 22.7 14.7 Cash settled share-based payment expense 1.2 1.0 Total share-based payment expense 23.9 15.7 Liability recognised in the statement of financial position The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of the cash settled share-based payment awards is as follows.
This liability is included within other payables on the face of the statement of financial position.
None of the liability at 31 December 2016 or 31 December 2015 is in respect of vested cash settled share-based payments: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Liability for cash settled share-based payments 3.1 1.6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 175 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 21. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DISPOSALS Business combinations During the year the Group acquired the following subsidiaries in line with the Groups strategic objective of broadening the business model, expanding the client proposition and growing the Partnership: % Date of Subsidiary undertaking Principal activity Shareholding acquisition Rowan Dartington Group Rowan Dartington Holdings Limited Holding Company 100% 08 03 2016 Rowan Dartington & Co Limited Stockbroker and Investment Manager 100% 08 03 2016 Stafford House Investments Limited Independent Financial Adviser 100% 08 03 2016 Ardan International Limited Investment Platform 92.5% 08 03 2016 Dartington Portfolio Nominees Limited Non-trading 100% 08 03 2016 Rowan Dartington Trustees Limited Non-trading 100% 08 03 2016 RD Portfolio Nominees Limited Non-trading 100% 08 03 2016 Colston Portfolio Nominees Limited Non-trading 100% 08 03 2016 Cabot Portfolio Nominees Limited Non-trading 100% 08 03 2016 Ardan Nominees Limited Non-trading 100% 08 03 2016 Others Technical Connection Limited Tax and Advisory Services 100% 18 04 2016 Now Financial Solutions Limited Independent Financial Adviser 100% 29 04 2016 Post acquisition, Now Financial Solutions Limited changed its name to Hale Financial Solutions Limited.
Acquisition-related costs of 0.2 million have been charged to administration expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Rowan Dartington Group The Rowan Dartington Group acquisition contributed 9.8 million to revenue and a 3.9 million loss before income tax for the period between the acquisition date and the statement of financial position date.
Had the above acquisitions been consolidated from 1 January 2016, they would have contributed 11.4 million to revenue and a 4.8 million loss before income tax to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period.
The net assets, fair value adjustments and consideration for these acquisitions are summarised below all values shown as at their acquisition dates : Fair value Book value adjustment Total Million Million Million Financial assets 7.8 39.1 46.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 1.2 Financial liabilities 7.6 6.6 14.2 Total 1.4 32.5 33.9 Consideration Cash consideration 19.9 Deferred consideration 7.2 Contingent consideration 6.8 Total consideration 33.9 It is expected that the contingent consideration will be paid in full with no changes to the amount initially recognised: however, should the target number of Investment Executives not be met, the contingent consideration will decrease on a pro-rata basis down to a value of nil.
Of the remaining balance to be settled at acquisition, a further 2.4 million was settled on 6 September 2016 and the Group expects that 2.4 million will be settled by 9 March 2017, 5.7 million by 6 September 2017 and 3.5 million by 8 March 2019.
176 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other acquisitions The net assets, fair value adjustments and consideration for these acquisitions are summarised below all values shown as at their acquisition dates : Fair value Book value adjustment Total Million Million Million Financial assets 0.3 2.2 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 0.9 Financial liabilities 0.5 0.4 0.9 Total 0.7 1.8 2.5 Consideration Cash consideration 3.8 Deferred consideration 0.3 Contingent consideration 2.1 Total consideration 6.2 Goodwill 3.7 Goodwill comprises the value placed on the experience and expertise of the Technical Connection Limited management team within the tax and advisory sector.
Of the 2.1 million contingent consideration, 1.2 million is in relation to the acquisition of Technical Connection Limited.
It is expected that the 1.2 million contingent consideration will be paid in full with no changes to the amount initially recognised: however, should the target number of consultancy hours provided to SJP Partners and the level of Techlink subscriptions not be met, the contingent consideration will decrease on a pro-rata basis down to a value of nil.
The remaining 0.9 million contingent consideration is in relation to the acquisition of Now Financial Solutions Limited now Hale Financial Solutions Limited and is payable if certain performance targets are met, being based on the individual Partner performance.
It is expected that the 0.9 million contingent consideration will be paid in full with no changes to the amount initially recognised: however, should the performance targets not be met, the contingent consideration will decrease on a pro-rata basis down to a value of nil.
Of the total remaining balance to be settled, the Group expects that 0.4 million will be settled by 29 April 2017, 0.8 million will be settled by 18 April 2018, 0.4 million will be settled by 29 April 2018 and 0.8 million will be settled by 18 April 2019.
Disposals During the year the Group sold 100% of its investments in the following subsidiaries in line with the Groups objective to simplify the Group structure and remove non-core operations: Net assets Date of on date of Profit loss Subsidiary undertaking Principal activity disposal disposal on disposal Million Million Ardan International Limited Investment Platform 30 12 2016 4.0 nil Ardan Nominees Limited Non-trading 30 12 2016 nil St. Jamess Place Trust Company Jersey Limited Trustee Services 21 06 2016 0.1 0.1 In line with IFRS 3, no gain or loss arose on the sale of Ardan International Limited and its subsidiary as it was sold within the twelve month adjustment period following acquisition, resulting in a fair value adjustment being processed in the business combination note resulting in the reduction of goodwill.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 177 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 22.
INTERESTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES Unconsolidated structured entities The Group operates investment vehicles, such as unit trusts, primarily to match unit holder liabilities.
The investment vehicles are primarily financed by investments from unit holders.
Note 2 sets out the judgements inherent in determining when the Group controls, and therefore consolidates, the relevant investment vehicles.
The majority of the risk from a change in the value of the Groups investment in unconsolidated unit trusts is matched by a change in policyholder liabilities.
However, the maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying value of the investment, with the balance being included within investments in Collective Investment Schemes.
At 31 December 2016, the total net asset value of unconsolidated unit trusts in which the Group held a beneficial interest was 2,857.5 million 2015: 2,702.4 million.
The following unit trusts are not consolidated within the Group financial statements: however, the Group does act as the manager of these unit trusts.
Net asset value as at % of ownership interest 31 December Nature of Measurement Name of entity 2016 2015 relationship method 2016 2015 Million Million St. Jamess Place Property Unit Trust 0.00 0.00 Manager of N A 1,005.0 859.2 unit trust St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust 10.72 9.64 Manager of Fair value 1,852.5 1,843.2 unit trust through profit or loss 2,857.5 2,702.4 As at 31 December 2016 the value of the Groups interests in the individual unconsolidated unit trusts were nil 2015: nil in St. Jamess Place Property Unit Trust and 198.6 million 2015: 177.7 million in St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust.
Associates The following unit trust, registered in England and Wales, is not consolidated within the Group financial statements: however it does meet the criteria of an associate.
Net asset value as at % of ownership interest 31 December Nature of Measurement Name of entity 2016 2015 relationship method 2016 2015 Million Million St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust 10.72 9.64 Manager of Fair value 1,852.5 1,843.2 unit trust through profit or loss 1,852.5 1,843.2 178 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 23.
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Principal subsidiaries: Investment Holding Companies St. Jamess Place Investments plc St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group plc St. Jamess Place DFM Holdings Limited Life Assurance St. Jamess Place UK plc St. Jamess Place International plc incorporated in Ireland # Unit Trust Management St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited Unit Trust Administration and ISA Management St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited Distribution St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc Management Services St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited IFA Acquisitions St. Jamess Place Acquisition Services Limited Asia Distribution St. Jamess Place International Distribution Limited Discretionary Fund Management Rowan Dartington & Co Limited Directly held by St. Jamess Place plc.
The Company also operates a branch in the Republic of Ireland.
# The Company also operates a branch in Singapore.
The Company owns either directly or indirectly 100% of the voting ordinary equity share capital of the above-named subsidiaries, as such they have been appropriately consolidated.
Ongoing solvency requirements within the life assurance, unit trust and financial services companies of the Group restrict their ability to distribute all their distributable reserves.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 179 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 23.
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS continued Included below and on the following page is a full list of the entities within the St. Jamess Place plc Group at 31 December 2016: Company Country of Audit Entity number Registered office incorporation Principal activity exemption Australian Expatriate Services Limited 01954254 1st Floor, Henley Building, Hong Kong Overseas Distribution No 5 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong BFS Financial Services Limited 04609753 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Cabot Portfolio Nominees Limited 03636010 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes Chapman Associates Limited 03047530 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Chapman Hunter Group Limited 06034452 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Colston Portfolio Nominees Limited 02763967 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes Dartington Portfolio Nominees Limited 01489542 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes G. M. B.
Financial Services Limited 04074782 England and Wales Non-trading Yes Hale Financial Solutions Limited 04373946 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Lansdown Place Group 06390547 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, England and Wales Holding Company Yes Holdings Limited Bristol, England, BS8 2AL, United Kingdom LP Auto Enrolment Solutions Limited 08257531 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, England and Wales Pension AutoYes Bristol, England, BS8 2AL, enrolment United Kingdom LP Financial Management Limited 02195886 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Bristol, England, BS8 2AL, United Kingdom LP Holdco Limited 08323278 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, England and Wales Holding Company No Bristol, England, BS8 2AL, United Kingdom Lansdown Place Wealth 05458948 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Management Limited Bristol, England, BS8 2AL, United Kingdom M. H. S. Holdings Limited 0559995 England and Wales Non-trading Yes PFPTime Limited 04047197 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes RD Portfolio Nominees Limited 02752124 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes Rowan Dartington & Co. Limited 02752304 England and Wales Stockbroker and No Investment Manager Rowan Dartington Holdings Limited 07470226 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Rowan Dartington Trustees Limited 05224173 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes SJP AESOP Trustees Limited 04089795 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes SJPC Corporate Investments Limited 01476292 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Stafford House Investments Limited 03866935 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes St. Jamess Place Hong Kong Limited 0275275 1st Floor, Henley Building, Hong Kong Overseas Distribution No 5 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong St. Jamess Place PCP Limited 02706684 England and Wales Transacts and Services No SJP Income Streams St. Jamess Place Properties Limited 06890166 England and Wales Non-trading Yes St. Jamess Place Shanghai Limited 310000400640051 Unit 2006-2007, Tower 1 China Overseas Distribution No North, 1515 West Nanjing Road, Jingan, China St. Jamess Place Singapore 200406398R 80 Raffles Place, #26-01 Singapore Financial Advice No Private Limited UOB Plaza, Singapore 048624, Singapore St. Jamess Place Acquisition 07730835 England and Wales IFA Acquisitions Yes Services Limited St. Jamess Place Client 05487108 England and Wales Policy Administration Yes Solutions Limited St. Jamess Place Corporate 09131866 England and Wales Corporate Secretary Yes Secretary Limited St. Jamess Place DFM Holdings Limited 09687687 England and Wales Non-trading Yes St. Jamess Place EIS Limited 10110255 England and Wales Non-trading Yes 180 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Company Country of Audit Entity number Registered office incorporation Principal activity exemption St. Jamess Place International 2207694 1 F Henley Building, 5 Hong Kong Life Assurance No Hong Kong Limited Queens Road Central, Hong Kong St. Jamess Place International Assurance 02727326 England and Wales Holding Company No Group Limited St. Jamess Place International 08798683 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Distribution Limited St. Jamess Place International plc 185345 Fleming Court, Flemings Ireland Life Assurance No Place, Dublin 4, Ireland St. Jamess Place Investment 08764231 England and Wales Unit Trust No Administration Limited Administration and ISA Manager St. Jamess Place Investments plc 01773177 England and Wales Holding Company Yes St. Jamess Place Management Services 02293151 1st Floor, Henley Building, Hong Kong Management Services No Asia Limited 5 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong St. Jamess Place Management 2661044 England and Wales Management Services No Services Limited St. Jamess Place Nominees Limited 08764214 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes St. Jamess Place Partnership 08201211 England and Wales Treasury Company No Services Limited St. Jamess Place S. A. B17089 c o Vistra Luxembourg Luxembourg Non-trading Yes Sarl, 15 Rue Edward Steichen, 4th Floor, Luxembourg, L-2540 St. Jamess Place UK plc 02628062 England and Wales Life Assurance No St. Jamess Place Unit Trust 0947644 England and Wales Unit Trust No Group Limited Management St. Jamess Place Wealth 06604824 England and Wales Securities and Futures No Management PCIS Limited Firm St. Jamess Place Wealth 1511517 1st Floor, Henley Building, Hong Kong Overseas Distribution No Management Shanghai Limited 5 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong St. Jamess Place Wealth 02627518 England and Wales Holding Company No Management Group plc St. Jamess Place Wealth 201323453N 80 Raffles Place, #26-01 Singapore Holding Company No Management International Pte.
Ltd UOB Plaza, Singapore 048624, Singapore St. Jamess Place Wealth 04113955 England and Wales UK Distribution No Management plc Technical Connection Limited 03178474 England and Wales Tax and Advisory Yes Services Indicates that the Registered Office is St. Jamess Place House, 1 Tetbury Road, Cirencester, Gloucestershire GL7 1FP Where indicated above, the subsidiaries of St. Jamess Place plc have taken advantage of the exemption from statutory audit granted by section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.
In accordance with section 479C, St. Jamess Place plc has therefore guaranteed all the outstanding liabilities as at 31 December 2016.
All Group companies have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
Unless otherwise stated, the tax residency of each subsidiary is the same as the country of incorporation.
100% of the ordinary share capital is held for the above subsidiaries with the exception of LP Holdco Limited 08323278, where 43.32% of ordinary share capital is held comprising 100% of the nominal value of the Class A ordinary shares and 64% of the nominal value of the Class C ordinary shares, which together confer 60% of voting rights, and Lansdown Place Group Holdings Limited 06390547, where 92.4% of the ordinary share capital is held by LP Holdco Limited comprising 95% of the nominal value of the Class A ordinary shares, 100% of the nominal value of the Class B and D ordinary shares, and 71% of the nominal value of the Class C shares.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 181 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS continued 23.
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS continued In addition, the Group financial statements consolidate the following unit trusts, all of which are registered in England and Wales: St. Jamess Place Allshare Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Alternative Assets Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Asia Pacific Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Balanced Managed Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Continental European Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Diversified Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Emerging Markets Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Equity Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Ethical Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Gilts Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Emerging Markets Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Equity Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Smaller Companies Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Greater European Progressive Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Index Linked Gilts Unit Trust St. Jamess Place International Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place International Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Investment Grade Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Managed Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Money Market Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Multi Asset Unit Trust St. Jamess Place North American Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Strategic Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Strategic Managed Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK & General Progressive Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK & International Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Absolute Return Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Worldwide Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Worldwide Opportunities Unit Trust 182 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 24.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions with St. Jamess Place unit trusts In respect of the non-consolidated St. Jamess Place managed unit trusts that are held as investments in the St. Jamess Place life and pension funds, there was a charge recognised of 0.3 million 2015: 10.1 million income and the total value of transactions with those non-consolidated unit trusts was 53.0 million 2015: 43.0 million.
Net management fees receivable from these unit trusts amounted to 17 million 2015: 22.3 million.
The value of the investment into the non-consolidated unit trusts at 31 December 2016 was 198.6 million 2015: 176.5 million.
These transactions are all with the Groups associate as set out in Note 22.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel have been defined as the Board of Directors and members of the Executive Board.
The remuneration paid to the Board of Directors of St. Jamess Place is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 103, in addition to the disclosure below.
The Remuneration Report also sets out transactions with the Directors under the Deferred Bonus Scheme, the Performance Share Plan, the Executive Share Option Scheme and the SAYE Share Option Schemes, together with details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company.
The remuneration paid to key management personnel is as follows: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2016 2015 Million Million Short term employee benefits 3.5 3.2 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Other long-term benefits 1.9 1.6 Share-based payment 1.9 1.6 Total 7.7 6.8 The charge to the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the share-based payment awards made to the key management personnel of St. Jamess Place was 3.4 million 2015: 3.7 million.
The total value of St. Jamess Place funds under management held by related parties of the Group as at 31 December 2016 was 26.5 million 2015: 20.4 million.
The total value of St. Jamess Place plc dividends paid to related parties of the Group during the year was 1.4 million 2015: 1.3 million.
Commission, advice fees and remuneration of 2.9 million 2015: 1.7 million was paid, under normal commercial terms, to St. Jamess Place Partners and employees who were related parties by virtue of being connected persons with key management personnel.
The outstanding amount payable at 31 December 2016 was 0.3 million 2015: 0.1 million.
Outstanding at the year end were Partner loans of 1.6 million 2015: 0.4 million due from St. Jamess Place Partners who were related parties by virtue of being connected persons with key management personnel.
During the year 0.7 million 2015: 0.1 million was advanced and 0.3 million 2015: 0.1 million was repaid by Partners who were related parties.
St. Jamess Place Partnership loans are interest bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured against the future renewal income streams of that Partner.
At the start of the year, related parties of key management personnel held nil 2015: 176,740 shares and options under various St. Jamess Place plc share option schemes.
During the year 28,273 2015: 23,413 shares and options were granted, nil 2015: 1,235 options lapsed and nil 2015: 113,568 options were exercised.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 183 184 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
