Glossary of terms Active management added value the component of property revaluations delivered as a direct result of management actions and initiatives, for example obtaining planning consent, achieving remediation milestones and improving lease terms.
Adjusted gearing the level of the Groups net borrowings at amortised cost and excluding finance leases expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Average lease length the weighted average lease term to the first tenant break.
Cost cover ratio the ratio of recurring rental and other income to operating costs excluding direct overheads incurred by St. Modwen Homes.
EPRA the European Public Real Estate Association, a body that has put forward recommendations for best practice in financial reporting by real estate companies.
EPRA net asset value EPRA NAV the Group balance sheet net assets, adjusted to include the fair value of inventories and exclude deferred tax on capital allowances and revaluations, and mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments.
EPRA net asset value per share EPRA net asset value divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end excluding shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust.
EPRA triple net asset value EPRA NNNAV the Group balance sheet net assets, adjusted to include the fair value of inventories.
Equivalent yield a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce based on the timing of the income received.
Estimated rental value ERV the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of the property.
Gearing the level of the Groups net debt expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Gross development value GDV the sale value of property after construction.
High yielding portfolio income generating assets with high yields that provide the Group with opportunity for further development and value creation in the longer term.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards.
Initial yield the annualised net rent of a property expressed as a percentage of the propertys valuation.
Interest net finance costs excluding the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments, amortisation of loan arrangement fees and other non-cash items for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Interest cover the ratio of operating income less overheads to interest for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Investment portfolio income generating assets where the Groups development and asset management activities are substantially complete.
Land bank 100% of the land and property owned and controlled by the Group together with joint ventures and associates including land under option and development agreements.
LIBOR the London interbank offered rate is the interest rate which banks charge when lending to other banks.
Loan-to-value LTV the level of the Groups net borrowings expressed as a percentage of the Groups property portfolio excluding valued assets held under finance leases representing amounts that could be used as security of that debt.
Market value an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation, as determined by the Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Net asset value NAV per share equity attributable to owners of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end excluding shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust.
Net borrowings total borrowings at amortised cost and excluding finance leases and fair value movements on the Groups convertible bonds less cash and cash equivalents.
Net debt total borrowings and finance leases including fair value movements in the Groups convertible bonds less cash and cash equivalents.
Net equivalent yield NEY the weighted average income return after adding notional purchasers costs a property will produce based upon the timing of the income received.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the external valuers assume rent is received annually in arrears.
Net initial yield NIY the yield that would be received by a purchaser, based on the current annualised rental income, net of costs, expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus assumed actual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation is in line with EPRA guidance.
Net rental income the rental income receivable in the period less non-recoverable property costs for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Occupancy rates levels the ERV attributable to vacant units as a proportion of total ERV including the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 164 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Operating costs business running costs administrative expenses plus net finance costs excluding the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments, amortisation of loan arrangement fees and other non-cash items for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Operating income the total of net rental income, other income and property profits for the Group including its share of joint venture and associates.
Other income other rental type income generated from the operating assets of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Persimmon joint venture a series of commercial contracts with Persimmon to develop residential units on agreed sites within St. Modwens land bank.
Pre-sold properties under construction those properties we are constructing that have been specified by and designed for, or adapted by, a specific client under a specific construction contract.
On such projects, profit is recognised using the stage completion method.
Profit before all tax profit before tax stated before the deduction of tax payable by joint ventures and associates.
Project MoDEL Project MoDEL originally saw six former London-based RAF sites freed up for disposal and development as the MoD relocated to an integrated site at RAF Northolt.
VINCI St. Modwen VSM was appointed by the MoD in 2006 to secure planning consent to redevelop the six sites of which VSM disposed of four, retaining RAF Mill Hill and RAF Uxbridge.
The latter was removed from the MoD arrangement and transferred to a separate joint venture with VINCI in 2012.
Property portfolio investment properties and inventories of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates comprising income producing properties together with residential and commercial land, but excluding assets held under finance leases not subject to revaluation and including accrued income relating to lease incentives.
Property profits development profit before the deduction of net realisable value provisions made during the period plus gains on disposals of investments investment properties for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Rent roll the gross rent plus rent reviews that have been agreed as at the reporting date.
Reversionary yield the anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent reaches the ERV.
RICS Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Section 106 agreement planning obligations attached to a development, often improvements to local infrastructure and facilities, to ensure that wherever possible a development makes a positive contribution to the local area and community.
See-through loan-to-value the level of the Groups net borrowings expressed as a percentage of the Groups property portfolio excluding valued assets held under finance leases, calculated on a proportionally consolidated basis including the Groups share of its joint ventures and associates.
See-through loan-to-value excluding residential land the level of the Groups net borrowings expressed as a percentage of the Groups property portfolio excluding assets held under finance leases and residential land, calculated on a proportionally consolidated basis including the Groups share of its joint ventures and associates.
Serviced land value the value of the land held at New Covent Garden Market NCGM assuming that all the necessary pre-development work has been performed and any third party obligations had been settled, such that the site was ready for the scheme to be implemented or to be sold to a third party developer to implement.
SIC Standards and Interpretations Committee.
Total accounting return TAR the increase in EPRA NAV per share for the period, plus dividends paid per share during the period, expressed as a percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the start of the period.
Total shareholder return TSR the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Trading profit operating income less operating costs.
Weighted average term of borrowings each tranche of the Groups borrowings is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group borrowings at the period end.
Weighted average interest rate the Groups annualised loan interest and derivative financial instrument costs at the period end, divided by total Group borrowings at the period end.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 165
