Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information GLOSSARY OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Within the Annual Report and Accounts various alternative performance measures APMs are disclosed.
An APM is a measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows which is not defined by the relevant financial reporting framework, which for the Group is International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
APMs are used to provide greater insight into the performance of the Group and the way it is managed by the Directors.
The table below defines each APM, explains why it is used and, if applicable, where the APM has been reconciled to IFRS: Reconciliation to the APM Definition Why is this measure used?
financial statements Solvency II net assets Based on IFRS Net Assets, but with the Our ability to satisfy our liabilities to clients, Refer to page 39. following adjustments: and consequently our solvency, is central to our business.
By removing the liabilities which are 1.
Reflection of the recognition requirements of fully matched by assets, this presentation allows the Solvency II regulations for assets and the reader to focus on the business operation.
In particular this removes, DAC, It also provides a simpler comparison with other DIR, PVIF, other intangibles and some other wealth management companies.
small items which are treated as inadmissible from a regulatory perspective: and 2.
Adjustment to remove the matching client assets and the liabilities as these do not represent shareholder assets.
No adjustment is made to deferred tax as this is treated as an allowable asset in the Solvency II regulation.
Cash reults, The Cash result is defined as the movement IFRS methodology recognises non-cash items Refer to page 34 and Operating cash result between the opening and closing Solvency II net such as deferred tax and share options.
By also see Note 3 - and Underlying cash assets adjusted for the following items: contrast, dividends can only be paid to Segment Profit.
shareholders from appropriately fungible assets.
The movement in deferred tax is removed to The Board therefore uses the cash results to reflect just the cash realisation from the deferred monitor the level of cash generated by the tax position: business.
The movements in goodwill and other While the Cash result gives an absolute measure intangibles are included: and of the cash generated in the year, the Underlying and Operating cash results are 3.
Other changes in equity, such as dividends particularly useful for monitoring the expected paid in the year and share option costs, are long-term rate of cash emergence, which is excluded.
particularly useful in considering the supportability of dividends and sustainable The Operating cash result reflects the regular dividend growth.
emergence of cash from the business operations.
The Underlying cash results additionally reflects the cash impact of the strategic investments we are making.
Finally, the Cash result reflects all other cash items, including those whose emergence is volatile, varying over time and often influenced by markets, together with the short term costs associated with the back-office infrastructure project.
Neither the cash result nor the underlying cash result should be confused with the IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows which is prepared in accordance with IAS 7.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 199 GLOSSARY OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES continued Reconciliation to the APM Definition Why is this measure used?
financial statements Underlying cash basic These EPS measures are calculated as As Underlying cash is the best reflection of the Not applicable.
and diluted earnings Underlying cash divided by the number of shares cash generated by the business, Underlying cash per share EPS used in the calculation of IFRS basic and EPS measures allow analysis of the shareholder diluted EPS.
cash generated by the business by share.
Total embedded value A discounted cash flow valuation methodology, Life business and wealth management business Not applicable.
assessing the long-term economic value of the differ from most other businesses, in that the business.
expected shareholder income from the sale of a product emerges over a long period in the Our embedded value is determined in line with future.
We therefore complement the IFRS and the EEV principles, originally set out by the cash results by providing additional disclosure Chief Financial Officers CFO Forum in 2004, on an Embedded Value basis, which brings into and amended for subsequent changes to the account the net present value of expected future principles, including those published in April cash flows, as we believe that a measure of total 2016, following the implementation of economic value of the Group is useful to Solvency II.
EEV profit Derived as the movement in the Total EEV Both the IFRS and Cash results reflect only the See Note 3 Segment during the year.
However, our business is Profit.
long-term, and activity in the year can generate business with a long-term value.
We therefore believe it is helpful to understand the full economic impact of activity in the year, which is the aim of the EEV methodology.
EEV operating profit A discounted cash flow valuation methodology, Both the IFRS and cash results reflect only the See Note 3 Segment assessing the long-term economic value of the cash flows in the year.
We therefore Our embedded value is determined in line with believe it is helpful to understand the full the EEV principles, originally set out by the economic impact of activity in the year, which is Chief Financial Officers CFO Forum in 2004, the aim of the EEV methodology.
and amended for subsequent changes to the principles, including those published in April Within the EEV, many of the future cash flows 2016, following the implementation of derive from fund charges, which change with Solvency II.
Since the impact of these changes is typically unrelated to the The EEV operating profit reflects the total EEV performance of the business, we believe that the result with an adjustment to strip out the impact EEV operating profit reflecting the EEV profit, of stock market and other economic effects adjusted to reflect only the expected investment during the year.
performance and no change in economic basis provides the most useful measure of embedded value performance in the year.
EEV operating profit These EPS measures are calculated as EEV As EEV operating profit is the best reflection Not applicable.
basic and diluted operating profit after tax divided by the number of of the EEV generated by the business, EEV earnings per share shares used in the calculation of IFRS basic and operating profit EPS measures allow analysis of EPS diluted EPS.
the long-term value generated by the business by share.
Net asset value per EEV net asset value per share is calculated as the Total embedded value provides a measure Not applicable.
share EEV EEV net assets divided by the year end number of of total economic value of the Group, and ordinary shares.
assessing the NAV per share allows analysis of the overall value of the Group by share.
200 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Reconciliation to the APM Definition Why is this measure used?
financial statements Disclosed as separate Policyholder and Shareholder tax is estimated by making an The UK tax regime facilitates the collection of tax from life insurance policyholders by making line items in the shareholder tax assessment of the effective rate of tax that is an equivalent charge within the corporate tax of statement of applicable to the shareholders on the profits the Company.
The total tax charge for the comprehensive attributable to the shareholders.
This is insurance companies therefore comprises both income on page 127. calculated by applying the appropriate effective this element and an element more closely corporate tax rates to the shareholder profits.
related to normal corporation tax.
In effect the shareholder tax is assessed by Life insurance business impacted by this tax calculating the expected level of tax implied by typically includes policy charges which align the post-tax result, but with explicit adjustment with the tax liability, to mitigate the impact on in the calculation for any significant one-off tax the corporate.
As a result when policyholder adjustments.
tax increases, the charges also increase.
Given these offsetting items can be large, and typically The remainder of the tax charge represents tax dont perform in line with the business, it is on policyholders investment returns.
beneficial to be able to identify the two elements separately.
We therefore refer to that This calculation method is consistent with the part of the overall tax charge, which is deemed legislation relating to the calculation of the tax attributable to policyholders, as policyholder on shareholders profits.
tax, and the rest as shareholder tax.
Profit before A profit measure which reflects the IFRS result The IFRS methodology requires that the tax Disclosed as a separate shareholder tax adjusted for policyholder tax, but before recognised in the financial statements should line item in the deduction of shareholder tax.
Within the include the tax incurred on behalf of statement of consolidated statement of comprehensive income policyholders in our UK life assurance comprehensive the full title of this measure is Profit before tax Company.
Since the policyholder tax charge is income on page 127. attributable to shareholders returns.
unrelated to the performance of the business, we believe it is useful to separately identify the profit before shareholder tax, which reflects the IFRS profit before tax, adjusted for tax paid on behalf of policyholders.
Underlying profit A profit measure which reflects the IFRS result The IFRS methodology promotes recognition of Refer to page 34. adjusted to remove the DAC, DIR and PVIF profits in line with the provision of services and adjustments.
so, for long-term business, some of the initial cash flows are spread over the life of the contract through the use of intangible assets and liabilities known as DAC Deferred Acquisition Costs and DIR Deferred Income.
Due to the retail distribution review RDR regulation change in 2013, there was a step change in the progression of these items in our financial statements, which resulted in significant accounting presentation changes despite the fundamentals of our  business remaining unchanged.
We therefore believe it is useful to consider the IFRS result having removed away the impact of movements in these intangibles as it better reflects the underlying performance of the business.
Net asset value per IFRS net asset value per share is calculated as the Total IFRS net assets provides a measure of Not applicable.
share IFRS IFRS net assets divided by the year end number value of the Group, and assessing the NAV per of ordinary shares.
share allows analysis of the overall value of the Group by share.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 201 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Adviser or Financial Adviser Discretionary Fund Management DFM An individual who is authorised by an appropriate regulatory authority to A generic term for a form of investment management in which buy and provide financial advice.
In the UK our advisers are authorised by sell decisions are made or assisted by a portfolio manager for a clients the FCA.
Within St. Jamess Place, the services provided by Rowan Dartington including investment management, advisory stockbroking Administration Platform, also Bluedoor and wealth planning are collectively referred to as Discretionary Fund A new client-centric administration system, being developed in Management, distinguishing them from the services provided by our conjunction with our third party outsourced administration Partners and from the IMA.
Field Management Team Capita The team of managers within St. Jamess Place with day to day A provider of business process outsourcing and integrated professional responsibility for support and supervision of the Partnership.
support service solutions, which is our third party outsourced provider, responsible for the administration of our Dublin-based life insurance Financial Conduct Authority FCA company, SJPI.
The FCA is a company limited by guarantee and is independent of the Bank of England.
It is responsible for the conduct of business regulation Chief Operating Decision Maker of all firms including those firms subject to prudential regulation by the The Executive Committee of the Board Executive Board which is PRA and the prudential regulation of all firms not regulated by the responsible for allocating resources and assessing the performance of the PRA.
The FCA has three statutory objectives: securing an appropriate operating segments.
degree of protection for consumers, protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial system, and promoting effective Client Advocacy competition in the interests of consumers.
The Company requests feedback from clients each year through a survey distributed with the annual Wealth Account.
Advocacy is measured by Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS the response to the question Would you recommend SJP services to The FSCS is the UKs statutory compensation scheme for customers of others?.
The potential responses distinguish between Yes, and have authorised financial services firms.
This means that the FSCS can pay done so already, Yes, but have yet to do so and No.
compensation if a firm is unable, or is likely to be unable, to pay claims against it.
The FSCS is an independent body, set up under the Financial Client Numbers Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA, and funded by a levy on The number of individuals who have received advice from a authorised financial services firms.
The scheme covers deposits, St. Jamess Place Partner and own a St. Jamess Place wrapper.
insurance policies, insurance brokering, investments, mortgages and mortgage arrangement.
Client Retention Client retention is assessed by calculating the proportion of clients at Funds under Management FUM 1 January in the year who remain as a client throughout the year and are Represents all assets actively managed or administered by or on behalf of still a client on 31 December of the same year.
the Group, including all life insurance and unit trust assets, but not assets managed by third parties where we have only introduced or advised on Company the business.
Assets managed by Rowan Dartington count as funds under The Company refers to St. Jamess Place plc, which is also referred to as management from the date of acquisition.
St. Jamess Place, St. Jamess Place plc and SJP' throughout the Annual Report and Accounts.
Gross Inflows Total new funds under management accepted in the period.
New funds Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC accepted by Rowan Dartington count for Gross Inflows from the date of An intangible asset required to be established through the application of acquisition.
IFRS to our long-term business.
The value of the asset is equal to the amount of all costs which accrue in line with new business volumes.
The Group asset is amortised over the expected lifetime of the business.
The Group refers to the Company together with its subsidiaries as listed in Note 23.
Deferred Income DIR Deferred income which arises from the requirement in IFRS that initial International Financial Data Services IFDS charges on long-term financial instruments should only be recognised A provider of investor and policyholder, administration and technology over the lifetime of the business.
The initial amount of the balance is services.
IFDS is our third party outsourced provider, responsible for the equal to the charge taken.
administration of our UK life insurance company, SJPUK, our unit trust manager, SJPUTG, and our investment administration company, SJPIA.
202 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Rowan Dartington These are accounting regulations designed to ensure comparable A wealth management business providing investment management, preparation and disclosure of statements of financial position, and are the advisory stockbroking and wealth planning services acquired by standards that all publicly listed companies in the European Union are St. Jamess Place during 2016. required to use.
Solvency II Investment Management Approach IMA New insurance regulations designed to harmonise EU insurance The IMA is how St. Jamess Place manages clients investments.
It is regulation which became effective on 1 January 2016.
The key concerns managed by the St. Jamess Place Investment Committee, which in turn of the regulation are to ensure robust risk management in insurance is advised by respected independent investment research consultancies, companies and to use that understanding of risk to help determine the including Stamford Associates, Redington and AON Consulting.
The right amount of capital for European insurance companies to hold to Investment Committee is responsible for identifying fund managers for ensure their ongoing viability in all but the most severe stressed our funds, selecting from fund management firms all around the world.
They are also responsible for monitoring the performance of our fund managers, and, if circumstances should change and it becomes necessary, St. Jamess Place Foundation then they are responsible for changing the fund manager as well.
The independent grant making charity established at the same time as the Company in 1992.
More information about the Foundation can be found Net Inflows on page 61 or on the website www.
Gross inflows less the amount of funds under management withdrawn by clients during the same period.
The net inflows is the growth in funds St. Jamess Place Partner under management not attributable to investment performance.
A member of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
Specifically, the individual or business that is registered as an Appointed Representative of Policyholder and Shareholder tax St. Jamess Place on the FCA website.
St. Jamess Place Partner The UK tax regime facilitates the collection of tax from life insurance businesses vary in size and structure.
Many are sole traders but there are policyholders by making an equivalent charge within the corporate tax of also a growing number of businesses employing many advisers.
This part of the overall tax charge, which is attributable to policyholders, is called policyholder tax.
The rest is shareholder tax.
St. Jamess Place Partnership The collective name for all of our advisers, who are Appointed Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA Representatives of St. Jamess Place.
The PRA is a part of the Bank of England and is responsible for the prudential regulation of deposit taking institutions, insurers and major State Street investment firms.
The PRA has two statutory objectives: to promote the State Street is a global financial services holding company offering safety and soundness of these firms and, specifically for insurers, to custodian services, investment management services, and investment contribute to the securing of an appropriate degree of protection for research and trading services.
State Street is responsible for the custody policyholders.
of the majority of the St. Jamess Place assets, and also provides other investment management services.
Purchased Value of In-force PVIF An intangible asset established on takeover or acquisition, reflecting the present value of the expected emergence of profits from a portfolio of long-term business.
The asset is amortised in line with the emergence of profits.
Registered Individuals RI An individual who is registered by the FCA, particularly an individual who is registered to provide financial advice.
See also Adviser and St. Jamess Place Partner.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC St. Jamess Place House 1 Tetbury Road Cirencester Gloucestershire GL7 1FP T: 0800 01 38 137 www.
