Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy sixth annual general meeting Special business AGM of St. Modwen Properties PLC the Company will be held in the Evolution Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge Share-based incentive plans th Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS on Wednesday, 29 March 16.
To approve the rules of the St. Modwen Properties PLC 2017 2017 at 12.00 noon to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the Performance Share Plan the 2017 PSP, the principal terms of following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 18 inclusive will be proposed which are summarised in Appendix 1 to this notice and the draft as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 19 to 22 will be proposed rules of which are produced to the meeting and signed by the as special resolutions.
Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification, and to authorise the directors to make such modifications to the Ordinary business 2017 PSP as they may consider appropriate to take account of any applicable statutory or regulatory requirements or prevailing Annual Report and financial statements best practice and to adopt the 2017 PSP as so modified and 1.
To receive the Companys Annual Report and financial to do all such other acts and things as they may consider th statements for the financial year ended 30 November 2016. necessary or appropriate to implement the 2017 PSP.
To approve the rules of the St. Modwen Properties PLC 2017 Directors remuneration report and directors Employee Share Option Plan 2017 ESOP, the principal terms remuneration policy of which are summarised in Appendix 2 to this notice and the 2.
To approve the Directors remuneration report excluding draft rules of which are produced to the meeting and signed by the part containing the directors remuneration policy as the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification, set out on pages 74 to 98 of the Annual Report and financial and to authorise the directors to make such modifications to th statements for the financial year ended 30 November 2016. the 2017 ESOP as they may consider appropriate to take account of any applicable statutory or regulatory requirements 3.
To approve the directors remuneration policy as set out on or prevailing best practice and to adopt the 2017 ESOP as pages 76 to 83 of the Annual Report and financial statements so modified and to do all such other acts and things as they th for the financial year ended 30 November 2016, to take effect may consider necessary or appropriate to implement the immediately at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Dividend Authority to allot shares 4.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended 18.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the directors in th 30 November 2016 of 4.06 pence per ordinary share, accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 th payable on 4 April 2017 to those shareholders on the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to: the register of members at the close of business on th 10 March 2017. a allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company Election and re-election of directors up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,395,899: and 5.
To elect Mark Allan as a director.
b allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 6.
To re-elect Ian Bull as a director.
7,395,899 in connection with an offer by way of a rights 7.
To re-elect Steve Burke as a director.
To re-elect Kay Chaldecott as a director.
i ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 9.
To re-elect Simon Clarke as a director.
ii holders of other equity securities, as required by the 10.
To re-elect Rob Hudson as a director.
rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, 11.
To re-elect Lesley James as a director.
as the directors otherwise consider necessary, 12.
To re-elect Richard Mully as a director.
subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors consider necessary or appropriate to deal with 13.
To re-elect Bill Shannon as a director.
treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws Appointment and remuneration of auditor of, any country or territory or any other matter.
To appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor until the Unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, the authorities conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at conferred by this resolution 18 shall apply in substitution for which accounts are laid.
all existing authorities under section 551 of the Act until the 15.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on th of the Companys auditor on behalf of the Board.
which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 28 June 2018, but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the authority expires which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted after the authority expires and the directors may allot shares or grant such rights under such an offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 166 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information b used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if Disapplication of pre-emption rights the authority is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which directors determine to Special resolution be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind 19.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 18, the directors contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice.
the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to Unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, the powers the authority conferred by resolution 18 and or to sell ordinary conferred by this resolution 20 shall apply in substitution for all shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as existing powers under sections 570 and 573 of the Act until the if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: th which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 28 June 2018, but, a any such allotment and or sale in connection with an offer in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter or issue by way of rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue, into agreements before the power expires which would or might open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors, to: require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held as treasury shares to be sold for cash after the power expires i ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may and the directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity be practicable to their existing holdings: and securities held as treasury shares for cash under such an offer ii holders of other equity securities, as required by the or agreement as if the power had not expired.
rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, Purchase of own ordinary shares by the Company subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Special resolution directors consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, 21.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the laws of, any country or territory or any other matter: and Act to make market purchases as defined in section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in its capital Ordinary b any such allotment and or sale, other than pursuant to Shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors paragraph a of this resolution 19, having, in the case of may from time to time determine provided that: ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount or, in the case of other equity securities, giving the right to subscribe a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby or convert into ordinary shares having an aggregate nominal authorised to be purchased is 22,187,698: amount, not exceeding 1,109,384. b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share Unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, the powers is 10 pence exclusive of expenses : conferred by this resolution 19 shall apply in substitution for all c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary existing powers under sections 570 and 573 of the Act until the Share is the highest of in each case exclusive of expenses : conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on th which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 28 June 2018, but, i an amount equal to 105% of the average market in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter value of an Ordinary Share for the five business days into agreements before the power expires which would or might immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held Share is contracted to be purchased: and as treasury shares to be sold for cash after the power expires ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and and the directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity the highest current independent bid for any number of securities held as treasury shares for cash under such an offer Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange: and or agreement as if the power had not expired.
d this authority shall, unless previously renewed, expire at the Special resolution conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date th on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 28 June 20.
That, subject and in addition to the passing of resolution 19, 2018, except in relation to the purchase of any Ordinary the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 Shares the contract for which was concluded before the of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities date of expiry of the authority and which would or might within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act for cash be completed wholly or partly after that date.
pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 18 and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be: a limited to any such allotment and or sale of equity securities having, in the case of ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount or, in the case of other equity securities, giving the right to subscribe or convert into ordinary shares having an aggregate nominal amount, not exceeding 1,109,384: and St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 167 Notice of annual general meeting continued Notice of meetings other than AGMs Explanatory notes to proposed resolutions Special resolution Ordinary resolutions 22.
To authorise the Company to call a general meeting other than For a resolution proposed as an ordinary resolution to be passed, an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice, provided that more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed.
Resolution 1 Annual Report and financial statements Resolution 1 is an ordinary resolution to receive the Annual Report Recommendation th and financial statements for the financial year ended 30 November The Board confirms that, in its opinion, all of the resolutions are in 2016.
Copies will be available at the AGM.
the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in Resolutions 2 and 3 Directors remuneration favour of each of the above resolutions, as they intend to do in Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
remuneration report, other than the part containing the directors remuneration policy.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 this vote is advisory only and the directors entitlement to receive By order of the Board remuneration is not conditional on it.
The resolution and vote provide a means for shareholders to give feedback to the Board on directors remuneration.
Tanya Stote Company Secretary Resolution 3 is an ordinary resolution to approve the directors th 16 February 2017 remuneration policy.
Following a review of the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, a new remuneration policy is being proposed to be applied from the current financial year and is being put to a binding shareholder vote.
The policy, described on pages 76 to 83, has been developed taking into account the principles of St. Modwen Properties PLC the UK Corporate Governance Code and the views of our major Registered number: 349201 shareholders and shareholder advisory groups.
If approved by shareholders, the directors remuneration policy will take effect Registered office: Park Point, 17 High Street, Longbridge, from the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Birmingham B31 2UQ Resolution 4 Declaration of final dividend Resolution 4 is an ordinary resolution by which shareholders are asked to declare a final dividend.
The directors recommend th a final dividend for the financial year ended 30 November 2016 of 4.06 pence per ordinary share.
If approved, this will th be paid on 4 April 2017 to shareholders on the register of th members at the close of business on 10 March 2017.
Resolutions 5 to 13 Election and re-election of directors Resolutions 5 to 13 are ordinary resolutions which deal with the election and re-election of the directors.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association and the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors must retire at each AGM and shall, subject to his or her terms of appointment, be eligible for election or re-election.
st Following his appointment to the Board on 1 November 2016, Mark Allan will retire and offer himself for election: all other directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of all directors are set out on pages 54 and 55.
The performance of and contribution made by individual directors has been reviewed by the Chairman during the course of the year and the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of each director continues to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles, and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
The Board therefore recommends the reappointment of all directors standing for re-election.
Further supporting information regarding the non-executive directors can be found opposite.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 168 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Ian Bull resolution 6 Richard Mully resolution 12 Ian was appointed to the Board in September 2014 and is Richard was appointed to the Board in September 2013 and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is currently Chief Financial became Senior Independent Director in December 2013.
He is Officer of Parkdean Resorts UK Ltd. His career in finance spans currently a non-executive director of Aberdeen Asset Management over 25 years, including board level finance roles at Ladbrokes plc plc and Great Portland Estates plc, and Vice Chairman of Alstria and Greene King plc.
Ian brings to the Board a wealth of corporate Office REIT-AG.
and financial knowledge, together with a sound understanding of Richard brings to the Board broad financial knowledge and accounting and regulatory matters.
experience gained over a long career in investment banking, During the past year, Ian led the Audit Committee through the fund management, capital markets and real estate private equity selection process for the Companys external auditor and was a investing.
He has been an active Senior Independent Director, member of the interview panel for the tender of the internal auditor acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and meeting with appointment.
As Committee Chair he also ensured that the Audit the non-executive directors without the Chairman being present.
Committee considered a number of significant matters in relation to financial reporting, including the valuation of the Groups Bill Shannon resolution 13 property portfolio.
Bill was appointed to the Board in November 2010 and became non-executive Chairman in March 2011.
He chairs the Nomination Kay Chaldecott resolution 8 Committee and is currently Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Kay was appointed to the Board in October 2012.
She is currently Director of LSL Property Services plc and a non-executive director a non-executive director of NewRiver REIT plc.
Her executive career of Johnson Service Group plc.
in property spans over 25 years with Capital Shopping Centres Bill has proven ability in leading large public and private companies Group plc now Intu Properties plc where she also served as a as Chairman and has significant management and board level main board director.
experience across retail, leisure, financial services and property With her extensive knowledge of the retail property sector, including sectors.
He continues to oversee succession planning for Board the retail development process, retail mix and leasing and shopping appointments, heading the recruitment for the role of Chief centre operations, Kay makes a meaningful contribution to discussions Executive and guiding the induction programme for Mark Allan.
and brings effective challenge at Board and Committee meetings.
Bill also supported the remuneration policy review to ensure that the views of major shareholders were communicated to and Simon Clarke resolution 9 understood by the Board.
Simon was appointed to the Board in October 2004 following Resolutions 14 and 15 Auditor appointment and the death of his father, Sir Stanley Clarke, the founder and remuneration former Chairman of St. Modwen.
He is currently Chairman of Dunstall Holdings Ltd, Trustee of Racing Welfare and As detailed in the Audit Committee report on page 69 a competitive Chairman of Racing Homes.
tender process for the Companys external audit was undertaken during the year, resulting in a recommendation by the Audit Whilst not considered to be independent for the purposes of the UK Committee to the Board to appoint KPMG LLP.
Resolution 14 Corporate Governance Code, as the longest serving director Simon is an ordinary resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys brings continuity and extensive knowledge of the business to the auditor with effect from the conclusion of the AGM and resolution Board as well as strong commercial and management experience.
15, also an ordinary resolution, authorises the Audit Committee to determine the auditors remuneration on behalf of the Board.
Lesley James, CBE resolution 11 Lesley was appointed to the Board in October 2009 and is Resolution 16 Approval of the St. Modwen Properties Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She has considerable PLC 2017 Performance Share Plan board experience across public, private, voluntary and education The Companys existing long-term incentive arrangement for sectors and, as HR Director at Tesco plc for 14 years, has extensive its executive directors is the St. Modwen Properties PLC 2007 knowledge of executive remuneration.
Performance Share Plan the 2007 Plan.
Since its approval by During the past year, Lesley led the Remuneration Committees shareholders, the 2007 Plan has provided for annual share-based discussions in respect of the remuneration arrangements for Mark awards ordinarily vesting three years from grant, subject to the st Allan, who was appointed Chief Executive on 1 December 2016. participants continued service and to the extent to which objective She also guided the Remuneration Committees strategic review performance criteria are met over a three-year measurement period.
th of the Companys remuneration policy, engaging with the Groups The 2007 Plan reaches the end of its 10 year life on 26 April 2017. major investors and shareholder advisory bodies.
A revised The Remuneration Committee has undertaken a review of remuneration policy will be presented to shareholders for the 2007 Plan and concluded that, through resolution 16, approval at the 2017 AGM resolution3.
shareholder authority be sought for a replacement arrangement, the St. Modwen Properties PLC 2017 Performance Share Plan the 2017 Plan.
The terms of the 2017 Plan have been designed to materially continue with the main features of the 2007 Plan, but with appropriate changes to take account of prevailing best practice expectations and the new directors remuneration policy proposed for approval under resolution 3.
One such update in line with best practice is the inclusion of a two-year post-vesting holding period for the Companys executive directors and other participants at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 169 Notice of annual general meeting continued Resolution 16 seeks the approval of shareholders to the 2017 Plan Paragraph a of resolution 18 will, if resolution 18 is passed, and authorises the Board to do all such acts and things necessary authorise the directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate to give effect to the amendments.
nominal amount of 7,395,899, which represents one-third of the th Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 8 February 2017 A summary of the principal terms of the 2017 Plan is set out in being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Appendix 1 to this notice.
A copy of the draft rules of the 2017 notice of AGM.
Paragraph b of resolution 18 proposes that, in Plan will be available for inspection at the registered office of the accordance with IA guidance, an additional authority be conferred Company, and at the offices of New Bridge Street an Aon Hewitt on the directors to allot shares in connection with a rights issue up Ltd company at 10 Devonshire Square, London EC2M 4YP, during to a further maximum aggregate nominal amount of 7,395,899. normal business hours from the date of this notice of AGM until the close of the AGM, and at the place of the AGM for at least The authorities sought in paragraphs a and b of resolution 18 are 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys articles of association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to The 2017 Plan is proposed to be adopted as an employees previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under share scheme within the meaning of section 1166 of the such existing authorities.
The authorities will each expire at the Companies Act 2006. earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or th 28 June 2018.
Resolution 17 Approval of the St. Modwen Properties PLC 2017 Employee Share Option Plan The directors have no present intention of exercising these authorities other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under The Companys existing long-term incentive arrangement for its share incentive plans approved previously by shareholders, employees below Board level is the St. Modwen Properties PLC but believe that it is in the best interests of the Company to have 2007 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2007 ESOS.
The the authorities available to respond to market developments and th 2007 ESOS reaches the end of its 10 year life on 26 April 2017. to enable allotments to take place without the need for a general The Remuneration Committee has undertaken a review of meeting should they determine that it is appropriate to do so.
the 2007 ESOS and concluded that, through resolution 17, shareholder authority be sought for a replacement arrangement, Special resolutions the St. Modwen Properties PLC 2017 Employee Share Option For a resolution proposed as a special resolution to be passed, Plan the 2017 ESOP.
at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of The terms of the 2017 ESOP have been designed to materially the resolution.
continue with the main features of the 2007 ESOS but with appropriate changes to take account of prevailing best practice Resolutions 19 and 20 Authority to disapply expectations and changes in relevant legislation governing HMRC pre-emption rights tax advantaged share options.
If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, Resolution 17 seeks the approval of shareholders to the 2017 company law requires that these shares are offered first to ESOP and authorises the Board to do all such acts and things shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
At last years necessary to give effect to the amendments.
AGM a special resolution was passed, under section 570 of the Companies Act 2006, empowering the directors to allot equity A summary of the principal terms of the 2017 ESOP is set out securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares in Appendix 2 to this notice.
A copy of the draft rules of the 2017 to existing shareholders.
It is proposed that this authority be ESOP will be available for inspection at the registered office of the renewed in line with institutional shareholder guidelines.
Company, and at the offices of New Bridge Street an Aon Hewitt Ltd company at 10 Devonshire Square, London EC2M 4YP, during Under resolution 19, it is proposed that the directors be authorised normal business hours from the date of this notice of AGM until to issue shares for cash and or sell shares from treasury if any are the close of the AGM, and at the place of the AGM for at least so held without offering them first to existing shareholders in 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
proportion to their current holdings: The 2017 ESOP is proposed to be adopted as an employees a in respect of a rights issue, open offer or other offer that share scheme within the meaning of section 1166 of the generally provides existing shareholders with the opportunity Companies Act 2006. to subscribe for new shares pro rata to their existing holdings.
This part of the authority is designed to give the directors Resolution 18 Authority to allot shares flexibility to exclude certain shareholders from such an offer where the directors consider it necessary or desirable to do The authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM to allot so in order to avoid legal, regulatory or practical problems that shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
would otherwise arise: or Resolution 18 is an ordinary resolution to renew this authority.
b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,109,384 up to The Investment Association IA guidelines on directors authority to 11,093,840 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
This allot shares state that IA members will permit, and treat as routine, amount represents approximately 5% of the Companys issued resolutions seeking authority to allot new shares representing th ordinary share capital as at 8 February 2017 being the latest up to one-third of a companys issued share capital.
In addition, practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
they will treat as routine a request for authority to allot shares This part of the authority is designed to provide the Board with representing an additional one-third of a companys issued share flexibility to raise further equity funding and to pursue acquisition capital provided that it is only used to allot shares pursuant to a opportunities as and when they may arise.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 170 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The authority proposed under resolution 20 is in addition to Resolution 22 Notice period of general meetings the authority granted by resolution 19.
Under resolution 20, it is The Company must give at least 21 clear days notice of any proposed that the directors be authorised to disapply statutory general meeting, but is permitted to call meetings other than pre-emption rights in respect of an additional 5% of the Companys the AGM on at least 14 clear days notice if annual shareholder th issued ordinary share capital as at 8 February 2017 being the approval is obtained beforehand.
The Company must also offer, latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
for any meeting held on less than 21 clear days notice, a facility This further authority may only be used in connection with an to vote by electronic means that is accessible to all shareholders.
acquisition or specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with the issue, or that has taken place in the Resolution 22 is a special resolution to renew the authority granted preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement at last years AGM to allow the Company to hold general meetings of the issue as contemplated by the Pre-Emption Groups March other than AGMs on not less than 14 clear days notice.
authority will be effective until the Companys next AGM.
Excluding any shares issued in connection with an acquisition The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine or specified capital investment as described above, the directors for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the Companys issued business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of ordinary share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis in any rolling shareholders as a whole.
three-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
Shareholder notes The authorities sought in resolutions 19 and 20 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys articles of 1.
Entitlement to attend and vote association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under such existing To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose authorities.
The authorities will each expire at the earlier of the of determining the number of votes they may cast, shareholders th conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or 28 June 2018. must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6.30pm th on Monday, 27 March 2017 or, in the event of any adjournment, The directors have no present intention of exercising these at 6.30pm on the date which is two days before the date of the authorities other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the its share incentive plans approved previously by shareholders, relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of but consider it prudent to obtain the flexibility that these any person to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the authorities provide.
number of shares registered in their name at that time.
It is proposed that all votes on the resolutions at the AGM will be Resolution 21 Authority to purchase shares taken by way of a poll.
Resolution 21 is a special resolution to renew the authority granted to the directors at last years AGM to make purchases of its own 2.
Appointment of proxies general ordinary shares through the market as permitted by the Companies A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened Act 2006 and in line with institutional shareholder guidelines.
No by the notice of AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all shares were purchased during the year and the Company does or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his not hold any shares in treasury.
or her behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than If passed, the resolution gives authority for the Company to purchase one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is up to 22,187,698 of its ordinary shares, which represents 10% appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or th of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 8 February shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Company but must attend the meeting in person.
The resolution specifies the minimum For the appointment to be effective, a proxy form or electronic and maximum prices which may be paid for any ordinary shares appointment of proxy, see note 4 below must be received purchased under this authority.
The authority will expire at the by the Companys registrar not less than 48 hours before the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and th time of the meeting, i. e. not later than 12.00 noon on Monday, 28 June 2018. th 27 March 2017.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a The directors have no present intention for the Company to exercise shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting the authority granted by this resolution to purchase its own shares.
in person if he or she is entitled to do so and so wishes.
They would do so only after taking account of the overall financial position of the Company and in circumstances where to do so would be regarded by the Board as being in the best interests of shareholders generally and result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share.
The Company may either cancel any shares it purchases under this authority or transfer them into treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury or cancel them.
th As at 8 February 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM, the Company had options outstanding over 6,960,649 ordinary shares, representing 3.14% of the issued share capital on that date.
If the Company was to purchase the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to th this resolution, the options outstanding at 8 February 2017 would represent 3.92% of the issued share capital.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 171 Notice of annual general meeting continued 3.
Appointment of proxies proxy form 5.
Appointment of proxies through CREST A form which may be used to appoint a proxy and give proxy CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for instructions has been sent to shareholders.
If you do not have a the AGM, and any adjournment s thereof, through the CREST proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the additional forms to appoint more than one proxy, please contact procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal the Companys registrars, Equiniti, on 0371 384 2198 overseas Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST callers should dial 44 0 121 415 7047.
Lines are open from members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding public refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will holidays in England and Wales.
Alternatively, photocopy the proxy be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
form which has been sent to you.
All forms must be signed and In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the should be returned together in the same envelope.
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy to CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
Please note that the accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Ltds EUI specifications vote withheld option on the proxy form is provided to enable you and must contain the information required for such instructions, as to abstain on any particular resolution: it is not a vote in law and described in the CREST Manual available at www.
will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment resolution.
If you sign the proxy form and return it without any of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously specific directions your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as his or her discretion.
If you wish to appoint a proxy other than the to be received by Equiniti ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt Chairman of the meeting, please insert the name of your chosen of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time proxy holder in the space provided on the proxy form.
If the proxy of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number from which Equiniti is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST respect of your full voting entitlement or if the proxy form has been should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors voting entitlement for that designated account.
or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior joint holder who available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, in respect of the Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation holding will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of joint holders.
For this purpose seniority is determined by the order the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member in which the names appear in the Companys register of members is a CREST Personal Member or sponsored member or has in respect of the joint holding.
In the case of a corporate shareholder, appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or signed sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be on its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney.
In the case of an necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the individual, the proxy form must be signed by the appointing shareholder.
CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST Any alterations made to the proxy form should be initialled.
members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the 4.
Appointment of proxies electronically CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Equinitis The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the website at www.
co. uk using their personal Voting ID, circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number which are printed Securities Regulations 2001. on the proxy form.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can 6.
Changing and revoking proxy instructions appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio To change your proxy instruction simply submit a new proxy at www.
Full details and instructions on these appointment using the methods set out above.
Where two or electronic proxy facilities are given on the respective websites.
more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent of the same share and for the same meeting, those received last to any address other than those provided or if received after by Equiniti will take precedence.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 172 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information In order to revoke a proxy instruction, a shareholder will need to 11.
Website publication of audit concerns inform the Company by sending a signed hard copy notice clearly Shareholders satisfying the threshold requirements in section 527 stating his her intention to revoke a proxy appointment to Equiniti of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish Ltd, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6DA.
In the case a statement on its website setting out any matter that such of a corporate shareholder, the revocation notice must be executed shareholder proposes to raise at the meeting relating to a the audit under its common seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the officer or attorney.
Any power of attorney or any other authority conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or b any under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified copy circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing of such power of attorney must be included with the revocation to hold office since the last AGM.
The Company cannot require the notice.
Termination of proxy appointments made through CREST shareholders requesting the publication to pay its expenses in must be made in accordance with the procedures described in complying with the request.
Any statement placed on the website the CREST Manual.
must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later than the time the statement is made available on the website.
Corporate representatives may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the A corporate shareholder can appoint one or more corporate Company has been required to publish on its website under section representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers 527 of the Companies Act 2006. as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations 12.
Total voting rights will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when th As at 8 February 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to attending the AGM.
Please contact Equiniti for further guidance.
the publication of the notice of AGM, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 221,876,988 shares carrying one vote each.
Nominated persons th Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 8 February Any person to whom this notice is sent who is not a shareholder 2017 was 221,876,988. but is a person nominated by a shareholder under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated 13.
Documents available for inspection Person may, under an agreement with the shareholder who The following documents are available for inspection at the nominated him her, have a right to be appointed, or have someone registered office of the Company during normal business hours else appointed, as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has and will be at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior no such right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any to and during the AGM: such agreement, have a right to give voting instructions to the shareholder.
a copies of the directors service agreements with the Company: The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the b copies of the non-executive directors letters of appointment: appointment of proxies set out in notes 2 to 7 above does not c a copy of the Companys articles of association: apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
If you are d a copy of the Companys indemnity for directors: a Nominated Person it is important to remember that your main e a copy of the draft rules of the 2017 Performance Share Plan: contact in terms of your investment remains the registered and shareholder or the custodian or broker who administers the investment on your behalf.
f a copy of the draft rules of the 2017 Employee Share Option Plan.
Communication with the Company Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting and the Company has an You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice obligation to answer such questions unless i to do so would of AGM or any related documents including the proxy form to interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the communicate with the Company for any purposes other than disclosure of confidential information, ii the answer has already those expressly stated.
been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Availability of information on a website A copy of this notice of AGM, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the Companys website at www.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 173 Notice of annual general meeting Appendix 1 Summary of the principal terms of the St. Modwen Properties The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying PLC 2017 Performance Share Plan thePlan to any outstanding award following grant if an event or set of circumstances occurs which causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to do so.
In the case of any awards Operation held by the Companys executive directors, the Committee must The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee will be satisfied that the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and supervise the operation of the Plan.
not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event or set of circumstances in question.
Eligibility Vesting of awards Any employee including an executive director of the Company or its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the Plan at the Awards granted to executive directors shall normally vest on discretion of the Committee.
It is currently anticipated that the third anniversary of grant or, if later, when the Committee participation in the Plan will be limited to the Companys determines the extent to which the performance conditions have executive directors and selected senior management.
Awards granted to executive directors will have a normal vesting period of not less than three years.
The Committee Grant of awards may specify different vesting or performance periods on or prior to the grant of awards to participants who are not executive directors.
The Committee may grant awards to acquire ordinary shares in the Company Shares within six weeks following the Companys Where awards are granted in the form of options, once vested, announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may such options will then be exercisable up until the tenth anniversary also grant awards within six weeks of shareholder approval of the of grant or such shorter period specified by the Committee at the Plan or at any other time when the Committee considers there are time of grant unless they lapse earlier.
Shorter exercise periods sufficiently exceptional circumstances which justify the granting shall apply in the case of good leavers and or vesting of awards of awards.
in connection with corporate events.
The Committee may grant awards as conditional share awards, Holding period nil or nominal cost options or forfeitable shares.
The Committee may also grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value to The terms of the Plan require that executive director participants share-based awards, and satisfy share-based awards in cash, and such others, if any, as the Committee requires will ordinarily although it does not currently intend to do so.
be required to retain any vested Shares on an after-tax basis acquired under the Plan or, where relevant, the full number of the An award may not be granted more than 10 years after shareholder vested Shares whilst held under an unexercised but vested option approval of the Plan.
until at least the second anniversary of the vesting of the relevant No payment is required for the grant of an award.
Such holding period will continue post cessation of transferable, except on death.
employment unless the Committee determines otherwise.
It is proposed that the first awards under the Plan would be made Exceptionally, the Committee may, in its discretion, allow such within six weeks following shareholder approval of the Plan or as participants to sell, transfer, assign or dispose of some or all of soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.
these Shares before the end of the holding period, subject to such additional terms and conditions that the Committee may specify.
Participation in the Plan by the Companys executive directors will be limited to participation consistent with the relevant approved remuneration policy which initially would be that for which approval Dividend equivalents is sought pursuant to resolution 3.
The Committee may decide that participants will receive a payment in cash and or Shares of an amount equivalent to the dividends Individual limit that would have been payable on an awards vested Shares between the date of grant and the vesting of an award or if later, An employee may not receive awards in any financial year over or and only whilst an option remains unexercised in respect of vested in relation to Shares which have a market value in excess of 150% Shares, the expiry of any holding period.
This amount may assume of their annual base salary in that financial year, save in exceptional the reinvestment of dividends and shall be paid at the same time as circumstances in which case this limit increases to 200% of their the delivery of the related vested Shares or cash payment as relevant.
Market value for the purposes of the above limits shall be based on the market value of Shares on the dealing day immediately preceding the grant of an award or by reference Leaving employment to a short averaging period.
As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment or be a director within the Companys group.
Performance conditions However, if a participant ceases to be an employee or a director because of death, injury or disability or in other circumstances at The extent of vesting of awards granted to the Companys the discretion of the Committee, then their award will normally vest executive directors will be subject to the achievement of on the date when it would have vested if they had not ceased such performance conditions set by the Committee when awards employment or office.
Performance conditions may also be set for other participants in the Plan, as determined by the Committee.
Details of the performance conditions applied to executive directors awards will normally be set out in the respective Directors remuneration report for the year in which the award is granted and will be in line with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 174 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The extent to which an award will vest in these situations will depend Overall Plan limits upon two factors: i the extent to which the performance conditions The Plan may operate over new issue Shares, treasury Shares or if any have been satisfied: and ii pro rating of the award to reflect Shares purchased in the market.
In any 10 calendar year period, the proportion of the original vesting period which has elapsed at the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: the time of cessation, although the Committee can decide not to pro rate an award or pro rate to a lesser extent if it regards it as a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company appropriate to do so in the particular circumstances and where it under the Plan and any other employee share plan adopted is permitted by the Companys approved remuneration policy.
by the Company: and Alternatively, if a participant ceases to be an employee or a director b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in the Companys group for one of the good leaver reasons under the Plan and any other discretionary share plan specified above including in the case of a discretionary good leaver adopted by the Company.
the Committee can decide that their award will vest when they Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for the purposes leave, subject to: i the performance conditions if any measured at of these limits unless institutional investor guidelines provide that that time: and ii pro rating by reference to the time of cessation as they need not count.
described above including, as above, discretion retained for the Committee in respect of pro ration.
Recovery clawback and withholding malus The Committee may make good leaver status contingent on the satisfaction of such ordinarily, post-cessation of service terms as The Committee may apply the Plans recovery and withholding the Committee considers appropriate and in such circumstances provisions if, not later than four years following the vesting of an shall retain discretion to revoke good leaver status to such extent award, it is discovered that there has been any of the following: it considers appropriate upon the discovery of a breach of the a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or relevant terms.
performance: an error of calculation including on account of inaccurate or misleading information : serious misconduct by the relevant participant: or in other exceptional circumstances Corporate events for example, failure of adequate risk control.
In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company not The recovery and withholding may be satisfied by way of a being an internal corporate reorganisation all awards will vest early reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award or subject to: i the extent that the performance conditions if any future share awards and or a requirement to make a cash payment.
have, in the opinion of the Committee, been satisfied at that time: and ii the pro rating of the awards to reflect the reduced period of The discovery period may be extended by the Committee for time between their grant and vesting, although the Committee can an additional period of up to two years in the event of ongoing decide not to pro rate an award or pro rate to a lesser extent if it investigation as at the expiry of the normal four year discovery period.
regards it as appropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, awards will be Alterations to the Plan replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding The Committee may, at any time, amend the Plan in any respect, company unless the Committee decides that awards should vest provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any on the basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of If a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits which, in the opinion of the Committee, would affect the market on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury Shares, the basis price of Shares to a material extent, then the Committee may for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the decide that awards will vest on such basis as it decides.
Shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of such awards.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders Participants rights will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in Awards settled in Shares will not confer any shareholder rights legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control until the awards have vested or the options have been exercised or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the as relevant and the participants have received their Shares.
Rights attaching to Shares Shareholder approval will also not be required for any amendments to any performance condition applying to an award under the Plan Any Shares allotted when an award vests or is exercised will to the extent that it is amended in accordance with the constraints rank equally with Shares then in issue except for rights arising relating to adjusting performance conditions described above.
by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of the Shares, the Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of Shares subject to an award and or the exercise price payable if any.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 175 Notice of annual general meeting Appendix 2 Summary of the principal terms of the St. Modwen Properties Option price PLC 2017 Employee Share Option Plan the Plan The price per Share payable upon exercise of an option will not be less than: Operation a the middle market price of a Share on the London Stock The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee will Exchange on the dealing day immediately before the date supervise the operation of the Plan.
of grant or by reference to a short averaging period not exceeding five days looking back from the date of grant : and Eligibility b if the option relates only to new issue Shares, the nominal value Any employee excluding an executive director of the Company of a Share.
or its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Committee.
It is currently anticipated that Performance conditions participation in the Plan will be limited to those employees who do not participate in the 2017 Performance Share Plan.
The Committee may, at the time of grant of options, impose a performance condition on the exercise of options.
Grant of options The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to any outstanding options following grant if an event or set of The Committee may grant options to acquire ordinary shares in circumstances occurs which causes the Committee to consider the Company Shares within six weeks following the Companys that it would be appropriate to do so, provided the Committee is announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may satisfied that the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not also grant options within six weeks of shareholder approval of materially less challenging than the original conditions would have the Plan or at any other time when the Committee considers there been but for the event or set of circumstances in question.
are sufficiently exceptional circumstances which justify the granting of options.
Exercise of options An option may not be granted more than 10 years after shareholder approval of the Plan.
Options will normally become capable of exercise three years after grant to the extent that any performance condition has been No payment is required for the grant of an option.
Options are not satisfied and provided the participant remains employed in the transferable, except on death.
Unexercised options will lapse on the day It is proposed that the first options under the Plan would be made in before the tenth anniversary of the date of grant or after such line with the Companys normal grant cycle following the publication shorter period as determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
of the half-year results in July 2017.
The Committee may specify different normal vesting periods on The Plan has two parts.
Part A provides for the grant of HMRC tax or prior to the grant of options under Part B of the Plan.
advantaged options, and Part B provides for the grant of non-tax Shares will be allotted or transferred to participants within 30 days advantaged options.
Save for minor differences to take account of exercise.
The Committee can decide to satisfy options which are of relevant tax legislation governing HMRC tax advantaged options, not tax advantaged by the payment of a cash amount or Shares the terms of such parts are materially identical.
Part B will also allow equal in value to the gain made on the exercise of the option.
the Committee to grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, Leaving employment although it does not currently intend to do so.
As a general rule, an option will lapse upon a participant ceasing Individual limit to hold employment within the Companys group.
However, if a participant ceases to be an employee because of injury, disability, An employee may not receive options in any financial year over or retirement, redundancy, their employing company or the business in relation to Shares which have a market value in excess of 150% for which they work being sold out of the Companys group or in of their annual base salary in that financial year, save in exceptional other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, their option circumstances in which case this limit increases to 300% of their will usually vest on the normal vesting date, unless the Committee annual base salary.
Market value for the purposes of the above decides otherwise.
Options will be exercisable for a period of limits shall be based on the market value of Shares on the dealing 12 months from the date of vesting.
day immediately preceding the grant of an option or by reference to a short averaging period.
The extent to which an option will vest in these situations will depend upon two factors: i the extent to which the performance The individual limit on tax advantaged options available under Part A conditions if any have been satisfied: and ii pro rating of the option of the Plan is a maximum holding of no more than 30,000 worth of to reflect the proportion of the original vesting period which has such options at any one time by reference to grant value, or such other elapsed at the time of cessation, although the Committee can limit that may apply from to time under the relevant tax legislation.
decide not to pro rate an option or to pro rate to a lesser extent if it regards it as appropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Alternatively, if a participant ceases to be an employee in the Companys group for one of the good leaver reasons specified above including in the case of a discretionary good leaver, the Committee can decide that their option will vest when they leave, subject to: i the performance conditions if any measured at that time: and ii pro rating to the time of cessation as described above including, as above, discretion retained for the Committee in respect of pro ration.
Options will then be exercisable for a period of six months from the date of vesting, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 176 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information In the case of death, any unvested options will vest immediately, Recovery clawback and withholding malus subject to any performance conditions and time pro rating as The Committee may apply the Plans recovery and withholding above.
Options will be exercisable for a period of 12 months from provisions if, not later than four years following the vesting of an the date of death.
option, it is discovered that there has been any of the following: For options granted under Part B of the Plan, the Committee may a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or make good leaver status contingent on the satisfaction of such performance: an error of calculation including on account of ordinarily, post-cessation of service terms as the Committee inaccurate or misleading information : serious misconduct by considers appropriate and in such circumstances shall retain the relevant participant: or in other exceptional circumstances discretion to revoke good leaver status to such extent it considers for example, failure of adequate risk control.
appropriate upon the discovery of a breach of the relevant terms.
The recovery and withholding may be satisfied by way of a reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award Corporate events option or future share awards options and or a requirement to In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company not make a cash payment.
being an internal corporate reorganisation all options will become The discovery period may be extended by the Committee for exercisable early for a limited time subject to: i the extent that an additional period of up to two years in the event of ongoing the performance conditions if any have, in the opinion of the investigation as at the expiry of the normal four year discovery period.
Committee, been satisfied at that time: and ii the pro rating of options to reflect the reduced period of time between their grant Alterations to the Plan and vesting, although the Committee can decide not to pro rate an option or pro rate to a lesser extent if it regards it as appropriate The Committee may, at any time, amend the Plan in any respect, to do so in the particular circumstances.
provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, options will be the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits replaced by equivalent new options over shares in a new holding on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury Shares, the basis company unless the Committee decides that options should vest for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the on the basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
If a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will which, in the opinion of the Committee, would affect the market not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the price of Shares to a material extent, then the Committee may administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation decide that options will vest on such basis as it decides.
or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Rights attaching to Shares Companys group.
Any Shares allotted when an option is exercised will rank equally Shareholder approval will also not be required for any amendments with Shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to any performance condition applying to an option under the Plan to a record date prior to their allotment.
to the extent that it is amended in accordance with the constraints relating to adjusting performance conditions described above.
Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of the Shares, the Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of Shares under option and or the price payable on the exercise of an option.
Overall Plan limits The Plan may operate over new issue Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
In any 10 calendar year period, the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the Plan and any other employee share plan adopted by the Company: and b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the Plan and any other discretionary share plan adopted by the Company.
Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for the purposes of these limits unless institutional investor guidelines provide that they need not count.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 177
