Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Statement of Directors Responsibilities STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the of Directors section of the Annual Report confirm that, to the best of Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in their knowledge: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the the Group: Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial the Parent Company financial statements, which have been prepared Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Practice give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom position and profit of the Parent Company: and Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are performance of the business and the position of the Company and satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and Group and the Parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are uncertainties that it faces.
required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By order of the Board make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable Elizabeth Kelly UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material Company Secretary departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent 27 February 2017 Company financial statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
118 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
