132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies These consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the European Union IAS Regulation, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by i the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and ii financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the presentation currency of the Group, and the functional currency of the Company and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
New accounting standards adopted during the year The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 May 2015: Amendments to IAS 19, defined benefit plans, employee contributions IFRIC 21, Levies None of these have materially impacted the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial years beginning on or after the dates disclosed below and therefore after the date of these financial statements: International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective for annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 9 Financial instruments: Hedge accounting 1 January 2018 Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or Postponed indefinitely joint venture Amendments to IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the consolidation exception 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017 Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations 1 January 2016 IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts 1 January 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Bearer Plants 1 January 2016 Amendment to IAS 27 Equity method in separate financial statements 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of cash flows: disclosure initiative 1 January 2017 Not yet adopted for use in the European Union.
With the exception of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, the Directors have reviewed the requirements of the new standards and interpretations listed above and they are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
The impact of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 is being assessed.
The Directors expect the application of IFRS 16 to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
In particular, the accounting for the Groups substantial rolling stock operating lease commitments will be affected by the application of the new standard.
IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and, instead, introduces a single lessee accounting model.
Applying that model, a lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value: and depreciation of lease assets separately from interest.
On adopting IFRS 16, the Group expects to recognise substantial new assets and new liabilities in respect of those leases currently classified as operating leases.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 71 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 15:58 Page 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Comparatives Where appropriate, comparative figures for the previous year have been adjusted to conform to changes in presentation.
These changes have no impact on the consolidated income statement or on consolidated net assets.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures made up to 30 April in each year.
The consolidated income statement includes the results of businesses purchased from the effective date of acquisition and excludes the results of disposed operations and businesses sold from the effective date of disposal.
Non-controlling interests represents the portion of earnings and equity attributable to third party shareholders of a subsidiary of the Group.
Subsidiaries and joint ventures i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity where the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Where a business is acquired, the purchase method also known as the acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of the subsidiaries and other businesses.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recorded as goodwill.
Costs attributable to the acquisition are expensed to the consolidated income statement.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
ii Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control with other investors.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint venture which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
The Groups reported interest in joint ventures includes goodwill on acquisition.
The Group applies its own accounting policies and estimates when accounting for its share of joint ventures making appropriate adjustments where necessary, having due regard to all relevant factors.
Presentation of income statement and exceptional items Where applicable, income statement information has been presented in a columnar format, which separately highlights intangible asset expenses and exceptional items.
This is intended to enable users of the financial statements to determine more readily the impact of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items on the results of the Group.
Exceptional items are defined in note 35.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the European Union requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the period.
Although these estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates and assumptions used.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement of tax assets and liabilities, the measurement of contract provisions, the measurement of retirement benefit amounts, the measurement and impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets, the measurement of insurance provisions and the measurement of receivables and payables in relation to rail contracts.
The measurement of tax assets and liabilities requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax consequence of certain items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
The measurement of contract provisions requires estimates of future cash flows relating to the relevant contracts and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The measurement of retirement benefit amounts requires the estimation of life expectancies, future changes in salaries, inflation and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines whether goodwill arising on business combinations is impaired on an annual basis and this requires the estimation of value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The estimation of receivables and payables in relation to rail contracts requires an estimate of the likely outcomes based on interpreting the applicable contracts.
Those accounting policies that the Directors believe require the greatest exercise of judgement are described in section 1.6.
12 of this Annual Report, which forms part of these financial statements.
Revenue Revenue represents gross revenue earned from public transport services and excludes payments received on account.
Amounts receivable from government bodies for tendered services and concessionary fare schemes are included as part of revenue as these represent payments for services provided.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and VAT.
Revenues incidental to the Groups principal activity including advertising income and maintenance income are reported as miscellaneous revenue.
Rail revenue includes amounts attributable to the train operating companies, based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry in respect of passenger receipts.
Franchise agreement receipts or payments from or to the UKs Department for Transport are treated as operating costs or other operating income.
page 72 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 73 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Revenue continued Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
Cash received for the sale of season tickets and travelcards is deferred within liabilities and recognised in the income statement over the period covered by the relevant ticket.
Income from advertising and other activities is recognised as the income is earned.
Finance income is recognised using the effective interest method as interest accrues.
Under the contractual terms of its franchise agreements to operate rail services, the Group has revenue sharing arrangements with the Department for Transport.
As a result of these arrangements, the Group may be liable to make payments to the Department for Transport or receive amounts from the Department for Transport.
The arrangements vary by franchise.
The amounts at South West Trains are based on calculations that involve comparison of actual revenue with the target revenue specified in the relevant franchise agreement.
The amounts at West Coast Trains operated by the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture, Virgin Trains East Coast and from October 2015, East Midlands Trains, are based on calculations that involve comparing published UKnational Gross Domestic Product GDP with the GDPcomparator specified in the relevant franchise agreement.
The Group recognises revenue share amounts payable or receivable in the income statement in the same period in which it recognises the related revenue.
Revenue share amounts payable or receivable if any are treated as operating costs or other operating income.
The Groups regional UKBus operations receive Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG which is essentially a rebate of fuel tax.
BSOG is recognised within operating costs as part of the net fuel costs of the Group.
performance incentive payments Performance incentive payments received from or made to Network Rail by the Group in respect of rail operational performance are recognised in the same period that the performance relates to and are treated as operating costs or other operating income.
Government grants Grants from government are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.
Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs they are intended to compensate.
Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are recorded as liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.
Amounts are held as deferred grant income within trade and other payables.
Revenue grants receivable and franchise premia amounts payable in respect of the operation of rail franchises in the UK are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the related revenue or expenditure is recognised in the income statement or where they do not relate to any specific revenue or expenditure, in the period in respect of which the amount is receivable or payable.
These premia payments and rail franchise grants are classified within operating costs and other operating income.
Share based payments The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any non-market based vesting conditions and no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest as a result of a failure to satisfy a non-market based vesting condition.
None of the Groups equity-settled transactions have any market based performance conditions.
Fair value for equity-settled share based payments is determinable from the Companys quoted share price at the time of the award.
At each balance sheet date, before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated based on managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest taking into consideration the likelihood of achieving non-market based vesting conditions.
The movement in this cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled by the Group or the holder, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value.
Fair value is estimated initially at the grant date and at each balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
Market based performance conditions are taken into account when determining fair value.
At each balance sheet date, the liability recognised is based on managements best estimate of the cash that will ultimately be payable taking into consideration the likelihood of non-market based vesting conditions being achieved.
Fair value for cash-settled share based payments relating to the Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated by use of a simulation model.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the estimated fair value of the award and the portion of the vesting period expired as at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the carrying amount of the liability are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Choice of settlement The Company can choose to settle awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan in either cash or equity, although it currently expects to settle all such awards in cash.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are accounted for as cash-settled transactions see above.
The Company can choose to settle awards under the Executive Participation Plan in either cash or equity, although it currently expects to settle all such awards in equity.
The awards under the Plan can also be structured as deferred shares or share options with a zero exercise price.
The Company intends the awards to operate in substance as deferred shares such that, subject to fulfilling the service condition, each participant receives actual shares on the applicable vesting date.
Awards under the Executive Participation Plan are accounted for as equity-settled transactions see above.
Employment taxes Liabilities are recognised for employment taxes principally, employers national insurance liabilities payable by the Group on share based payments.
The liability for employment taxes is calculated at the balance sheet date with reference to the fair value of the related share based payments at that date.
In the case of cash-settled share based payments, the fair value is the pre-tax amount recorded in the balance sheet.
Movements in the liabilities for employment taxes on share based payments are charged or credited to the income statement.
Operating profit Consolidated operating profit is stated inclusive of restructuring costs and the share of after-tax results of joint ventures but before finance income, finance costs, non-operating exceptional items and taxation.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 73 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Taxation Tax, current and deferred, is calculated using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
Corporation tax is provided on taxable profit at the current rate applicable.
Tax charges and credits are accounted for through the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax is measured at tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and law enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments, which for this purpose has been identified as the Board of Directors.
Foreign currency translation The financial statements of foreign operations are maintained in the functional currencies in which the entities transact business.
The trading results of foreign operations are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into sterling using rates of exchange at the relevant balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the opening net assets and results of foreign operations, together with exchange differences arising on net foreign currency borrowings and foreign currency derivatives, to the extent they hedge the Groups investment in foreign operations, are recognised as a separate component of equity being the translation reserve.
Further information on the Groups accounting policy on hedges of net investments in a foreign entity is provided on page 78.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of a foreign subsidiary, the amount of any exchange differences relating to the subsidiary that has been deferred in the translation reserve is recognised in the income statement within the reported gain or loss on disposal.
The principal rates of exchange applied to the consolidated financial statements were: 2016 2015 US Dollar: Year end rate 1.4649 1.5368 Average rate 1.5031 1.5988 Canadian Dollar: Year end rate 1.8349 1.8614 Average rate 1.9756 1.8323 Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given for a business over the fair value of such net assets.
The fair value of intangible assets other than goodwill and acquired customer contract provisions on the acquisition of a business are amortised to the income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prior to 1 May 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 30 April 2004 but goodwill amortisation expensed prior to 1 May 2004 was not reversed.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 May 2004 is measured at the amount recognised under the Groups previous accounting framework, UKGAAP.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 30 April 1998 and earlier periods was written off directly to equity in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill remains eliminated against equity.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future pre-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Any impairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where goodwill other than that already written off directly to equity forms part of a cash generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the disposed operation when determining the overall gain or loss on disposal.
Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets excluding goodwill and other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
page 74 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 16:00 Page 75 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Impairment of non-current assets continued An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future pre-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination are initially capitalised at cost and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The initial cost recognised is the aggregate amount paid plus the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition if i the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and ii its fair value can be measured reliably, and are subsequently measured at fair value less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated to write-off the cost or fair value at acquisition as the case may be of each asset over their estimated useful lives shown below, and is recorded in operating costs in the income statement.
Amortisation of intangible assets relating to customer contracts and lease contracts is amortised based on the pattern of the consumption of economic benefits obtained from the relevant contract.
Amortisation on other intangible assets is calculated on the straight-line method.
Intangible assets relating to rail franchises of a finite duration are amortised over the expected life of the franchise.
Operating leases on favourable terms over the life of the lease up to 4 years for current contracts Customer contracts over the life of the contract 1 to 5 years for current contracts Right to operate rail franchises over the expected life of the franchise 10 years from February 2007 to February 2017 for South West Trains franchise, 2 years and 5 months from October 2015 to March 2018 for East Midland Trains franchise and 8 years and 1 month from March 2015 to March 2023 for Virgin Trains East Coast franchise Software costs 2 to 5 years Where the life of a contract or rail franchise is shortened or extended, the useful economic lives of any related intangible assets are reviewed, the intangible assets are reviewed for impairment and the remaining carrying value of each asset is amortised over its revised, remaining economic life.
New contracts and franchises are not treated as extensions of existing arrangements even when they cover the same business operations as expiring contracts and franchises.
Marketing costs incurred during the start-up phase of a new activity are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired as part of a business combination is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition and is subsequently measured at fair value on acquisition less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write off the cost, fair value at acquisition or deemed cost of each asset to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Heritable and freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 50 years Short leasehold properties period of lease IT and other equipment, furniture and fittings 3 to 10 years Passenger Service Vehicles PSVs and transportation equipment 7 to 16 years Motor cars and other vehicles 3 to 5 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at least annually and, where applicable, adjustments are made on a prospective basis.
An item of property, plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal.
An item on which no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset is impaired if it is continued to be used by the Group.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying amount of the asset and are included in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO or average cost method.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.
Contract provisions A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet for any contract that is onerous or when acquired as part of a business combination, that is unfavourable to market terms.
A contract is considered onerous where it is probable that the future economic benefits to be derived from the contract are less than the unavoidable costs under that contract.
Determining the amount of any contract provision necessitates forecasting future cash flows and applying an appropriate discount rate to determine a net present value.
The recognition of a contract provision other than a provision arising from a business combination is charged to the consolidated income statement.
Losses that subsequently arise on that contract are treated as a utilisation of the provision to the extent they have been provided for.
The amount of any contract provision or potential contract provision is re-assessed at each balance sheet date.
Any increase or decrease required to the amount of the provision is charged or credited to the consolidated income statement.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 75 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 16:02 Page 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Pre-contract costs The costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred, except when at the time the costs are incurred it is probable that a contract will be awarded, in which case they are recognised as an intangible asset and are charged to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
In general, costs incurred in bidding for a UKrail franchise prior to the signing of a franchise agreement are expensed because until an agreement is signed, the Directors do not consider a franchise award to be probable.
Costs incurred after an agreement is signed, but before the franchise period commences, are generally capitalised as intangible assets.
Hire purchase and lease obligations Assets acquired under hire purchase and finance lease arrangements, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Fixed lease payments are apportioned between the finance costs and the reduction of the lease liability, so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance costs are charged directly against income and are reported within finance costs in the consolidated income statement.
Assets capitalised under finance leases and other similar contracts are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful economic lives.
Assets capitalised under hire purchase contracts are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Rentals under operating leases are generally charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
However, contingent rentals, principally being rental adjustments related to inflation indices, are accounted for in the period they are incurred.
The principal restriction on assets held under finance lease or hire purchase agreements is a restriction on the right to dispose of the assets during the period of the agreement.
Tokens Tokens issued by the Group to facilitate public passenger travel in the United Kingdom are credited to a token redemption provision to the extent they are expected to be redeemed.
The estimate of the balance sheet provision for token redemptions is remeasured at each balance sheet date and is based on the value of tokens issued by the Group but not yet redeemed or cancelled at the balance sheet date.
Allowance is made for the estimated proportion of tokens in issue that will never be redeemed.
Restructuring provisions Provisions for restructuring are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of associated costs can be made.
Insurance The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee claims.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made on a discounted basis for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimate of the balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not yet been reported to the Group.
The provision is set after taking account of advice from third party actuaries.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes.
In respect of defined benefit schemes, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst scheme assets are recorded at market value.
In relation to each scheme, any recognised net asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the scheme or reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the scheme or on settlement of the scheme liabilities.
The service costs of defined benefit schemes are spread systematically over the working lives of employees and included within operating profit.
Scheme administration expenses are also included within operating profit.
Net interest expense or income is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit asset or liability and included within net finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Actuarial gains and losses include the difference between the actual return on assets net of investment administration costs and taxes, such as amounts levied by the UKPension Protection Fund and the discount rates applied to the assets.
Mortality rates are considered when retirement benefit obligations are calculated.
Past service costs and adjustments are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period the vesting period, in which case the past service costs are amortised using a straight-line method over the vesting period.
Curtailments arise where the Group makes a material reduction in the number of employees covered by a pension scheme or amends a defined benefit pension schemes terms such that a material element of future service by current employees will qualify for no or significantly reduced benefits.
Settlements arise when the Group enters into a transaction that eliminates all or part of the Groups obligations for benefits provided under a defined benefit pension scheme.
The gain or loss arising on a settlement or curtailment comprises the resulting change in the net pension asset or liability, and such gain or loss is recognised in the income statement when the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Where the gain or loss is related to a disposal of a business, it is included within the reported gain or loss on disposal.
A full actuarial valuation is undertaken triennially for each scheme and updated annually using independent actuaries following the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the scheme obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related obligations.
Experience adjustments and changes in assumptions which affect actuarial gains and losses are reflected in the actuarial gain or loss for the year.
The liability or asset recognised for the relevant sections of the Railways Pension Scheme represents only that part of the net deficit or surplus of each section that the employer expects to fund or recover over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
Where the award of a new rail franchise to the Group results in it assuming a net pension liability, a corresponding intangible asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in obtaining the right to operate the franchise.
When a pension asset is assumed, a corresponding deferred income balance is recognised.
The intangible asset or deferred income balance is amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected life of the related franchise.
page 76 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 77 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Retirement benefit obligations For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions to separately administered pension schemes.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Financial instruments The disclosure of the accounting policies that follow for financial instruments are those that apply under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified, as appropriate, as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments or as available for sale.
They include cash and cash equivalents, accrued income, trade receivables, other receivables, other investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss where the assets meet the criteria for such classification.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short-term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Assets in this category are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables: Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are discounted to the present value at the point they are first recognised and are subsequently amortised to the invoice amount by the payment due date.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered in evaluating whether a trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within Other external charges.
When a trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
Held-to-maturity investments: The Group holds no held-to-maturity investments.
Available for sale financial assets: Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the above categories.
These are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of them within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
After initial recognition, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the asset is derecognised or until the asset is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is included in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss - measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss - is removed from equity and is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial liabilities When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability.
Financial liabilities include trade payables, accruals, other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement depends on its classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Such liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses being recognised in the income statement.
Other: All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to appropriate market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using pricing models and discounted cash flow analysis.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges, when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: Cash flow hedges, when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction: or Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 77 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Net gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they are either not designated or not effective as hedging instruments from an accounting perspective.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Fair value hedges: For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from both the derivative and the hedged item are taken to the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
Cash flow hedges: For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For cash flow hedges of forecast fuel purchases, the transfer is to operating costs within the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recorded in the statement of comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement immediately.
Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: For hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in the statement of comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the foreign entity is sold.
Non-derivative financial liabilities, such as foreign currency borrowings, can be designated as hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity and are subject to the same requirements as derivative hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet and cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities at the balance sheet date of twelve months or less.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective yield method subject to any adjustments in respect of fair value hedges.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Interest on borrowings to purchase property, plant and equipment is expensed in the income statement.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer or rollover settlement for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost which approximates to nominal value due to creditors days being relatively low.
Share capital and dividends Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company, its subsidiaries or employee share ownership trusts sponsored by the Company purchase ordinary shares in the Company, the consideration paid, including any attributable incremental external costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recorded in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Groups shareholders, or in the case of interim dividends, in the period in which they are paid.
page 78 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 79 Note 2 Segmental information Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors that are used to make strategic decisions.
The Group is managed, and reports internally, on a basis consistent with its five continuing operating segments, being UK Bus regional operations, megabus Europe, UK Bus London, North America and UK Rail.
megabus Europe is now reported as a separate segment having been reported within the UK Bus regional operations segment in previous years.
The prior year figures have been restated accordingly.
The Groups IFRS accounting policies are applied consistently, where appropriate, to each segment.
The segmental information provided in this note is on the basis of the five operating segments as follows: Segment name Service operated Country of operation UK Bus regional operations Coach and bus operations United Kingdom megabus Europe Coach operations United Kingdom and mainland Europe UK Bus London Bus operations United Kingdom North America Coach and bus operations United Statesand Canada UK Rail Rail operations United Kingdom The Group has interests in three joint ventures: VirginRail Group that operates in UKRail, Citylink that operates in UKBus regional operations and Twin America LLC that operates in North America.
The results of these joint ventures are shown separately in notes 2 c and 2 g. a Revenue Due to the nature of the Groups business, the origin and destination of revenue i. e. United Kingdom, mainland Europe or NorthAmerica is the same in all cases except in respect of an immaterial amount of revenue for services operated by megabus Europe between the UK and mainland Europe.
As the Group sells bus and rail services to individuals, it has few customers that are individually major.
Its major customers are typically public bodies that subsidise or procure transport services such customers include local authorities, transport authorities and the UK Department for Transport.
Revenue split by segment was as follows: 2016 2015 m m Continuing operations UK Bus regional operations 1,032.8 1,036.3 megabus Europe 18.4 9.2 UK Bus London 267.1 260.6 North America 430.9 425.4 Total bus continuing operations 1,749.2 1,731.5 UK Rail 2,129.1 1,478.4 Total Group revenue 3,878.3 3,209.9 Intra-Group revenue UKBus regional operations 7.2 5.5 Reported Group revenue 3,871.1 3,204.4 b Operating profit Operating profit split by segment was as follows: 2016 2015 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items note 4 the year exceptional items items note 4 the year m m m m m m Continuing operations UK Bus regional operations 137.3 137.3 145.3 145.3 megabus Europe 24.1 24.1 4.2 4.2 UK Bus London 20.2 20.2 26.3 26.3 North America 18.9 18.9 22.1 22.1 Total bus continuing operations 152.3 152.3 189.5 189.5 UK Rail 66.7 6.0 60.7 26.9 26.9 Total continuing operations 219.0 6.0 213.0 216.4 216.4 Group overheads 11.9 11.9 13.9 13.9 Intangible asset expenses 15.8 15.8 11.9 11.9 Restructuring costs 3.1 3.1 0.8 0.8 Total operating profit of continuing Group companies 204.0 21.8 182.2 201.7 11.9 189.8 Share of joint ventures loss profit after finance costs, finance income and taxation 24.8 35.9 11.1 25.4 2.7 28.1 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures loss profit after taxation 228.8 57.7 171.1 227.1 9.2 217.9 Stagecoach Group plc | page 79 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 Segmental information continued c Joint ventures The share of loss profit from joint ventures was further split as follows: 2016 2015 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items note 4 the year exceptional items items note 4 the year m m m m m m Continuing Virgin Rail Group UK Rail Operating profit 32.6 32.6 28.0 28.0 Finance income net 0.7 0.7 Taxation 9.1 9.1 5.7 5.7 24.2 24.2 22.3 22.3 Citylink UK Bus, regional operations Operating profit 1.8 1.8 1.4 1.4 Taxation 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 1.4 1.4 1.1 1.1 Twin America LLC North America Operating loss profit 0.6 0.6 2.1 2.7 4.8 Impairment loss 35.9 35.9 Finance costs net 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.8 35.9 36.7 2.0 2.7 4.7 Share of loss profit of joint ventures after finance costs, finance income and taxation 24.8 35.9 11.1 25.4 2.7 28.1 d Gross assets and liabilities Assets and liabilities split by segment were as follows: 2016 2015 Gross Net assets Gross Net assets assets Gross liabilities liabilities assets Gross liabilities liabilities m m m m m m UK Bus regional operations 909.2 283.2 626.0 861.7 341.2 520.5 megabus Europe 24.2 5.6 18.6 5.0 0.6 4.4 UK Bus London 74.3 103.6 29.3 80.5 99.1 18.6 North America 391.8 132.4 259.4 372.0 129.3 242.7 UK Rail 413.0 635.8 222.8 415.1 660.6 245.5 1,812.5 1,160.6 651.9 1,734.3 1,230.8 503.5 Central functions 25.0 53.2 28.2 24.3 37.7 13.4 Joint ventures 22.4 22.4 57.8 57.8 Borrowings and cash 382.3 791.8 409.5 395.6 785.3 389.7 Taxation 58.8 58.8 0.1 63.3 63.2 Total 2,242.2 2,064.4 177.8 2,212.1 2,117.1 95.0 Central assets and liabilities include the token provision, interest payable and receivable and other net assets of the holding company and other head office companies.
Segment assets and liabilities are determined by identifying the assets and liabilities that relate to the business of each segment but excluding intraGroup balances, cash, borrowings, taxation, interest payable, interest receivable and the token provision.
page 80 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 81 Note 2 Segmental information continued e Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment The capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment is shown below and is on an accruals basis, not on a cash basis.
2016 2015 m m UK Bus regional operations 123.8 119.8 megabus Europe 7.3 4.5 UK Bus London 2.5 3.8 North America 52.8 31.1 UK Rail 33.2 43.8 219.6 203.0 f Capital expenditure on intangible assets The capital expenditure on intangible assets including goodwill is shown below.
2016 2015 m m UK Bus regional operations 14.2 8.4 UKRail 5.4 64.9 19.6 73.3 g earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation eBITDA The results of each segment are further analysed below: Year ended 30 April 2016 EBITDA Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture including joint pre intangibles Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and venture interest Depreciation and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax and tax expense items expenses items costs profit m m m m m m m m m UK Bus regional operations 208.5 208.5 71.2 137.3 2.6 0.9 133.8 megabus Europe 20.4 20.4 3.7 24.1 24.1 UK Bus London 26.1 26.1 5.9 20.2 0.3 0.1 19.8 North America 56.2 56.2 37.3 18.9 1.8 0.6 16.5 UK Rail subsidiaries 80.6 80.6 13.9 66.7 11.1 6.0 1.5 48.1 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 32.6 8.4 24.2 24.2 24.2 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 1.8 0.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 North America joint venture Twin America 0.6 0.2 0.8 0.8 35.9 36.7 Group overheads 11.7 11.7 0.2 11.9 11.9 Restructuring costs 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 370.0 9.0 361.0 132.2 228.8 15.8 41.9 171.1 Year ended 30 April 2015 EBITDA Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture including joint pre intangibles Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and venture interest Depreciation and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax and tax expense items expenses items costs profit m m m m m m m m m UK Bus regional operations 215.3 215.3 70.0 145.3 1.5 0.4 143.4 megabus Europe 3.1 3.1 1.1 4.2 4.2 UK Bus London 32.4 32.4 6.1 26.3 0.8 25.5 North America 55.7 55.7 33.6 22.1 5.3 0.2 16.6 UK Rail subsidiaries 35.9 35.9 9.0 26.9 4.3 0.2 22.4 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 28.0 5.7 22.3 22.3 22.3 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 1.4 0.3 1.1 1.1 1.1 North America joint venture Twin America 2.1 0.1 2.0 2.0 2.7 4.7 Group overheads 13.6 13.6 0.3 13.9 13.9 Restructuring costs 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 353.3 6.1 347.2 120.1 227.1 11.9 2.7 217.9 Stagecoach Group plc | page 81 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Operating costs and other operating income Operating costs and other operating income were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Miscellaneous revenue see explanation below 183.3 131.2 Rail franchise premia see explanation below 935.7 805.7 Rail revenue support see explanation below 274.0 315.3 Materials and consumables 416.4 419.8 Staff costs note 6 1,382.3 1,203.8 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment note 12 132.2 120.1 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 2.3 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 27.2 32.8 Amortisation of intangible assets note 11 15.8 11.9 Network Rail charges, including electricity for traction 234.1 197.4 Operating lease rentals payable 292.2 207.7 Other external charges 700.7 463.4 Impairment note 4 6.0 Restructuring costs 3.1 0.8 Total operating costs and other operating income 3,688.9 3,014.6 Miscellaneous revenue comprises revenue incidental to the Groups principal activities.
It includes commissions receivable, advertising income, maintenance income, railway station access income, railway depot access income, fuel sales and property income.
Rail franchise premia is the amount of financial premia payable to the UKs Department for Transport in respect of the operation of UK passenger rail franchises.
Rail revenue support is the amount of financial support receivable from the UKs Department for Transport in certain circumstances where a train operating companys revenue is below target or where defined macroeconomic indices are below target.
Amounts payable to the Companys auditors,  LLP, and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and non-audit services are shown below: 2016 2015 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the Companys financial statements and consolidated financial statements 400.0 400.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 510.0 434.0 Total audit fees 910.0 834.0 Taxation advisory services 20.0 46.5 Taxation compliance services 28.0 Other non-audit services 23.5 Other assurance services 103.6 96.0 Non-audit fees 175.1 142.5 Total fees payable by the Group to its auditors 1,085.1 976.5 In addition to the fees detailed above,  LLP received US$180,000 2015: US$165,000 in relation to the audit of the Groups joint venture, Twin America LLC.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report in section 5 of this Annual Report, and includes an explanation of how auditor independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
page 82 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 83 Note 4 exceptional items and intangible asset expenses The Group highlights amounts before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items as well as clearly reporting the results in accordance with IFRS.
Information on exceptional items is provided in section 1.6.
The items shown in the column headed Intangibles and exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 April 2016 and for the prior year comparatives can be further analysed as follows: 2016 2015 Exceptional Intangible Intangibles and Exceptional Intangible Intangibles and items asset expenses exceptional items items asset expenses exceptional items m m m m m m Operating costs Impairment of assets at Sheffield Supertram 6.0 6.0 Intangible asset expenses 15.8 15.8 11.9 11.9 6.0 15.8 21.8 11.9 11.9 Share of loss profit of joint ventures Twin America litigation 2.7 2.7 Impairment of interest in TwinAmerica 35.9 35.9 35.9 35.9 2.7 2.7 Non-operating exceptional items Provision for commitment to Twin America 2.0 2.0 Provision for onerous property lease 2.1 2.1 TwinAmerica litigation 8.5 8.5 Non-operating exceptional items 2.0 2.0 10.6 10.6 Finance costs Premium on early redemption of bonds 21.3 21.3 Cancellation of ineffective interest rate swaps 2.0 2.0 Finance costs 23.3 23.3 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 67.2 15.8 83.0 7.9 11.9 19.8 Tax effect of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 19.4 2.0 21.4 2.3 3.1 5.4 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taxation 47.8 13.8 61.6 5.6 8.8 14.4 In respect of the TwinAmerica litigation, the Group made payments in the year ended 30 April 2016 of 1.4m 2015: 4.5m to settle litigation and legal fees.
Its share of payments made by Twin America in that respect was 1.1m 2015: 6.7m.
The 23.3m 2015: Nil of exceptional finance costs were paid in cash in the year ended 30 April 2016.
Note 5 Finance costs and income Net finance costs and items of income, expense, gains and losses in respect of financial instruments excluding commodity hedges, trade and other payables, and trade and other receivables have been recognised in the income statement as follows: 2016 2015 m m Interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss Interest receivable on cash 1.4 1.5 Interest income on fair value hedges Interest receivable on interest rate swaps qualifying as fair value hedges 0.3 1.2 Finance income 1.7 2.7 Interest expense on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit and loss Interest payable and other facility costs on bank loans, loan notes, overdrafts and trade finance 5.9 7.9 Interest payable on hire purchase and finance leases 2.1 2.5 Interest payable and other finance costs on bonds 25.9 27.3 Other finance costs Unwinding of discounts on provisions 3.9 3.8 Interest charge on defined benefit pension schemes 5.3 3.3 Exceptional finance costs note 4 23.3 Finance costs 66.4 44.8 Net finance costs 64.7 42.1 Stagecoach Group plc | page 83 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 6 Staff costs Total staff costs were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Staff costs Wages and salaries 1,177.2 1,027.0 Social security costs 100.9 91.1 Pension costs, excluding interest on net liability note 25 101.4 80.9 Share based payment costs excluding social security costs Equity-settled 2.2 2.2 Cash-settled 0.6 2.6 1,382.3 1,203.8 The total amount shown for staff costs above includes an amount of Nil 2015: 0.5m in respect of share based payment costs for the Directors.
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and full information on their remuneration, waivers of remuneration, share based payments, incentive schemes and pensions is contained within the Directors remuneration report in section 8 of this Annual Report.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors was as follows: 2016 2015 number number UK operations 31,296 28,381 UK administration and supervisory 3,862 3,430 North America 4,669 4,860 Mainland Europe 376 138 40,203 36,809 The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year, split by segment, was as follows: 2016 2015 number number UK Bus regional operations 20,513 19,937 megabus Europe 376 138 UK Bus London 4,189 4,144 North America 4,669 4,860 UKRail 10,342 7,609 Central 114 121 40,203 36,809 page 84 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 85 Note 7 Taxation a Analysis of charge in the year 2016 2015 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items note 4 the year exceptional items items note 4 the year m m m m m m Current tax: UK corporation tax at 20.0% 2015: 20.9% 21.8 1.3 20.5 22.3 1.4 20.9 Prior year over provision for corporation tax 2.2 2.2 2.7 2.7 Foreign tax current year 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 Foreign tax prior year 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.4 Total current tax 20.3 1.3 19.0 20.8 1.4 19.4 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 14.3 20.1 5.8 14.2 4.0 10.2 Change in tax rates 5.0 5.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.8 2.8 3.9 3.9 Total deferred tax note 23 6.5 20.1 13.6 10.3 4.0 6.3 Total tax on profit 26.8 21.4 5.4 31.1 5.4 25.7 b Factors affecting tax charge for the year 2016 2015 m m Profit before taxation 104.4 165.2 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax applying to the year in the UK of 20.0% 2015: 20.9% 20.9 34.5 Effects of: Intangible asset allowances deductions 1.5 0.3 Non-deductible expenditure non-taxable income 1.7 1.6 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised as deferred tax assets 0.2 Foreign taxes differences 3.3 0.6 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 5.1 6.2 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 5.0 4.7 Change in UK corporation rate 5.1 0.4 Total taxation note 7a 5.4 25.7 c Factors that may affect future tax charges There are no temporary differences associated with investments in foreign subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised.
Gross deductible temporary differences of 23.2m 2015: 27.4m have not been recognised due to restrictions in the availability of their use.
Temporary differences in respect of the revaluation of land and buildings and in respect of rolled over capital gains are fully offset by temporary differences in respect of capital losses.
The deferred tax balances have been calculated with reference to the enacted UK corporation tax rates of 20% to 31 March 2017, 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020 2015: 20%.
A planned reduction in the rate to 17% has yet to be substantively enacted.
Had the reduction in the rate to 17% been substantively enacted, the estimated impact of this reduction on the deferred tax liability would be a reduction of 1.8m.
d Tax on items taken directly or transferred from equity The components of tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity are shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on page 67 and the consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 69.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 85 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 8 Dividends Dividends payable in respect of ordinary shares are shown below.
2016 2015 2016 2015 pence per share pence per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions in the year Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend in respect of the previous year 7.3 6.6 41.9 37.9 Interim dividend in respect of the current year 3.5 3.2 20.1 18.4 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year 10.8 9.8 62.0 56.3 Dividends proposed but neither paid nor included as liabilities in the financial statements Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend in respect of the current year 7.9 7.3 45.3 41.9 Note 9 earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding any ordinary shares held in treasury and by employee share ownership trusts.
The diluted earnings per share was calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares in relation to executive share plans and long-term incentive plans.
of shares million million Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 573.8 574.4 Dilutive ordinary shares Long Term Incentive Plan 0.2 Executive Participation Plan 2.0 2.3 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 575.8 576.9 2016 2015 m m Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent for basic EPS calculation 97.9 139.3 Intangible asset expenses before tax see note 4 15.8 11.9 Non-controlling interest in intangible asset expenses 0.7 0.1 Exceptional items before tax see note 4 67.2 7.9 Tax effect of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items see note 4 21.4 5.4 Profit for adjusted EPS calculation 158.8 153.6 Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items adjusted EPS is calculated by adding back intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taking account of taxation and the non-controlling interest, as shown on the consolidated income statement.
This has been presented to allow shareholders to gain a further understanding of the underlying performance.
page 86 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 87 Note 10 Goodwill The movements in goodwill were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Cost and net book value At beginning of year 132.9 125.4 Foreign exchange movements 4.0 7.5 At end of year 136.9 132.9 For the purpose of impairment testing, all goodwill that has been acquired in business combinations has been allocated to three individual cash generating units CGUs on the basis of the Groups operations.
Each cash generating unit is an operational division.
The UK Bus regional operations and UKBus London cash generating units operate coach and bus operations in the United Kingdom.
The North America cash generating unit operates coach and bus operations in the US and Canada.
No goodwill has been allocated to the Groups megabus Europe and UK rail operations.
The cash generating units are as follows: UKBus UK Bus North America regional operations London 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m m m Carrying amount of goodwill 47.5 47.5 3.6 3.6 85.8 81.8 Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined Value in use Value in use Value in use Value in use Value in use Value in use Period covered by approved management plans used in value in use calculation 5 years 5 years 5 years 5 years 5 years 5 years Pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections 8.6% 9.0% 8.6% 9.0% 11.3% 11.8% Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond period of management plan 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% 4.3% 4.4% Difference between above growth rate and long-term average growth rate for market in which unit operates Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil The calculation of value in use for each cash generating unit shown above is most sensitive to the assumptions on discount rates and growth rates and in the case of UKBus London, the number of new contracts won and the commercial terms of such contracts.
The assumptions used are considered to be consistent with past experience and external sources of information and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in section 1.4.
The cost base of the UK Bus regional operations and North American operations can be flexed in response to changes in revenue and there is scope to reduce capital expenditure in the medium-term if other cash flows deteriorate.
Risks to the cash flow forecasts remain, however, and are described in section 1.4.
The cost base of UK Bus London is less flexible because the business is contractually committed to operate the majority of its services.
The discount rates have been determined with reference to the estimated post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC of the Group.
The WACC has been estimated as at 30 April 2016 at 6.9% 2015: 7.2% based on: The market capitalisation and net debt of the Group as at 30 April 2016 as an indication of the split between debt and equity: A risk-free rate of 1.7% 2015: 1.9% : A levered beta for the Group of 0.8 2015: 0.8 : A marginal pre-tax cost of debt of 3.9% 2015: 5.4%.
The pre-tax discount rate for each CGU has been determined by adjusting the Groups WACC for the risk profile and effects of tax on each of the relevant CGUs.
The Directors believe that in the case of each of the cash generating units shown above, any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount of the unit is based would not cause its carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 87 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 11Other intangible assets The movements in other intangible assets, none of which were internally generated and all of which are assumed to have finite useful lives, were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2016 Operating Customer Rail Software leases contracts franchises costs Total m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 1.1 21.9 80.6 29.8 133.4 Additions 0.1 0.2 19.3 19.6 Disposals 1.1 2.6 7.7 11.4 Foreign exchange movements 1.0 0.3 1.3 At end of year 20.4 73.1 49.4 142.9 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 1.1 19.8 18.9 8.9 48.7 Amortisation charged to income statement 1.5 8.8 5.5 15.8 Disposals 1.1 2.6 7.7 11.4 Foreign exchange movements 0.9 0.2 1.1 At end of year 19.6 20.0 14.6 54.2 Net book value at beginning of year 2.1 61.7 20.9 84.7 Net book value at end of year 0.8 53.1 34.8 88.7 Intangible assets include customer contracts and operating leases on favourable terms to market purchased as part of business combinations, the right to operate UK Rail franchises and software costs.
Year ended 30 April 2015 Operating Customer Non-compete Rail Software leases contracts contracts franchises costs Total m m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 1.0 38.0 4.1 19.7 16.9 79.7 Additions 60.9 12.4 73.3 Disposals 17.7 4.3 22.0 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 1.6 0.2 0.5 2.4 At end of year 1.1 21.9 80.6 29.8 133.4 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 0.6 30.9 4.1 15.4 6.1 57.1 Amortisation charged to income statement 0.4 5.4 3.5 2.6 11.9 Disposals 17.7 4.3 22.0 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 1.2 0.2 0.2 1.7 At end of year 1.1 19.8 18.9 8.9 48.7 Net book value at beginning of year 0.4 7.1 4.3 10.8 22.6 Net book value at end of year 2.1 61.7 20.9 84.7 page 88 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 89 Note 12property, plant and equipment The movements in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Land and Passenger Other plant Year ended 30 April 2016 buildings service vehicles and equipment Total m m m m Cost At beginning of year 327.0 1,364.1 222.0 1,913.1 Additions 18.6 153.0 48.0 219.6 Disposals 4.2 72.3 28.4 104.9 Reclassifications 2.6 2.6 Foreign exchange movements 2.4 19.0 0.2 21.6 At end of year 341.2 1,463.8 244.4 2,049.4 Depreciation At beginning of year 70.4 587.5 157.3 815.2 Depreciation charged to income statement 9.3 103.9 19.0 132.2 Disposals 2.3 61.8 9.0 73.1 Reclassifications 1.1 1.1 Foreign exchange movements 0.8 9.1 9.9 At end of year 77.1 638.7 168.4 884.2 Net book value at beginning of year 256.6 776.6 64.7 1,097.9 Net book value at end of year 264.1 825.1 76.0 1,165.2 Included in the above net book value at end of year are: Assets on hire purchase 78.2 78.2 Assets on finance leases 43.3 43.3 Long leasehold land and buildings 51.4 51.4 Included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment is 8.9m 2015: 17.1m in respect of assets under construction that the Group expects to be sold to Network Rail and other third parties following the completion of each assets construction.
Year ended 30 April 2015 Land and Passenger Other plant buildings service vehicles and equipment Total m m m m Cost At beginning of year 322.7 1,259.0 224.9 1,806.6 Additions 13.4 138.5 51.1 203.0 Disposals 16.7 64.2 50.7 131.6 Reclassifications 3.4 3.4 Foreign exchange movements 4.2 30.8 0.1 35.1 At end of year 327.0 1,364.1 222.0 1,913.1 Depreciation At beginning of year 66.1 535.6 164.0 765.7 Depreciation charged to income statement 10.0 96.6 13.5 120.1 Disposals 6.9 58.6 20.2 85.7 Foreign exchange movements 1.2 13.9 15.1 At end of year 70.4 587.5 157.3 815.2 Net book value at beginning of year 256.6 723.4 60.9 1,040.9 Net book value at end of year 256.6 776.6 64.7 1,097.9 Included in the above net book value at end of year are: Assets on hire purchase 90.5 90.5 Assets on finance leases 36.8 36.8 Long leasehold land and buildings 48.7 48.7 Stagecoach Group plc | page 89 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13Interests in joint ventures The Group has three joint ventures as summarised below.
Each joint venture is structured as a distinct legal entity and the Group accounts for its interests in all three joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
There are no quoted market prices for any of the Groups investments in joint ventures.
a Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited The Group holds 49% of the equity and voting rights in Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited Virgin Rail Group.
The principal business of the group headed by Virgin Rail Group is the operation of inter-city train services under the West Coast rail franchise.
Virgin Rail Group is incorporated in the UK.
The Group considers that it has joint control of Virgin Rail Group even though it controls less than half of the voting rights in Virgin Rail Group.
That joint control results from contractual arrangements between the shareholders of Virgin Rail Group that require the agreement of both shareholders to make decisions on key matters.
Virgin Rail Groups principal subsidiary is West Coast Trains Limited.
Under the terms of its rail franchise agreement, West Coast Trains Limited may only pay dividends and or repay loans from other related companies to the extent it remains compliant with certain financial ratios specified in the franchise agreement.
This could restrict West Coast Trains Limited from making distributions or repaying loans that would be otherwise permitted by company law.
West Coast Trains Limited is also prohibited from loaning money to related companies without the prior consent of the UK Department for Transport.
Such restrictions on distributions and loans generally apply to all entities operating train services under UK rail franchise agreements.
In addition, under arrangements pursuant to which a performance bond has been issued by an insurance company in connection with the West Coast rail franchise, Virgin Rail Group is required to maintain consolidated net assets applying its own accounting policies of no less than 22.5m 2015: 22.5m.
This could restrict Virgin Rail Groups ability to make distributions to the Stagecoach Group.
Subject to the shareholders consideration of how much cash to retain in the business for working capital requirements and subject to retaining sufficient cash to meet any obligations under rail franchise agreements, the distributable profits of Virgin Rail Group are to be distributed in full to its shareholders.
Both shareholders in Virgin Rail Group would need to agree to any changes to or deviations from that dividend policy.
b Twin America LLC The Group holds 60% of the economic interests and 50% of the voting rights in Twin America LLC Twin America.
The principal business of the group headed by Twin America is the operation of sightseeing coach tours in and around the city of New York in the United States.
Twin America is incorporated in the United States.
Contractual arrangements are in place in respect of Twin America which require the agreement of both members to decisions on key matters.
In light of that, the fact voting rights are split 50:50 between the two joint venture members and despite the fact that the Chief Executive of Twin America is a representative of the other member, the Group considers that it has joint control of Twin America.
In connection with the settlement of litigation see note 31 iv, the Group contractually committed to make loans to Twin America.
As at 30 April 2016, no loans 2015: US$9.0m were outstanding and the remaining loan commitment that Twin America could draw from the Group in certain circumstances was US$3.0m 2015: US$6.0m.
The Group has contractually committed to pay further non-refundable amounts of US$2.0m 2015: US$2.0m to the plaintiffs in connection with the Twin America litigation.
Twin America has contractually committed to pay further non-refundable amounts of US$3.0m and the Group could be directly liable for these amounts if Twin America fails to meet its payment obligations.
Other than where both members agree otherwise, the available cash flow of Twin America is distributed to its members quarterly after retaining sufficient cash for the anticipated working capital needs of the business.
c Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited The Group holds 35% of the equity and voting rights in Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited Citylink.
The principal business of Citylink is the operation of inter-city coach services to, from and within Scotland.
It is incorporated in the UK.
The Group considers that it has joint control of Citylink even although it controls less than half of the voting rights in Citylink but is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
That joint control results from contractual arrangements between the shareholders of Citylink that require the agreement of both shareholders to make decisions on key matters.
The profit after tax of Citylink is distributed in full to its shareholders subject to retaining sufficient cash to meet the liquidity requirements of the business and subject to there being no outstanding amounts payable by Citylink in respect of loans from its shareholders and accrued interest on such loans.
Both shareholders in Citylink need to agree to any changes to or deviations from that dividend policy.
d Impairment reviews The Directors undertook an impairment review as at 30 April 2016 of the carrying value of the Groups joint venture interests.
Other than in respect of Twin America, they concluded that there were no impairment losses and no reasonably possible change that would cause the carrying values to exceed the recoverable amounts.
Trading at Twin America has remained challenging during the year ended 30 April 2016, as the New York sightseeing market continues to be competitive.
Following an impairment review, an impairment loss of 35.9m has been recognised.
page 90 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 91 Note 13Interests in joint ventures continued e Movements in carrying values The movements in the carrying values were as follows: Virgin Rail Twin Total Total Group Citylink America LLC 2016 2015 m m m m m Net book value At beginning of year 17.1 4.8 35.9 57.8 42.8 Share of recognised profit loss 24.2 1.4 36.7 11.1 28.1 Share of actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 4.0 4.0 0.1 Share of other comprehensive expense on cash flow hedges, net of tax 0.3 0.3 1.8 Share of foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.2 Dividends received in cash 27.1 1.7 28.8 14.5 Foreign exchange movements 0.8 0.8 3.3 At end of year 17.9 4.5 22.4 57.8 A loan payable to Citylink of 1.7m 2015: 1.7m is reflected in note 21.
A loan receivable from Twin America of Nil 2015: 5.9m is reflected in note 19. f Summarised financial information of joint ventures The summarised financial information shown below is in accordance with IFRS and the Groups accounting policies.
Where a joint ventures own accounts are prepared other than in accordance with IFRS and the Groups accounting policies, appropriate adjustments have been made to determine the figures shown below.
Adjustments have also been made, as appropriate, to reflect fair value adjustments made at the time of acquisition.
Except where stated, the amounts shown are in respect of 100% of each joint venture and not just the Groups share of the joint venture.
Each of the Groups joint ventures has a statutory financial year-end that differs from that of the Groups, which is 30 April.
In applying the equity method of accounting to its interests in joint ventures, the Group refers to the edition of each joint ventures management accounts that has a balance sheet date closest to the Groups balance sheet date.
In some cases, the balance sheet date differs from the Groups by a few days but the impact of that on the Groups consolidated financial statements is not material.
Further information on the relevant dates in respect of joint ventures is below: Joint venture Latest statutory financial year-end Balance sheet date of management accounts closest to 30 April 2016 Virgin Rail Group 31 March 2016 30 April 2016 Twin America 31 March 2016 30 April 2016 Citylink 31 December 2015 30 April 2016 Stagecoach Group plc | page 91 m m 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 13Interests in joint ventures continued g Summarised financial information of joint ventures continued The consolidated balance sheets of each of the Groups other joint ventures are summarised below: As at 30 April 2016 Virgin Rail Twin Total Group Citylink America 2016 m m m m Non-current assets 21.2 0.1 6.4 Cash and cash equivalents 98.4 1.4 5.9 Other current assets 84.3 9.0 6.6 Non-current liabilities 10.1 10.3 Current liabilities 157.1 5.2 8.6 Net assets 36.7 5.3 Non-controlling interests 0.2 Shareholders funds 36.5 5.3 Group share 49% 35% 60% Group share of net assets 17.9 1.9 19.8 Goodwill 2.6 2.6 Group interest in joint ventures 17.9 4.5 22.4 As at 30 April 2015 Virgin Rail Twin Total Group Citylink America 2015 m m m m Non-current assets 16.2 0.1 18.8 Cash and cash equivalents 92.3 3.3 5.5 Other current assets 85.3 11.3 6.2 Non-current liabilities 9.8 3.8 Current liabilities 149.0 8.4 15.8 Net assets 35.0 6.3 10.9 Non-controlling interests 0.1 Shareholders funds 34.9 6.3 10.9 Group share 49% 35% 60% Group share of net assets 17.1 2.2 6.5 25.8 Goodwill 2.6 29.4 32.0 Group interest in joint ventures 17.1 4.8 35.9 57.8 The assets and liabilities shown above include the following financial assets and financial liabilities excluding cash, cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, trade payables and other payables : 2016 2015 Virgin Rail Group Non-current assets derivative instruments at fair value 0.4 Non-current liabilities derivative instruments at fair value 2.4 Current liabilities derivative instruments at fair value 4.5 2.3 Citylink Current assets loan to Stagecoach Group 1.7 1.7 Twin America Current liabilities bank borrowings 6.5 Current liabilities loan from Stagecoach Group 5.9 page 92 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 93 Note 13Interests in joint ventures continued g Summarised financial information of joint ventures continued The financial performance of each of the Groups joint ventures is summarised below: Year ended 30 April 2016 Virgin Rail Twin Group Citylink America m m m Revenue 1,072.1 41.2 77.4 Depreciation & amortisation 3.2 Other operating expenses 1,005.5 36.0 75.2 Operating profit loss 66.6 5.2 1.0 Finance income 1.4 Finance costs 0.3 Taxation 18.6 1.1 profit after tax 49.4 4.1 1.3 Other comprehensive income 7.6 Total comprehensive income 57.0 4.1 1.3 In addition to the above amounts, the Group has recognised exceptional costs in the year ended 30 April 2016 in respect of TwinAmerica see note 4.
Year ended 30 April 2015 Virgin Rail Twin Group Citylink America m m m Revenue 1,041.4 43.7 77.9 Depreciation & amortisation 0.3 3.2 Other operating expenses 984.0 39.9 71.2 Operating profit 57.1 3.8 3.5 Exceptional items 4.5 Finance income 0.5 Finance costs 0.5 0.2 Taxation 11.6 0.8 profit after tax 45.5 3.0 7.8 Other comprehensive expense 3.5 0.3 Total comprehensive income 42.0 3.0 7.5 Note 14Available for sale and other investments The available for sale and other investments of the Group are immaterial.
Note 15Business combinations The Group completed no material business combinations during the year ended 30 April 2016.
Details of business combinations completed in previous years are provided in the Annual Reports for the years concerned.
Note 16Disposals The Group completed no material disposals of businesses during the year ended 30 April 2016.
Details of disposals of businesses completed in previous years are provided in the Annual Reports for the years concerned.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 93 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 17 Subsidiary and related undertakings The Company owns the following subsidiary and related undertakings.
The Company indirectly owns 100% of each undertaking through its holding of the stated class or classes of share or other interest unless otherwise stated.
Company Country of registration Class of shares other interest 3329003 Canada Inc Canada A Shares 3376249 Canada Inc Canada Common shares and Dividend Access shares 349 First Street Urban Renewal Corporation United States Common stock 4216849 Canada Inc Canada Common stock 777 8th Avenue LLC 50% United States LLC Units A1 Service Limited Scotland Guarantor AA Buses Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Aberdare Bus Company Limited England Ordinary shares All West Coachlines Inc United States Common Stock American Coach Lines of Atlanta Inc United States Common Stock American New York Tours Corporation United States Common A and Common B non-voting American Tour Connection Inc United States Common stock Andrews Sheffield Limited England Ordinary shares Atlanta Airport Shuttle Inc United States Common stock B&B Bus Company Inc United States Common stock Barclay Airport Service Inc United States Common stock Barclay Transportation Services Inc United States Common stock Basichour Limited England Ordinary shares Bayline Limited England Ordinary shares Bluebird Buses Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Busways Travel Services 1986 Limited England Ordinary shares Busways Travel Services Limited England Ordinary shares and Ordinary-A shares Busways Trustee No.
1 Limited England Ordinary shares Busways Trustee No.
2 Limited England Ordinary shares Butler Motor Transit Inc United States Common stock CAM Leasing LLC United States LLC Units Cambus Limited England Ordinary shares Cape Transit Corporation United States Common stock Central Cab Company Inc United States Common stock Central Charters & Tours Inc United States Common stock Central Jersey Transit Inc United States Common stock Century Airline Services Inc Canada Common stock Cheltenham and Gloucester Omnibus Company Limited England Ordinary and Preference shares Cheltenham District Traction Limited England Ordinary shares Chenango Valley Bus Lines Inc United States Common stock Chesterfield Transport 1989 Limited England Ordinary shares Chesterfield Transport EBT number 2 Limited England Ordinary shares Chesterfield Transport Limited England Ordinary shares Chesterfield Transport PST Limited England Ordinary shares Cisko Bus Company United States Common stock Cleveland Transit Limited England Ordinary shares Cleveland Transit Trustee No.
1 Limited England Ordinary shares Clinton Avenue Bus Company United States Common stock Coach Leasing Inc United States Common stock Coach USA Administration Inc United States Common stock Coach USA Inc United States Common stock Coach USA Investment Inc United States Common stock Coach USA MBT LLC United States LLC Units Coach USA Tours - Las Vegas Inc United States Common stock Colonial Coach Corporation United States Common stock Commodore Tours Inc United States Common stock Community Bus Lines Inc United States Common stock Community Coach Inc United States Common stock Community Tours Inc United States Common stock Community Transit Lines Inc United States Common stock Community Transportation Inc United States Common stock County Wide Travel Limited England Ordinary shares Cumberland Motor Services Limited England Ordinary shares Devon General Limited England Ordinary shares Dillon's Bus Service Inc United States Common stock page 94 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 95 Note 17 Subsidiary and related undertakings continued Company Country of registration Class of shares other interest Douglas Braund Investments Limited Canada Class A, Common and preference shares Dragon Bus LLC United States LLC Units E&A Bus Company United States Common stock East Coast Mainline Company Limited 90% England Ordinary shares East Kent Coaches Limited England Ordinary shares East Kent Road Car Company Limited England Ordinary shares East London Bus and Coach Company Limited England Ordinary shares East London Bus Group Property Investments Limited England Ordinary shares East London Bus Limited England Ordinary shares East Midlands Trains Limited England Ordinary shares East Midlands Transport Information Service Limited 28% England Ordinary shares Eastbourne Buses Limited England Ordinary shares Elizabeth Bus Company United States Common stock ELKO Inc United States Common stock Fife Scottish Omnibuses Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Fleet Buzz Limited England Ordinary shares Formia Limited England Ordinary shares Frenchwood Holdings Limited England Ordinary shares Friedman Transportation Inc United States Common stock G&G Travel Limited England Ordinary shares Gad About Tours Inc United States Common stock Generic Holding Inc United States Common stock Gilsam Bus Company Inc United States Common stock GL Bus Lines Inc United States Common stock Glenvale Transport Limited England Ordinary shares Glossopdale Bus Company Limited England Ordinary shares GM Buses South EBT Limited England Ordinary shares Go West Travel Limited England Ordinary shares Gray Line Air Shuttle Inc United States Class A and Class B stock Gray Line New York Tours Inc 50% United States Class A common stock and class B non-voting stock Greater Manchester Buses South Limited England Ordinary shares Greater Manchester Buses West Limited England Ordinary shares Grimsby Cleethorpes Transport Company Limited England Ordinary shares  1988 Limited England Ordinary shares HAML Corporation United States Common stock Hartlepool Transport 1993 Limited England Ordinary B and Preference shares Hartlepool Transport Limited England Ordinary shares Hastings and District Transport Limited England Ordinary shares High Adventure Tours Inc United States Common stock Highland Country Buses Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Hudson Transit Corporation United States Common stock Hudson Transit Lines Inc United States Common stock Independent Bus Company Inc United States Common stock Inter City Railways Limited 90% England A Shares International Bus Services Inc United States Common stock J&J Bus Company United States Common stock J&J Transit Inc United States Common stock J&L Bus Company United States Common stock Jeredin Cruises LLC 50% United States LLC Units JMB Property LLC 50% United States LLC Units JW Coaches Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Kansas Bus Company United States Common stock Keeshin Charter Service Inc United States Common stock Kerrville Bus Company United States Common stock KHCT ESOP Limited England Ordinary shares KHCT Holdings Limited England Ordinary shares KILT of CT Inc previously The Arrow Line Inc United States Class A and Class B Common stock KILT of MA Inc previously Mini Coach of Boston Inc United States Common stock KILT of RI Inc previously Bonanza Bus Lines United States Common stock Kingston Upon Hull City Transport Limited England Ordinary shares Lakefront Lines Inc United States Common stock Landylines Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Group plc | page 95 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 17 Subsidiary and related undertakings continued Company Country of registration Class of shares other interest Leisure Time Tours United States Common stock Lenzner Tours Inc United States Common stock Lenzner Tours, Ltd United States Partnership interest Lenzner Transit Inc United States Common stock Lenzner Transportation Group Incorporated United States Common stock LER Transportation Company United States Common stock Liberty Bell Taxi Company Inc United States Common stock Limousine Rental Service Inc United States Common stock Lincoln City Transport Limited England Ordinary shares Lincolnshire Road Car Company Limited England Ordinary shares M&J Bus Company United States Common stock Massachusetts Bay Transportation Services LLC United States LLC Units Meadowlands Transit Inc United States Common stock Megabus Acquisition LLC United States LLC Units Megabus Northeast LLC United States LLC Units Megabus Philadelphia LLC United States LLC Units Megabus Southeast LLC United States LLC Units Megabus Southwest LLC United States LLC Units Megabus USA LLC United States LLC Units Megabus West LLC United States LLC Units Megabus.
com BVBA Belgium Ordinary shares Megabus.
com Europe Limited England Ordinary shares Megabus.
com GmbH Germany Ordinary shares Megabus.
com SAS France Ordinary shares Megabus.
com SRL Italy Ordinary shares Megabus.
com UK Limited England Ordinary shares Megacity Limited 35% Scotland Ordinary shares Midland Red South Limited England Ordinary shares Midtown Bus Terminal New York Inc United States Common stock Minsol Bus Company Inc United States Common stock Mister Sparkle Inc United States Common stock Mountaineer Coach Inc United States Common stock National Transport Tokens Limited England Ordinary shares New Delaware Coach Inc United States Common stock New York Splash Tours LLC United States LLC Units Niagara Scenic Bus Lines Inc United States Common stock Nicecon Limited 50% Scotland Ordinary shares North Shore Dispatch Inc United States Common stock NYCS LLC 50% United States LLC Units Olympia Trails Bus Company Inc United States Common stock Orange, Newark, Elizabeth Bus Inc United States Common stock P. Phythian and Son Limited England Ordinary shares Pacific Coast Sightseeing Tours and Charters Inc United States Common stock Paramus Northeast Management Company LLC United States LLC Units Parfitts Motor Services Limited England Ordinary shares PCSTC Inc United States Common stock Penn-Mall Transit Inc United States Common stock Pennsylvania Transportation Systems Inc United States Common stock Perfect Body Inc United States Common stock Phantom Cab Company Inc United States Common stock Powder River Transportation Services Inc United States Common stock Precis 1628 Limited England Ordinary shares PSV Claims Bureau Limited England Ordinary shares PTI South East Limited 20% England Ordinary shares R&W Inc United States Common stock R&W Transit Inc United States Common stock Red and Tan Charter Inc United States Common stock Red and Tan Enterprises Inc United States Common stock Red and Tan Tours Inc United States Common stock Red and Tan Transportation Systems Inc United States Common stock Red and Tan Unlimited Inc United States Common stock Red and White Services Limited England Ordinary shares Rhondda Buses Limited England Ordinary shares page 96 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 97 Note 17 Subsidiary and related undertakings continued Company Country of registration Class of shares other interest Rhondda Valley Buses Limited England Ordinary shares Ribble Motor Services Limited England Ordinary shares Road Runner Tours Inc United States Common stock Rockland Coaches Inc United States Common stock Rockland Transit Corporation United States Common stock Route 17 North Realty LLC United States LLC Units RTI Stagecoach Limited England Ordinary-A shares, Ordinary-B shares and Preference shares Sam Van Galder Inc United States A and B Common stock Schoolbus Limited Scotland Ordinary shares SCOTO Limited England Ordinary shares SCOTO US Subsidiary Limited LLC United States LLC Units Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited 35% Scotland Ordinary shares SCUSI Limited England Ordinary, A and B shares SCUSI US Subsidiary Limited LLC United States LLC Units Seven Bus Corporation United States Common stock SGP Group Finance Sarl Luxembourg Ordinary shares Sharpton Limited England Ordinary shares SHM Transit Inc United States Common stock Short Line Terminal Agency Inc United States Common stock and preferred stock Sightseeing Buses SL 24.5% Spain Ordinary shares Skipburn Limited Canada Ordinary shares SL Capital Corporation United States Class A voting and Class B non-voting shares South East London and Kent Bus Company Limited England Ordinary shares South Orange Avenue Bus Association Inc United States Common stock South Orange Avenue Bus Company United States Common stock South West Trains Limited England Ordinary shares South Yorkshire Supertram Limited England Ordinary shares South Yorkshire Supertram Operating Company Limited England Ordinary shares Southdown Motor Services Limited England Ordinary shares Sporran AWC Inc United States Common stock Sporran FL Inc United States Common stock Sporran GBL Inc United States Common stock Sporran GCBS Inc United States Common stock Sporran GCTC Inc United States Common stock Sporran GLS Inc United States Common stock Sporran TI Inc United States Common stock Stagecoach North West Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach South Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Bus Holdings Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Stagecoach Cheetah Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Devon Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Glasgow Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Stagecoach Holdings Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Stage-coach International Services Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Stagecoach London Midland Trains Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach QUEST Trustee Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Stagecoach Rail Holdings Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Stagecoach Rail North America LLC United States LLC units Stagecoach Rail Passenger Services LLC United States LLC units Stagecoach Rail Projects Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Rail Replacement East Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Rail Replacement South Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Rail Replacement Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Scotland Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Stagecoach Services Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach South West Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach South Western Trains Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach SWT Oldco Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Supertram Maintenance Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Technology Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Stagecoach Thameslink Trains Limited England Ordinary shares Stagecoach Group plc | page 97 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 17 Subsidiary and related undertakings continued Company Country of registration Class of shares other interest Stagecoach Transport Holdings Limited Scotland Ordinary shares Suburban Management Corporation United States Common stock Suburban Trails Inc United States Common stock Suburban Transit Corporation United States Common stock SuperCAM Limited England A and B shares Superior Bus Company United States Common stock Swindon and District Bus Company Limited England Ordinary shares Syracuse and Oswego Coach Lines Inc United States Common stock Tanport Limited England Ordinary shares Tees Valley Limited England Ordinary and A-Ordinary shares Thames Transit Limited England Ordinary shares The Barnsley and District Traction Company Limited England Ordinary shares The Bus Exchange Inc United States Common stock The Hudson Bus Transportation Company United States Common stock The Mexborough and Swinton Traction Company Limited England Ordinary shares The Valleys Bus Company Limited England Ordinary shares The Viscount Bus and Coach Company Limited England Ordinary shares The Yorkshire Traction Company Trustee Limited England Ordinary shares The Yorkshire Traction Company Limited England Ordinary shares Trans Maintenance Inc United States Common stock Trans-Hudson Express Inc United States Common stock Transit Advertising Limited England Ordinary shares Transportation Management Services Inc United States Common stock Trentway-Wagar Properties Inc Canada Class A and class B Common shares Trentway-Wagar Inc Canada Common stock and first preference shares Tri State Coach Lines, Inc United States Common stock TRT Transportation Inc United States Common stock Twenty-Four Corporation United States Common stock Twin America LLC 50% United States LLC Units Tyburn Limited United States Common stock Tyne and Wear Omnibus Company Limited England Ordinary shares United Counties Omnibus Limited England Ordinary shares Vailsburg Bus Company United States Common stock Van Nortwick Bros Inc United States Common stock Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited 49% England B shares Virgin Rail Group Limited 49% England Ordinary and Preference shares Virgin Rail Projects Limited 49% England Ordinary shares Virgin Trains Sales Limited 49% England Ordinary shares Virgin Trains Limited 49% England Ordinary shares Welcome Passenger Transport Limited England Ordinary shares West Coast Trains Limited 49% England Ordinary shares West Sussex Buses Limited England Ordinary shares Western Buses Limited England Ordinary shares Whites World Travel Limited England Ordinary shares Wisconsin Coach Lines Inc United States Common stock WJB Bus Company Inc United States Common stock Wohlgemuth Bus Company United States Common stock XYZ-JP Taxi Inc United States Common stock XYZ-PBT Inc United States Common stock Yellow Cab Leasing Company of San Diego United States Common stock Yellow Cab of San Diego Inc United States Common stock Yellow Cab Service Corporation United States Common stock Yorkshire Terrier Limited England Ordinary shares Companies are directly held by Stagecoach Group plc All subsidiary undertakings are included in these consolidated financial statements.
page 98 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 99 Note 17 Subsidiary and related undertakings continued Asset purchase and non-controlling interests The UK Department for Transport awarded the Virgin Trains East Coast rail franchise to the Group during the year ended 30 April 2015.
In connection with that award, a subsidiary company, Inter City Railways Limited, purchased all of the equity in East Coast Main Line Company Limited, the train operating company that now operates inter-city train services in the UK under the Virgin Trains East Coast rail franchise.
East Coast Main Line Company Limited held certain assets and liabilities at the date of purchase.
However, it did not constitute a business and so the purchase was accounted for by the Group as an asset purchase rather than as a business combination.
The purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by the Group based on their fair values.
The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net liabilities assumed was recognised as an intangible asset, being the cost of the right to operate the franchise.
Inter City Railways Limited is the one subsidiary in which a third party has a material non-controlling interest.
The Group holds 90% of the equity and voting rights in Inter City Railways Limited.
Both Inter City Railways Limited and East Coast Main Line Company Limited are incorporated in the UK.
The Virgin Group of companies holds the other 10% of the equity and voting rights of Inter City Railways Limited and may also receive a royalty fee from East Coast Main Line Company Limited that varies depending on the revenue and profit of that company.
The Group has contractual arrangements with the Virgin Group in respect of the business.
However, the Group may appoint a majority of the directors of Inter City Railways Limited and appoint the executive management of East Coast Main Line Company Limited.
Also, the Group is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, the Managing Director of the business reports directly to the Group Chief Executive and so the Group has the power to direct the activities of the entity.
The Group therefore accounts for Inter City Railways Limited and East Coast Main Line Company Limited as subsidiaries.
The profit for the year ended 30 April 2016 allocated to the non-controlling interest is shown on the consolidated income statement.
The accumulated non-controlling interest as at 30 April 2016 is shown on the consolidated balance sheet and the movement in that interest in the year including any dividends paid to non-controlling interests is shown in the consolidated statement of movements in equity.
At least 75% of the distributable profit of Inter City Railways Limited should be distributed to its shareholders within four months of each financial year-end subject to retaining sufficient cash to meet any obligations under rail franchise agreements.
Both shareholders in Inter City Railways Limited need to agree to any changes to or deviations from that dividend policy.
Under the terms of its rail franchise agreement, East Coast Main Line Company Limited may only pay dividends and or repay loans from other Group companies to the extent it remains compliant with certain financial ratios specified in the franchise agreement.
This could restrict it from making distributions or repaying loans that would be otherwise permitted by company law.
East Coast Main Line Company Limited is also prohibited from loaning money to other Group companies without the prior consent of the UK Department for Transport.
Such restrictions on dividends and loans generally apply to all entities operating train services under UK rail franchise agreements, including two of Stagecoach Groups other subsidiaries, Stagecoach South Western Trains Limited and East Midlands Trains Limited.
The Group may be required to loan further amounts to East Coast Main Line Company Limited pursuant to the committed loan facilities shown in note 31 iii.
The consolidated balance sheet of Inter City Railways Limited as at 30 April 2016 and its financial performance for the year ended 30 April 2016 are summarised below.
The amounts shown below are determined in accordance with the Groups accounting policies before inter-company eliminations.
2016 2015 m m Non-current assets 78.6 80.8 Current assets 193.6 129.8 Current liabilities 175.4 138.5 Non-current liabilities 78.4 63.0 Net assets 18.4 9.1 Revenue 730.4 118.0 Expenses 704.9 114.5 Operating profit 25.5 3.5 Management recharge 0.2 Intangible asset expenses 9.2 1.5 Restructuring costs 0.8 Finance costs net 1.0 0.1 Taxation 2.7 0.4 profit after tax 11.6 1.5 Other comprehensive expense 2.4 5.7 Total comprehensive income expense 9.2 4.2 Stagecoach Group plc | page 99 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 18Inventories Inventories were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Parts and consumables 27.5 26.9 All inventories are carried at cost less a provision to take account of slow moving and obsolete items.
Changes in the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories were as follows: 2016 2015 m m At beginning of year 3.8 2.3 Charged to income statement 0.3 1.8 Amount utilised 0.2 0.3 At end of year 3.9 3.8 Note 19Trade and other receivables 2016 2015 Trade and other receivables were as follows: m m Non-current: Prepayments 5.4 11.9 Other receivables 0.2 0.2 5.6 12.1 Current: Trade receivables 237.1 204.7 Less: provision for impairment 2.5 2.8 Trade receivables net 234.6 201.9 Other receivables 30.8 22.0 Loans to joint ventures 5.9 Prepayments 44.2 54.6 Accrued income 38.5 50.9 VAT and other government receivables 34.1 39.9 382.2 375.2 The movements in the provision for impairment of current trade receivables were as follows: 2016 2015 m m At beginning of year 2.8 2.1 Impairment losses in year charged to income statement 0.7 1.0 Reversal of impairment losses credited to income statement 0.3 0.1 Amounts utilised 0.7 0.2 At end of year 2.5 2.8 Further information on credit risk is provided in note 26. page 100 | Stagecoach Group plc 2016 2015 m m 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 101 Note 20Cash and cash equivalents 2016 2015 m m Cash at bank and in hand 382.3 395.6 The cash amounts shown above include 15.0m on 12 month deposit maturing by March 2017, 50.0m on 6 month deposit maturing by October 2016, 35.0m on 6 month deposit maturing by September 2016, 10.0m on 6 month deposit maturing by August 2016, 27.0m on 3 month deposit maturing by June 2016, 10.0m on 3 month deposit maturing by May 2016 and 10.0m on 2 month deposit maturing by June 2016.
2015: 10.0m on 9 month deposit maturing by August 2015, 15.0m on 6 month deposit maturing by August 2015, 15.0m on 6 month deposit maturing by September 2015, 15.0m on 3 month deposit maturing by May 2015, 22.0m on 3 month deposit maturing by June 2015, 40.0m on 1 month deposit maturing by May 2015 and 25.0m on 1 week deposit maturing by May 2015.
The remaining amounts are accessible to the Group within one day 2015: one day.
The deposits with an original maturity in excess of 3 months are held within train operating companies.
They relate to cash balances that are not available to be loaned or distributed to other members of the Group see note 31 iii but are not expected to be required by the train operating companies during the deposit period.
The deposits can be accessed prior to the end of the deposit period without incurring material break costs.
The Group has a bank offset arrangement whereby the Company and several of its subsidiaries each have bank accounts with the same bank, which are subject to rights of offset.
The cash at bank and in hand of 382.3m 2015: 395.6m above included the net balance on these offset accounts of 43.2m 2015: 49.4m, which comprised 152.8m 2015: 309.8m of positive bank balances less 109.6m 2015: 260.4m of bank overdrafts.
Note 21Trade and other payables Trade and other payables were as follows: Current Trade payables 270.3 229.6 Accruals 381.8 436.4 Deferred income 114.4 122.9 Cash-settled share based payment liability 0.6 1.3 Deferred grant income 20.6 6.2 Loans from joint ventures 1.7 1.7 Loan from non-controlling interest 5.3 3.5 PAYE and NIC payable 30.4 28.5 VAT and other government payables 0.1 0.3 825.2 830.4 Non-current Accruals 6.0 1.0 Deferred grant income 18.7 14.9 Cash-settled share based payment liability 0.5 1.2 PAYEand NIC payable 0.3 0.5 Other payables 0.5 Deferred income 20.0 21.9 45.5 40.0 Stagecoach Group plc | page 101 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 22Borrowings a Repayment profile 2016 2015 Borrowings are repayable as follows: m m On demand or within 1 year Loan notes 19.3 19.5 Hire purchase and lease obligations 34.3 32.1 53.6 51.6 Within 1-2 years Hire purchase and lease obligations 18.8 30.8 Sterling 5.75% Notes 408.5 18.8 439.3 Within 2-5 years Bank loans 189.6 172.1 Hire purchase and lease obligations 23.7 25.1 213.3 197.2 Over 5 years Sterling 4.00% Notes 403.8 USDollar 4.36% Notes 102.3 97.2 506.1 97.2 Total borrowings 791.8 785.3 Less current maturities 53.6 51.6 Non-current portion of borrowings 738.2 733.7 Interest terms on UK hire purchase and lease obligations are at annual rates between 0.40% and 1.90% 2015: 0.40% and 1.90% over bank base rate or equivalent LIBOR rates, subject to certain minimum rates.
Interest terms on overseas lease obligations are at fixed rates, which at 30 April 2016 averaged 2.0% per annum 2015: 2.3%.
Interest terms on bank loans are at LIBOR plus margins ranging from 0.40% to 1.10% 2015: 0.40% to 1.10%.
Interest on loan notes are at three months LIBOR.
Loan notes amounting to 19.3m 2015: 19.5m are backed by guarantees provided under Group banking facilities.
The loan notes have been classified by reference to the earliest date on which the loan note holders can request redemptions.
Bank loans, Sterling Notes and USDollar Notes are unsecured.
The minimum lease payments under hire purchase and lease obligations fall due as follows: 2016 2015 m m Not later than one year 35.7 33.6 Later than one year but not more than five years 43.7 57.2 79.4 90.8 Future finance costs on hire purchase and finance leases 2.6 2.8 Carrying value of hire purchase and finance lease liabilities 76.8 88.0 For variable-rate hire purchase arrangements, the future finance costs included in the above table are based on the interest rates applying at the balance sheet date.
The Group in its ordinary course of business enters into hire purchase and finance lease agreements to fund or refinance the purchase of vehicles.
All of the hire purchase and lease obligations shown above are in respect of vehicles.
The lease agreements are typically for periods of 5 to 10 years and do not have contingent rent or escalation clauses.
The agreements have industry standard terms and do not contain any restrictions on dividends, additional debt or further leasing.
b Sterling 5.75% Notes On 16 December 2009, the Group issued 400m of 5.75% Notes.
Interest on the Notes was paid annually in arrears and all remaining Notes were redeemed in October 2015.
The consolidated carrying value of the Notes at 30 April 2016 was therefore Nil 2015: 408.5m after taking account of accrued interest, the discount on issue and issue costs.
c Sterling 4.00% Notes On 29 September 2015, the Group issued 400m of 4.00% Notes.
Interest is paid annually in arrears and the Notes are due to be redeemed at their principal amount on 29 September 2025.
The Notes were issued at 98.979% of their principal amount.
The consolidated carrying value of the Notes at 30 April 2016 was 403.8m 2015: Nil after taking account of accrued interest, the discount on issue, issue costs and the effect of fair value hedges.
d USDollar 4.36% Notes On 18 October 2012, the Group issued US$150m of 4.36% Notes as a private placement.
Interest on the Notes is paid semi-annually in arrears and all remaining Notes are due to be redeemed at their principal amount on 18 October 2022.
The consolidated carrying value of the Notes at 30 April 2016 was 102.3m 2015: 97.2m after taking account of accrued interest, issue costs and the effect of fair value hedges.
page 102 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 103 Note 23Deferred tax The Group movement in deferred tax during the year was as follows: 2016 2015 m m Due after more than one year: At beginning of year 25.1 34.0 Credited charged to income statement 13.6 6.3 Charged credited to equity 13.3 16.0 Foreign exchange movements 0.8 0.8 At end of year 25.6 25.1 Deferred taxation is calculated as follows: 2016 2015 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net m m m m m m Accelerated capital allowances 99.3 99.3 115.2 115.2 Pension temporary differences 21.0 21.0 35.3 35.3 Short-term temporary differences 52.7 52.7 54.8 54.8 73.7 99.3 25.6 90.1 115.2 25.1 The amount of deferred tax recognised in the income statement by type of temporary difference is as follows: 2016 2015 m m Accelerated capital allowances 20.1 8.1 Pension temporary differences 1.7 0.2 Short-term temporary differences 8.2 1.6 13.6 6.3 Note 24 provisions The movements in provisions were as follows: Token redemption Insurance Environmental Redundancy Onerous provision provisions provisions provision contracts Total m m m m m m Beginning of year 5.9 150.7 4.6 0.5 9.1 170.8 Provided during year after discounting 49.2 1.4 1.5 52.1 Unused amounts credited to income statement 2.4 2.4 Unwinding of discount 3.8 0.1 3.9 Utilised in the year 57.2 0.6 1.7 6.1 65.6 Arising on sale of tokens during year 0.3 0.3 Redemption of tokens 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange movements 2.1 0.1 2.2 End of year 3.3 148.6 4.1 0.2 4.6 160.8 30 April 2016: Current 0.7 49.5 1.2 0.2 3.3 54.9 Non-current 2.6 99.1 2.9 1.3 105.9 3.3 148.6 4.1 0.2 4.6 160.8 30 April 2015: Current 1.2 55.2 1.3 0.5 6.5 64.7 Non-current 4.7 95.5 3.3 2.6 106.1 5.9 150.7 4.6 0.5 9.1 170.8 The token redemption provision relates to tokens issued to third parties to be redeemed as payment for transportation services.
Tokens are typically redeemed within five years of issue.
The insurance provisions relate to insurance reserves on incurred accidents up to 30 April in each year where claims have not been settled.
These are based on actuarial reviews and prior claims history.
Claims are typically settled within five years of origination.
The environmental provisions relate to legal or constructive obligations to undertake environmental work, such as an obligation to rectify land which has been contaminated by fuel or to eliminate the presence of asbestos.
The provision is based on the estimated cost of undertaking the work required, and is expected to be utilised over the next five years.
The redundancy provision relates to planned redundancies and is expected to be utilised within one year.
Provisions for onerous contracts relate to contracts where the costs of fulfilling the contract outweigh the economic benefits to be received, which includes contracts that have been acquired through business combinations that have been identified as being on unfavourable terms at the relevant acquisition date.
The provisions are expected to be fully utilised within three years.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 103 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 25Retirement benefits a Description of retirement benefit arrangements United Kingdom funded schemes The Group participates in a number of funded defined benefit schemes in the UK as follows.
Date as at which last scheme valuation was prepared Stagecoach Group Pension Schemes SPS : 30 April 2014 The South West Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : 31 December 2013 The Island Line section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : 31 December 2013 The East Midlands Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : 31 December 2013 The East Coast Main Line section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : and 31 December 2013 A number of UK Local Government Pension Schemes LGPS.
31 March 2013 During the year ended 30 April 2016, the East London and Selkent Pension Scheme was merged with the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme.
A separate East London and Selkent section of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme is now maintained.
The Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme and the Local Government Pension Schemes are closed to new members from the Group.
All relevant sections of the Railways Pension Schemes are open to new members.
For the defined benefit schemes, benefits are related to length of service and pensionable salary.
Pensionable salary for the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme is subject to capped increases.
The weighted average duration as at 30 April 2016 of the expected benefit payments across all UK defined benefit schemes is estimated at 20.0 years 2015: 20.0 years.
The Directors believe that separate consideration should be given to RPS as the Group has no rights or obligations in respect of the relevant sections of the scheme following expiry of the related franchises.
In addition, under the terms of RPS, any fund deficit or surplus is shared by the employer 60% and the employees 40% in accordance with the shared cost nature of RPS.
The employees share of the deficit or surplus is reflected as an adjustment to RPS liabilities or assets.
Therefore the liability or asset recognised for the relevant sections of RPS reflects only that part of the net deficit or surplus of each section that the employer is expected to fund or expected to recover over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
The adjusting entry referred to as the franchise adjustment represents that proportion of the deficit or surplus that is expected to exist at the end of the franchise and which the Group would not be obliged to fund or entitled to recover.
The Group is a participating employer in a number of UK Local Government Pension Schemes, and has limited influence over the operations of these schemes.
Active membership of these schemes is small and represents 1.1% 2015: 2.3% of the pensions charge in the consolidated income statement, but historic liabilities mean that these schemes represent around 8.9% 2015: 8.9% of the gross present value of pension obligations as at 30 April 2016 shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Group liaises with the administering authorities to seek to set contributions at appropriate levels to fund the benefits and deficit recovery payments over a reasonable period of time.
There is no right for the Group to receive any surplus in the schemes, although there is an obligation on the Group to fully fund the benefits.
To reflect this, the Group only recognises existing surpluses relating to these schemes, to the extent that these surpluses could be recouped through the reduction of future contributions.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes covering UK employees, for which the Group has no further payment obligation once the contributions are paid other than lump-sum death in service benefits that are provided for certain UK employees.
North America funded schemes The Group participates in two small funded defined benefit schemes in North America, both of which are closed to new members.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes which are open to eligible North American employees, for which the Group has no further payment obligation once the contributions are paid.
Unfunded schemes The Group makes contributions to an unapproved employer-financed retirement benefit scheme EFRBS in the UK and a non qualifying defined contribution scheme NQDC in the US.
In each case, the liabilities of these schemes are unfunded but the Group has set aside assets to meet its obligations under the schemes.
In the case of the EFRBS, the scheme holds a guarantee over the assets which the Group has set aside.
The Group considers that the assets set aside are in substance pensions assets and so the amounts of those assets are included within the net pension amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheet.
The carrying value of those assets as at 30 April 2016 was 4.7m 2015: 5.2m.
Other unfunded benefits are provided to a small number of former employees with the net liabilities included within the unfunded balance reported in the tables that follow.
page 104 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 105 Note 25Retirement benefits continued b principal actuarial assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining the pensions amounts as at 30 April 2016 and 30 April 2015 are shown below: 2016 2015 Discount rate 3.7% 3.7% Retail Prices inflation assumption 3.0% 3.2% Consumer Prices inflation assumption 1.7% 1.9% Rate of increase in pensionable salaries SPS 2.0% 2.0% Others 2.2% 3.2% Rate of increase of pensions in payment SPS 2.9% 3.1% Others 1.7% 1.9% Post-retirement mortality life expectancies in years Current pensioners at 65 male 19.4 19.3 Current pensioners at 65 female 23.7 23.6 Future pensioners at 65 aged 45 now male 21.5 21.4 Future pensioners at 65 aged 45 now female 25.6 25.5 The assumptions shown above are chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the long-term nature of the schemes, may not be borne out in practice.
The discount rate assumption is not determined using a cash-weighted method and is based on market yields on high quality corporate bonds at the year end, adjusted to reflect the duration of the schemes liabilities.
The post-retirement mortality assumptions have been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted to reflect the experience of the Group and its sector and allow for expected increases in longevity.
c pension amounts recognised in the balance sheet The consolidated balance sheet shows retirement benefit assets of 24.8m 2015: 25.5m and retirement benefit obligations of 121.5m 2015: 186.0m, resulting in the net liability of 96.7m 2015: 160.5m analysed below.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: Funded schemes As at 30 April 2016 SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded schemes Total m m m m m m Equities 786.8 221.2 4.1 1,012.1 Private Equity 48.7 151.3 200.0 Infrastructure 55.0 55.0 Growth Pooled Fund 1,204.6 1,204.6 Bonds 255.3 49.3 0.7 305.3 Cash 48.8 3.0 42.1 0.9 94.8 Property 116.7 20.2 136.9 Fair value of scheme assets 1,256.3 1,413.9 332.8 5.7 3,008.7 Present value of obligations 1,366.5 1,691.7 299.2 8.5 3.8 3,369.7 adjustment for members share of RPS deficit 40% 111.1 111.1 franchise adjustment 191.1 191.1 Deficit Surplus in the scheme 110.2 24.4 33.6 2.8 3.8 58.8 Asset ceiling 37.9 37.9 Pension liability asset before tax 110.2 24.4 4.3 2.8 3.8 96.7 Stagecoach Group plc | page 105 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 25Retirement benefits continued c pension amounts recognised in the balance sheet continued As at 30 April 2015 Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded schemes Total m m m m m m Equities 687.8 225.0 3.9 916.7 Private Equity 46.5 148.5 195.0 Infrastructure 56.1 56.1 Growth Pooled Fund 1,127.7 1,127.7 Bonds 364.8 49.7 1.2 415.7 Cash 100.2 6.3 42.6 0.9 150.0 Property 60.2 20.5 0.2 80.9 Fair value of scheme assets 1,259.5 1,338.6 337.8 6.2 2,942.1 Present value of obligations 1,431.2 1,793.6 314.7 8.8 4.0 3,552.3 adjustment for members share of RPS deficit 40% 182.0 182.0 franchise adjustment 297.4 297.4 Deficit Surplus in the scheme 171.7 24.4 23.1 2.6 4.0 130.8 Asset ceiling 29.7 29.7 Pension liability asset before tax 171.7 24.4 6.6 2.6 4.0 160.5 The Growth Pooled Fund is the principal investment vehicle for the Groups sections of the RPS.
This fund is a multi-asset fund, tactically adjusted by the RPS Investment team.
d Funding arrangements and schemes The schemes investment approach, which aims to meet their liabilities as they fall due, is to invest the majority of the schemes assets in a mix of equities and other return-seeking assets in order to strike a balance between: maximising the returns on the schemes assets, and minimising the risks associated with lower than expected returns on the schemes assets.
Trustees are required to regularly review investment strategy in light of the term and nature of the schemes liabilities.
The regulatory framework in the UK requires the Trustees of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme and the Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and then to agree upon the contributions necessary to fund the benefits, including any deficit recovery amounts, over a reasonable period of time.
A Pensions Oversight Committee has been established comprising the Finance Director, a Non-Executive Director and other senior executives, to oversee the Groups overall pensions strategy.
The Board participates in major decisions on the funding and design of pension schemes.
There is a risk to the Group that adverse experience could lead to a requirement for the Group to make additional contributions to fund deficits.
The defined benefit pension schemes typically expose the Group to actuarial funding risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, and longevity life expectancy risk.
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of regular valuations using the projected unit method.
The actuarial valuation for the East London and Selkent Pension Scheme was completed last year, and showed that as at 5 April 2013, the scheme was 100% funded on the Trustees technical provisions basis.
Actuarial valuations were completed for the Local Government Pension Schemes, showing that the schemes were underfunded on the technical provisions basis as at 31 March 2013 with deficit contributions payable.
The actuarial valuation for the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme as at 30 April 2014 was finalised during the year, and showed that as at 30 April 2014, the scheme was 111% funded on the Trustees technical provisions basis.
The Group forecasts to contribute 69.6m forecast at 30 April 2015 for year ended 30 April 2016: 73.4m to its defined benefit schemes in the financial year ending 30 April 2017. e Changes in net retirement benefit obligations The change in net liabilities recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit schemes is comprised as follows: Year ended 30 April 2016 Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total schemes m m m m m m At beginning of year liability asset 171.7 24.4 6.6 2.6 4.0 160.5 Rail franchise changes 5.3 5.3 Expense charged to consolidated income statement 27.1 57.1 1.2 1.0 0.1 86.5 Recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 70.3 1.6 3.5 0.1 68.5 Employers contributions and settlements 18.3 50.2 7.0 0.7 0.3 76.5 At end of year liability asset 110.2 24.4 4.3 2.8 3.8 96.7 Year ended 30 April 2015 Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total schemes m m m m m m At beginning of year liability asset 92.6 6.3 23.6 2.0 3.9 115.8 Rail franchise changes 24.5 24.5 Expense charged to consolidated income statement 24.1 38.1 1.9 0.9 0.2 65.2 Recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 74.3 3.2 12.4 0.2 0.2 65.5 Employers contributions 19.3 34.9 6.5 0.5 0.3 61.5 At end of year liability asset 171.7 24.4 6.6 2.6 4.0 160.5 page 106 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 107 Note 25Retirement benefits continued f Sensitivity of retirement benefit obligations to changes in assumptions The measurement of the defined benefit obligation is particularly sensitive to changes in key assumptions as described below: The discount rate has been selected following actuarial advice and taking into account the duration of the liabilities.
A 10 basis points increase in the discount rate would result in a 18.7m decrease in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 20.3m.
A 10 basis points decrease in the discount rate would result in a 18.9m increase in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 20.6m.
The inflation assumption adopted is consistent with the discount rate used.
It is used to set the assumptions for pension increases, pensionable salary increases and deferred revaluations.
A 10 basis points increase in the inflation rate would result in a 11.6m increase in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 11.4m.
A 10 basis points decrease in the inflation rate would result in a 11.5m decrease in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 11.4m.
A 10 basis point increase in the rate of increase in pensionable salaries would result in a 1.7m increase in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 1.2m.
A 10 basis point decrease in the rate of increase in pensionable salaries would result in a 1.7m decrease in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 1.3m.
A 10 basis point increase in the rate of increase of pensions in payment would result in a 8.2m increase in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 7.1m.
A 10 basis point decrease in the rate of increase of pensions in payment would result in a 8.2m decrease in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 7.1m.
The longevity assumptions adopted are a best estimate of the mortality of scheme members both during and after employment, and are based on the most recent mortality data available from actuarial valuations.
If life expectancy of the relevant individuals was to increase by one year, this would result in an increase of 42.4m in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 36.2m.
If life expectancy of the relevant individuals was to decrease by one year, this would result in a decrease of 43.9m in the net pension liabilities as at 30 April 2016 2015: 36.2m.
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the net liability in isolation, and assuming no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
In practice, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement in the value of the invested assets held by the schemes.
g pension amounts recognised in income statement The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement are analysed as follows: Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total and DC Schemes Year ended 30 April 2016 m m m m m m Current service cost 20.4 57.3 1.1 0.9 79.7 Administration costs 0.9 0.6 1.5 Defined contribution costs 20.2 20.2 Included in operating profit 21.3 57.9 1.1 0.9 20.2 101.4 Net interest expense income 5.8 10.0 1.0 0.1 0.1 15.0 Interest expense on asset ceiling 1.1 1.1 Unwinding of franchise adjustment 10.8 10.8 27.1 57.1 1.2 1.0 20.3 106.7 Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total and DC Schemes Year ended 30 April 2015 m m m m m m Current service cost 19.0 39.4 1.3 0.8 60.5 Administration costs 1.0 0.4 1.4 Defined contribution costs 19.0 19.0 Included in operating profit 20.0 39.8 1.3 0.8 19.0 80.9 Net interest expense income 4.1 8.4 0.3 0.1 0.2 12.5 Interest expense on asset ceiling 0.9 0.9 Unwinding of franchise adjustment 10.1 10.1 24.1 38.1 1.9 0.9 19.2 84.2 Current service costs and administration costs are recognised in operating costs and net interest on net pension liability and unwinding of franchise adjustment are recognised in net finance costs.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 107 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 25Retirement benefits continued h pension amounts recognised in statement of comprehensive income The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are analysed as follows: Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Schemes Year ended 30 April 2016 m m m m m m Actual return on scheme assets lower higher than the discount rate 13.2 42.7 10.8 0.2 18.5 Changes in financial assumptions 37.3 241.7 13.8 0.1 292.9 Changes in demographic assumptions 24.4 0.9 25.3 Experience on benefit obligations 21.8 136.6 0.3 0.2 114.9 Changes in asset ceiling net of interest 7.1 7.1 Change in franchise adjustment 146.2 146.2 70.3 1.6 3.5 0.1 68.5 Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Schemes Year ended 30 April 2015 m m m m m m Actual return on scheme assets higher than the discount rate 79.9 117.2 25.0 0.1 222.2 Changes in financial assumptions 153.3 36.0 14.6 0.3 0.1 204.3 Experience on benefit obligations 0.9 14.9 11.0 0.1 4.9 Changes in asset ceiling net of interest 9.0 9.0 Change in franchise adjustment 69.5 69.5 74.3 3.2 12.4 0.2 0.2 65.5 i Benefit obligations Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations net of franchise adjustments and members share of RPS deficit are analysed as follows.
Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Schemes Year ended 30 April 2016 m m m m m m At beginning of year 1,431.2 1,314.2 314.7 8.8 4.0 3,072.9 Rail franchise changes 5.3 5.3 Current service cost 20.4 57.3 1.1 0.9 79.7 Interest on benefit obligations 51.7 40.0 11.4 0.4 0.1 103.6 Unwinding of franchise adjustment 10.8 10.8 Benefits paid 54.1 53.9 13.9 1.7 0.3 123.9 Contributions by employees 0.8 6.9 0.3 0.2 8.2 Actuarial losses gains due to: Changes in demographic assumptions 24.4 0.9 25.3 Changes in financial assumptions 37.3 241.7 13.8 0.1 292.9 Experience on benefit obligations 21.8 136.6 0.3 0.2 114.9 Change in franchise adjustment 146.2 146.2 Foreign exchange movements 0.2 0.2 At end of year 1,366.5 1,389.5 299.2 8.5 3.8 3,067.5 Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Schemes Year ended 30 April 2015 m m m m m m At beginning of year 1,248.2 789.5 309.6 7.0 3.9 2,358.2 Rail franchise changes 374.4 374.4 Current service cost 19.0 39.4 1.3 0.8 60.5 Interest on benefit obligations 55.6 31.6 13.3 0.3 0.2 101.0 Unwinding of franchise adjustment 10.1 10.1 Benefits paid 46.8 36.6 13.5 0.5 0.3 97.7 Contributions by employees 1.0 5.6 0.4 0.6 7.6 Actuarial losses gains due to: Changes in financial assumptions 153.3 36.0 14.6 0.3 0.1 204.3 Experience on benefit obligations 0.9 14.9 11.0 0.1 4.9 Change in franchise adjustment 69.5 69.5 Foreign exchange movements 0.3 0.3 At end of year 1,431.2 1,314.2 314.7 8.8 4.0 3,072.9 page 108 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 109 Note 25Retirement benefits continued j Scheme assets The movement in the fair value of scheme assets was as follows: Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Schemes Year ended 30 April 2016 m m m m m m At beginning of year 1,259.5 1,338.6 337.8 6.2 2,942.1 Administration costs 0.9 0.6 1.5 Interest income 45.9 30.0 12.4 0.3 88.6 Employer contributions 18.3 50.2 7.0 0.7 0.3 76.5 Contributions by employees 0.8 6.9 0.3 0.2 8.2 Benefits paid 54.1 53.9 13.9 1.7 0.3 123.9 Remeasurements Return on assets excluding amounts included in net interest 13.2 42.7 10.8 0.2 18.5 Foreign exchange movements 0.2 0.2 At end of year 1,256.3 1,413.9 332.8 5.7 3,008.7 Funded schemes SPS RPS LGPS Other Unfunded Total Schemes Year ended 30 April 2015 m m m m m m At beginning of year 1,155.6 795.8 305.8 5.0 2,262.2 Rail franchise changes 398.9 398.9 Administration costs 1.0 0.4 1.4 Interest income 51.5 23.2 13.6 0.2 88.5 Employer contributions 19.3 34.9 6.5 0.5 0.3 61.5 Contributions by employees 1.0 5.6 0.4 0.6 7.6 Benefits paid 46.8 36.6 13.5 0.5 0.3 97.7 Remeasurements Return on assets excluding amounts included in net interest 79.9 117.2 25.0 0.1 222.2 Foreign exchange movements 0.3 0.3 At end of year 1,259.5 1,338.6 337.8 6.2 2,942.1 k Asset ceiling The movement in the asset ceiling is shown below: 2016 2015 m m At beginning of year 29.7 19.8 Interest expense 1.1 0.9 Remeasurements 7.1 9.0 At end of year 37.9 29.7 l Franchise adjustment The movement in the franchise adjustment is shown below: 2016 2015 m m At beginning of year 297.4 204.9 Rail franchise changes 29.1 151.9 Amounts recognised in income statement: Unwinding of franchise adjustment 10.8 10.1 Remeasurements: Change in franchise adjustment 146.2 69.5 At end of year 191.1 297.4 Stagecoach Group plc | page 109 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Financial instruments a Overview This note provides details of the Groups financial instruments.
Except where otherwise stated, the disclosures provided in this note exclude: Interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures accounted for in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard 10 IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and International Financial Reporting Standard 11 IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations.
Financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share based payment transactions.
Liabilities or assets that are not contractual such as income taxes that are created as a result of statutory requirements imposed by governments, prepayments, provisions and deferred income are not financial liabilities or financial assets.
Accordingly, prepayments, provisions, deferred income and amounts payable or receivable in respect of corporation tax, sales tax including UK Value Added Tax, payroll tax and other taxes are excluded from the disclosures provided in this note.
b Carrying values of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and their respective fair values were: 2016 2015 2016 2015 Other Carrying value Carrying value Fair value Fair value balance sheet notes m m m m Financial assets Loans and receivables Non-current assets Other receivables 19 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Current assets Accrued income 19 38.5 50.9 38.5 50.9 Trade receivables, net of impairment 19 234.6 201.9 234.6 201.9 Loans to joint ventures 19 5.9 5.9 Other receivables 19 30.8 22.0 30.8 22.0 Cash and cash equivalents 20 382.3 395.6 382.3 395.6 Total financial assets 686.4 676.5 686.4 676.5 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Non-current liabilities Accruals 21 6.0 1.0 6.0 1.0 Other payables 21 0.5 0.5 Borrowings 22 738.2 733.7 755.6 760.4 Current liabilities Trade payables 21 270.3 229.6 270.3 229.6 Accruals 21 381.8 436.4 381.8 436.4 Loans from joint ventures 21 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 Loan from non-controlling interest 21 5.3 3.5 5.3 3.5 Borrowings 22 53.6 51.6 53.6 51.6 Total financial liabilities 1,456.9 1,458.0 1,474.3 1,484.7 Net financial liabilities 770.5 781.5 787.9 808.2 Derivatives that are designated as effective hedging instruments are not shown in the above table.
Information on the carrying value of such derivatives is provided in note 26 g. The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities shown above are determined as follows: The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accrued income, trade receivables, loans to joint ventures and other receivables is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Given the short average time to maturity, no specific assumptions on discount rates have been made.
The effect of credit losses not already reflected in the carrying value as impairment losses is assumed to be immaterial.
The carrying value of trade payables, other payables, accruals, loan from non-controlling interest and loans from joint ventures is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Given the relatively short average time to maturity, no specific assumptions on discount rates have been made.
The fair value of fixed-rate notes included in borrowings that are quoted on a recognised stock exchange is determined with reference to the bid price as at the balance sheet date.
page 110 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 111 Note 26 Financial instruments continued b Carrying values of financial assets and financial liabilities continued The carrying value of fixed-rate notes that are not quoted on a recognised stock exchange and fixed-rate hire purchase and finance lease liabilities included in borrowings is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value taking account of the amounts involved in the context of total financial liabilities and the fixed interest rates relative to market interest rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of other borrowings on which interest is payable at floating rates is not considered to be materially different from the carrying value.
We do not consider that the fair value of financial instruments would change materially from that shown above as a result of any reasonable change to the assumptions made in determining the fair values shown above.
The fair value of financial instruments, and in particular the fixed rate notes, would be affected by changes in market interest rates.
Excluding the element hedged in a fair value hedge, we estimate that a 100 basis points reduction in market interest rates would increase the fair value of the fixed-rate notes liability by around 37.7m 2015: 12.1m.
Fair value estimation Financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value are disclosed by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value within the hierarchy at 30 April 2016.
Note Level 2 & Total m Assets Derivatives used for hedging 26 g 6.6 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging 26 g 60.8 The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value within the hierarchy at 30 April 2015.
Note Level 2 & Total m Assets Derivatives used for hedging 26 g 3.4 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging 26 g 41.3 The Level 3 financial assets of 0.3m were written down to nil during the year ended 30 April 2015.
The value of the assets is not material to the Group and therefore changes in valuations would not have a material effect on the financial statements.
c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments The Groups use of financial instruments exposes it to a variety of financial risks, principally: Market risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk: Credit risk: and Liquidity risk.
This note c presents qualitative information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, including the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk: there have been no significant changes to these matters during the year ended 30 April 2016.
This note c also provides summary quantitative data about the Groups exposure to each risk.
In addition, information on the Groups management of capital is provided in section 1.6.
10 of the Strategic report which forms part of these financial statements.
The Groups overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the likelihood and or magnitude of adverse effects on the financial performance and financial position of the Group.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments from time to time to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not generally hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
A Group Treasury Committee and central treasury department Group Treasury oversee financial risk management in the context of policies approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in co-operation with the Groups operating units.
Group Treasury is responsible for the execution of derivative financial instruments to manage financial risks.
Certain financial risk management activities for example, the management of credit risk arising from trade and other receivables are devolved to the management of individual business units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing excess liquidity.
i Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices and commodity prices will affect the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
The objective of the Groups management of market risk is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments in the ordinary course of business, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board.
Generally the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to reduce volatility in the consolidated income statement.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 111 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued Foreign currency translation risk Foreign currency translation risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument including foreign net investments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency translation risk principally as a result of net investments in foreign operations and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group has material foreign investments in Canada and the USA.
To reduce balance sheet translation exposure, the Group partially hedges the sterling carrying value of foreign operations through borrowings denominated in their functional currency or, where appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Gains and losses arising from hedging instruments that provide a hedge against foreign net investments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Bank loans drawn in USDollars and a US$150.0m bond issued in October 2012 have been accounted for as a hedge of the Groups foreign net investments.
The Groups objective in managing and measuring foreign currency translation risk associated with net investments in foreign operations and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies is to maintain an appropriate cost of borrowing and retain some potential for benefiting from currency movements whilst partially hedging against adverse currency movements.
It is the Groups policy to examine each foreign investment individually and to adopt an appropriate hedging strategy.
The Group measures foreign currency translation risk by identifying the carrying value of assets and liabilities denominated in the relevant foreign currency and quantifying the impact on equity of changes in the relevant foreign currency rate.
The Groups consolidated income statement is principally exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates in the following ways: The translation of the revenues and costs of the Groups North American operations: and The translation of interest payable on US dollar denominated debt.
The Groups consolidated balance sheet exposures to foreign currency translation risk excluding immaterial exposure to Euros were as follows: 2016 2015 m m US dollars Net investments in foreign operations excluding intra-group balances, cash and borrowings 244.6 249.4 Cash 25.9 33.8 Borrowings 198.7 183.3 Canadian dollars Net investments in foreign operations excluding intra-group balances, cash and borrowings 23.6 29.8 Cash 2.1 1.0 Net exposure 97.5 130.7 The amounts shown above are the carrying values of all US and Canadian dollar items in the consolidated balance sheet that would have differed at the balance sheet date had a different foreign currency exchange rate been applied, except that derivatives that are cash flow hedges are excluded.
The sensitivity of the amounts shown above in the Groups consolidated balance sheet to US and Canadian dollar translation exposures is illustrated below: 2016 2015 US dollar US dollar balance sheet foreign exchange rate 1.4649 1.5368 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.3184 1.3831 Increase in consolidated equity m 8.0 11.1 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.6114 1.6905 Decrease in consolidated equity m 6.5 9.1 Canadian dollar Canadian dollar balance sheet foreign exchange rate 1.8349 1.8614 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.6514 1.6753 Increase in consolidated equity m 2.9 3.4 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 2.0184 2.0475 Decrease in consolidated equity m 2.3 2.8 The above sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: Only those foreign currency assets and liabilities that are directly affected by changes in foreign exchange rates are included in the calculation.
The above calculations assume that the exchange rates between sterling and any currencies other than the one stated do not change as a result of the change in the exchange rate between the currencies stated.
page 112 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 113 Note 26 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued The Groups consolidated income statement exposures to foreign currency translation risk excluding immaterial exposure to Euros were as follows: 2016 2015 m m US dollars US$ element of North American operating profit 14.0 16.9 Intangible asset expenses 1.8 5.3 Redundancy restructuring costs 0.6 0.3 Share of loss profit of joint ventures excluding exceptional items 0.8 2.0 Exceptional items 37.9 7.9 Net finance costs 9.0 8.6 Net tax credit 12.3 0.5 Canadian dollars C$ element of North American operating profit 4.3 4.7 Redundancy restructuring costs adjustment 0.1 Net tax charge 1.0 1.1 Net exposure 20.5 1.0 The operating profit figures shown in the above table reconcile to the operating profit for North America shown in the segmental information in note 2 b as follows: 2016 2015 m m US$ element of North American operating profit shown above 14.0 16.9 C$ element of North American operating profit shown above 4.3 4.7 Share based payment adjustment denominated in sterling 0.6 0.5 Operating profit shown in segmental information 18.9 22.1 The sensitivity of the Groups consolidated income statement to US and Canadian dollar translation exposures is illustrated below: 2016 2015 US dollar US dollar average foreign exchange rate 1.5031 1.5988 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.3528 1.4389 Decrease in consolidated profit after taxation m 2.6 0.3 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against US dollar US dollar foreign exchange rate 1.6534 1.7587 Increase in consolidated profit after taxation m 2.2 0.2 Canadian dollar Canadian dollar average foreign exchange rate 1.9756 1.8323 Impact of 10% depreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 1.7780 1.6491 Increase in consolidated profit after taxation m 0.4 0.4 Impact of 10% appreciation of UK sterling against Canadian dollar Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate 2.1732 2.0155 Decrease in consolidated profit after taxation m 0.3 0.3 The above sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: Only those income statement items directly affected by changes in foreign exchange rates are included in the calculation.
For example, changes in the sterling value of commodity prices that indirectly occur due to changes in foreign exchange rates are not included in the sensitivity calculation.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 113 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued Foreign currency transactional risk Foreign currency transactional risk is the risk that future cash flows such as from sales and purchases of goods and services will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to limited foreign currency transactional risk due to the low value of transactions entered into by subsidiaries in currencies other than their functional currency.
Group Treasury carries out forward buying of currencies where appropriate.
The Group reviews and considers hedging of actual and forecast foreign exchange transactional exposures up to one year forward.
At 30 April 2016 there were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures 2015: Nil.
The Groups exposure to commodity price risk includes a foreign currency element due to the impact of foreign exchange rate movements on the sterling cost of fuel for the Groups UK operations.
The effect of foreign exchange rate movements on sterling-denominated fuel prices is managed through the use of fuel derivative financial instruments denominated in the functional currency in which the fuel is purchased.
Further information on fuel hedging is given under the heading Price risk on page 115.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk principally through its borrowings and interest rate derivatives.
It has a mixture of fixed-rate borrowings where the fair value is exposed to changes in market interest rates, cash and floating-rate borrowings where the future cash flows are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
The Groups objective with regards to interest rate risk is to reduce the risk of changes in interest rates significantly affecting future cash flows and or profit.
To provide some certainty as to the level of interest cost, it is the Groups policy to manage interest rate exposure through the use of fixed and floating rate debt.
Derivative financial instruments are also used where appropriate to generate the desired interest rate profile.
The Group measures interest rate risk by quantifying the relative proportions of each of gross debt and net debt that are effectively subject to fixed interest rates and considers the duration for which the relevant interest rates are fixed.
At 30 April 2016, the interest rate profile of the Groups interest bearing financial liabilities was as follows: Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total Weighted Weighted average fixed average period interest rate for which rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 187.2 405.9 593.1 4.0% 9.4 US Dollar 156.9 41.8 198.7 2.0% 2.7 Gross borrowings 344.1 447.7 791.8 3.8% 8.8 At 30 April 2015, the interest rate profile of the Groups interest bearing financial liabilities was as follows: Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total Weighted Weighted average fixed average period interest rate for which rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 189.9 412.1 602.0 5.8% 1.6 US Dollar 149.3 34.0 183.3 2.3% 2.2 Gross borrowings 339.2 446.1 785.3 5.5% 1.7 The above figures take into account the effect of US$150m of interest rate derivatives which swap the US$150m Notes maturing October 2022 from fixed to floating rate debt for a period of four years to December 2016.
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from one to six months based on market rates.
The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is shown in note 22 a.
The Groups financial assets on which floating interest is receivable include cash deposits and cash in hand of 382.3m 2015: 395.6m.
Loans to joint ventures of Nil 2015: 5.9m bear interest at a fixed rate of 6% 2015: fixed rate of 6% per annum.
As at 30 April 2016, the Group had no other financial assets on which fixed interest is receivable 2015: Nil.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
page 114 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 115 Note 26 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued The net impact of a change of 100 basis points on all relevant floating interest rates on annualised interest payable on cash and borrowings balances outstanding at the balance sheet date was not material.
Price risk The Group is exposed to commodity price risk.
The Groups operations as at 30 April 2016 consume approximately 425.3m litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups future profit and cash flows are exposed to movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups objective in managing commodity price risk is to reduce the risk that movements in fuel prices result in adverse movements in its profit and cash flow.
The Group has a policy of managing the volatility in its fuel costs by maintaining an ongoing fuel-hedging programme whereby derivatives are used to fix or cap the variable unit cost of a percentage of anticipated fuel consumption.
The Groups exposure to commodity price risk is measured by quantifying the element of projected future fuel costs, after taking account of derivatives in place, which varies due to movements in fuel prices.
Group Treasury is responsible for the processes for measuring and managing commodity price risk.
The Groups overall fuel costs include the impact of delivery margins, fuel taxes and fuel tax rebates.
These elements of fuel costs are not managed as part of Group Treasurys commodity price risk management and are managed directly by business unit management.
The Group uses a number of fuel derivatives to hedge against movements in the price of the different types of fuel used in each of its divisions.
The fuel derivatives hedge the underlying commodity price risk denominated in US$ and in the case of the UK Bus regional operations Division, the UK Bus London Division and the UK Rail Division, they also hedge the currency risk due to the commodity being priced in US$ and the functional currency of the divisions being pounds sterling.
At 30 April 2016 and 30 April 2015, the projected fuel costs excluding premia payable on fuel derivatives, delivery margins, fuel taxes and fuel tax rebates for the next twelve months were: 2016 2015 m m Costs subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus regional operations 66.5 81.7 UK Bus London 7.1 8.4 UK Rail 26.3 25.1 North America 26.0 33.2 125.9 148.4 Costs not subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus regional operations 1.1 2.1 megabus Europe 1.3 2.6 UK Bus London 4.5 6.1 UK Rail 1.7 1.4 North America 4.6 6.0 13.2 18.2 Total 139.1 166.6 The figures in the above table are after taking account of derivatives and applying the fuel prices and foreign exchange rates as at the balance sheet date.
If all of the relevant fuel prices were 10% higher at the balance sheet date, the amounts in the above table would change by the following: 2016 2015 m m Costs not subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus regional operations 0.1 0.2 megabus Europe 0.1 0.3 UK Bus London 0.4 0.6 UK Rail 0.2 0.1 North America 0.5 0.6 Decrease in projected profit before taxation 1.3 1.8 Stagecoach Group plc | page 115 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued i Market risk continued If all of the relevant fuel prices were 10% lower at the balance sheet date, the amounts would change by the following: 2016 2015 m m Costs not subject to fuel swaps: UK Bus regional operations 0.1 0.2 megabus Europe 0.1 0.3 UK Bus London 0.4 0.6 UK Rail 0.2 0.1 North America 0.5 0.6 Increase in projected profit before taxation 1.3 1.8 The revenue receivable under certain of the contracts that the Group has with customers is subject to adjustment for changes to certain fuel prices.
This further reduces the unhedged exposure to fuel prices shown above.
Demand for the Groups services can also be affected by movements in fuel prices due to the impact on the cost of competing transport services, including private cars.
The Group is also exposed to changes in electricity prices, principally in its UK Rail Division where electricity is consumed to power some of the trains operated.
The Group has some protection to price changes via rail industry arrangements to fix the price on a proportion of anticipated future electricity consumption.
The Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, is also exposed to changes in fuel and electricity prices and applies commodity price risk management strategies similar to those applied by the Group and explained above.
ii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Credit risk is managed by a combination of Group Treasury and business unit management, and arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to amounts due from outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Groups objective is to minimise credit risk to an acceptable level whilst not overly restricting the Groups ability to generate revenue and profit.
It is the Groups policy to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
To control credit risk, counterparty credit limits are set by reference to published credit ratings and the counterpartys geographical location.
The Group considers the risk of material loss in the event of non-performance by a financial counterparty to be low.
In determining whether a financial asset is impaired, the Group takes account of: The fair value of the asset at the balance sheet date and where applicable, the historic fair value of the asset: In the case of receivables, the counterpartys typical payment patterns: In the case of receivables, the latest available information on the counterpartys creditworthiness such as available financial statements, credit ratings etc.
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is shown in note 19.
The table below shows the financial assets exposed to credit risk at the balance sheet date: Gross Impairment Net exposure Gross Impairment Net exposure 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 m m m m m m Trade receivables 237.1 2.5 234.6 204.7 2.8 201.9 Loans, other receivables and accrued income 69.5 69.5 79.0 79.0 Cash and cash equivalents pledged as collateral 18.6 18.6 18.8 18.8 Cash and cash equivalents other 363.7 363.7 376.8 376.8 Excluding derivative financial instruments 688.9 2.5 686.4 679.3 2.8 676.5 Derivatives used for hedging 6.6 6.6 3.4 3.4 Total exposure to credit risk 695.5 2.5 693.0 682.7 2.8 679.9 The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer or counterparty.
The Groups largest credit exposures are to the UKsDepartment for Transport, Transport for London, and other government bodies and financial institutions with short-term credit ratings of A2 or equivalent or better, all of which the Group considers unlikely to default on their respective liabilities to the Group.
page 116 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 117 Note 26 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued ii Credit risk continued The Groups total net exposure to credit risk by geographic region is analysed below: 2016 2015 m m United Kingdom &Europe 644.6 623.5 North America 48.4 56.4 693.0 679.9 The Groups financial assets by currency are analysed below: 2016 2015 m m Sterling &Euros 643.7 623.2 US dollars 46.5 54.8 Canadian dollars 2.8 1.9 693.0 679.9 The amount of financial assets denominated inEuros included in the figures above is immaterial.
The following financial assets were past due, but not impaired at the balance sheet date: 2016 2015 m m Amounts 1 to 90 days overdue 4.7 7.0 Amounts 91 to 180 days overdue 0.8 2.6 Amounts 181 to 365 days overdue 0.8 0.8 Amounts more than 365 days overdue 2.0 1.8 8.3 12.2 The Group does not hold any collateral in respect of its credit risk exposures set out above 2015: Nil and has not taken possession of any collateral it holds or called for other credit enhancements during the year ended 30 April 2016 2015: Nil.
iii Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups objective in managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the business.
As at 30 April 2016, the Groups credit facilities were 1,146.6m 2015: 1,141.1m, 686.5m 2015: 673.7m of which were utilised, including utilisation for the issuance of bank guarantees, performance season ticket bonds and letters of credit.
The Group had the following undrawn committed banking and uncommitted asset finance facilities: 2016 2015 m m Expiring within one year 189.9 168.1 Expiring beyond two years 270.2 299.3 460.1 467.4 Although there is an element of seasonality in the Groups bus and rail operations, the overall impact of seasonality on working capital and liquidity is not considered significant.
The Board expects the Group to be able to meet current and future funding requirements through free cash flow and available committed facilities.
In addition, the Group has investment grade credit ratings which should allow it access at short notice to additional bank and capital markets debt funding.
The Group has bank lines of credit arranged on a bi-lateral basis with a group of relationship banks which provide bank facilities for general corporate purposes.
These arranged lines of credit allow cash drawdowns to finance the Group and also include facilities which are dedicated to issuing performance season ticket bonds, guarantees and letters of credit.
The Groups committed bank facilities as at 30 April 2016 are analysed below: Performance bonds, Available for Available for Loans guarantees non-cash cash Facility drawn etc drawn utilisation only drawings Expiring in m m m m m MAINGROUpFACILITIeS 2020 620.0 189.6 160.2 2.5 267.7 2018 15.0 15.0 2017 209.7 181.4 28.3 844.7 189.6 356.6 30.8 267.7 LOCAL&SHORT-TeRMFACILITIeS Various 23.0 9.5 13.5 867.7 189.6 366.1 30.8 281.2 Stagecoach Group plc | page 117 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Financial instruments continued c Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued iii Liquidity risk continued The Group manages its liquidity risk based on contracted cash flows.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments.
As at 30 April 2016 Carrying Contractual Less 1-2 2-5 More amount cash flows than 1 year years years than 5 years m m m m m m Non derivative financial liabilities: Unsecured bond issues 506.1 691.5 20.5 20.5 61.4 589.1 Finance lease liabilities 41.8 43.5 18.5 7.4 17.6 Hire purchase liabilities 35.0 35.9 17.2 12.0 6.7 Loan notes payable 19.3 19.3 19.3 Trade and other payables 665.1 665.1 659.1 6.0 Bank loans 189.6 189.8 0.2 189.6 1,456.9 1,645.1 734.8 45.9 275.3 589.1 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging 60.8 60.8 41.3 18.5 1.0 1,517.7 1,705.9 776.1 64.4 276.3 589.1 As at 30 April 2015 Carrying Contractual Less 1-2 2-5 More amount cash flows than 1 year years years than 5 years m m m m m m Non derivative financial liabilities: Unsecured bond issues 505.7 564.9 27.3 416.3 12.9 108.4 Finance lease liabilities 34.0 35.0 13.4 14.1 7.5 Hire purchase liabilities 54.0 55.8 20.2 17.6 18.0 Loan notes payable 19.5 19.5 19.5 Trade and other payables 672.7 672.7 671.2 1.5 Bank loans 172.1 172.5 0.4 172.1 1,458.0 1,520.4 752.0 449.5 210.5 108.4 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging 41.3 41.3 35.9 3.4 1.7 0.3 1,499.3 1,561.7 787.9 452.9 212.2 108.7 The contractual cash flows shown in the above tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows under the relevant financial instruments.
Where the contractual cash flows are variable based on a price, foreign exchange rate, interest rate or index in the future, the contractual cash flows in the above table have been determined with reference to the value of the relevant price, foreign exchange rate, interest rate or index as at the balance sheet date.
In determining the interest element of contractual cash flows in cases where the Group has a choice as to the length of interest calculation periods and the interest rate that applies varies with the period selected, the contractual cash flows have been calculated assuming the Group selects the shortest available interest calculation periods.
Where the holder of an instrument has a choice of when to redeem, the amounts in the above tables are on the assumption the holder redeems at the earliest opportunity.
In the case of bank loans, which are drawn under revolving facilities, the contracted interest cash flows in respect of interest up to and including the next rollover date are shown and the principal is shown as repayable at the expiry date of the relevant facility.
page 118 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 119 Note 26 Financial instruments continued d Accounting policies The Groups significant accounting policies and measurement bases in respect of financial instruments are disclosed in note 1. e Collateral Included within the cash and cash equivalents balance of 382.3m as at 30 April 2016 2015: 395.6m are 18.6m 2015: 18.8m of cash balances that have been pledged as collateral for liabilities as follows: 18.2m 2015: 18.4m has been pledged by the Group as collateral for 18.2m 2015: 18.4m of loan notes that are classified within current liabilities: borrowings.
The cash is held on deposit at Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland has guaranteed the Groups obligations to the holders of the loan notes and to the extent that the Group fails to satisfy its obligations under the loan notes, Bank of Scotland shall use the cash collateral to satisfy such obligations.
0.4m 2015: 0.4m is held in an escrow account in North America in relation to insurance claims.
The fair value of the financial assets pledged as collateral is the same as their carrying value as at 30 April 2016 and 30 April 2015. f Defaults and breaches The Group has not defaulted on any loans payable during the years ended 30 April 2016 and 30 April 2015 and no loans payable were in default as at 30 April 2016 and 30 April 2015.
The Group was in compliance with all bank loan covenants as at 30 April 2016 and as at 30 April 2015. g Hedge accounting A summary of the Groups current hedging arrangements is provided in the table below.
Type of hedge Risks hedged by Group Hedging instruments used Fair value hedges Interest rate risks Derivatives interest rate swaps Cash flow hedges Commodity price risk Derivatives commodity swaps Interest rate risks Derivatives interest rate swaps Hedges of net investment in foreign operations Foreign investment risk Foreign currency borrowings Carrying value and fair value of derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are classified on the balance sheet as follows: 2016 2015 m m Non-current assets Interest rate derivatives 1.8 0.1 Fuel derivatives 3.8 2.2 5.6 2.3 Current assets Fuel derivatives 1.0 1.1 Current liabilities Interest rate derivatives 1.1 Fuel derivatives 40.2 35.9 41.3 35.9 Non-current liabilities Interest rate derivatives 0.8 Fuel derivatives 19.5 4.6 19.5 5.4 Interest rate derivatives 0.7 0.7 Fuel derivatives 54.9 37.2 54.2 37.9 The fair value of derivative financial instruments is equal to their carrying value, as shown in the above table.
Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement, all significant contracts to which the Group is a party have been reviewed for embedded derivatives.
There were no embedded derivatives as at 30 April 2016 2015: None which were separately accounted for.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 119 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 16:03 Page 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 26 Financial instruments continued g Hedge accounting continued Cash flow hedges - fuel As noted previously, the Group uses a number of fuel derivatives to hedge the different types of fuel used in each of its divisions.
The movements in the fair value of fuel derivatives in the year were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Fuel derivatives Fair value at start of year 37.2 12.3 Changes in fair value during year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 82.8 56.0 Cash paid during the year 65.1 31.1 Fair value at end of year 54.9 37.2 The fair value of the fuel derivatives split by maturity was as follows: Assets Liabilities m m As at 30 April 2016 Within one year 1.0 40.2 1 to 2 years 2.9 18.5 2 to 3 years 0.9 0.8 More than 3 years 0.2 4.8 59.7 As at 30 April 2015 Within one year 1.1 35.9 1 to 2 years 2.2 3.0 2 to 3 years 1.3 More than 3 years 0.3 3.3 40.5 The fair value of fuel derivatives is further analysed by currency and segment as follows: Fair value Notional quantity of fuel covered by derivatives m Millions of litres As at 30 April 2016 Sterling denominated UK Bus regional operations 34.1 634.1 Sterling denominated UK Bus London 4.5 63.4 Sterling denominated UK Rail 5.6 183.1 US dollar denominated North America 10.7 152.4 54.9 1,033.0 As at 30 April 2015 Sterling denominated UK Bus regional operations 20.0 398.8 Sterling denominated UK Bus London 3.7 47.5 Sterling denominated UK Rail 3.3 114.2 US dollar denominated North America 10.2 143.9 37.2 704.4 Fair value and cash flow hedges - interest The Group uses a number of interest rate derivatives to hedge its exposure to movements in interest rates.
In connection with the issue of the Groups US$150m Bonds in October 2012, the Group entered into a number of interest rate fair value hedges.
In addition, during the year ended 30 April 2015, the Group entered into a number of interest rate derivatives as cash flow hedges of the Groups exposure to floating interest rates fromDecember 2016.
In September 2015, following the issue of the Groups 400m sterling notes, these sterling-denominated interest rate derivatives were subsequently cancelled.
The Group entered into new interest rate derivatives as fair value hedges of the Groups exposure to fixed interest rates from December 2016 on expiry of the existing US dollar-denominated fair value hedges.
Cash flow hedges Fair value hedges 2016 2015 2016 2015 m m m m Interest rate derivatives Fair value at start of year 0.6 0.1 0.3 Changes in fair value reflected in carrying value of hedged item 1.1 0.6 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 1.4 0.6 Cash paid received during the year 2.0 0.3 0.4 Fair value at end of year 0.6 0.7 0.1 page 120 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 16:04 Page 121 Note 26 Financial instruments continued g Hedge accounting continued Fair value and cash flow hedges - interest continued The fair value of the interest rate derivatives split by maturity as at 30 April 2016 was as follows: Assets Liabilities m m As at 30 April 2016 Within one year Nil Nil 1.1 1 to 2 years Nil Nil 0.5 2 to 3 years Nil Ni 1.3 Nil Nil 1.8 1.1 The fair value of the interest rate derivatives split by maturity as at 30 April 2015 was as follows: Assets Liabilities m m As at 30 April 2015 1 to 2 years Nil Nil 0.4 2 to 3 years Nil Nil 0.4 More than 3 years Nil Ni 0.1 Nil Nil 0.1 0.8 All of the interest rate derivatives were managed and held centrally.
Cash flow hedging reserve Interest Fuel Total The movements in the cash flow hedging reserve were as follows: derivatives derivatives mm m m Cash flow hedging reserve at 30 April 2014 9.4 9.4 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 0.6 56.0 56.6 Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for year 35.1 35.1 Tax effect of cash flow hedges 0.1 4.0 4.1 Cash flow hedging reserve at 30 April 2015 0.5 26.3 26.8 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 1.4 82.8 84.2 Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for year 2.0 65.8 67.8 Tax effect of cash flow hedges 0.1 3.0 2.9 Cash flow hedging reserve at 30 April 2016 40.3 40.3 Cash flow hedging reserve before tax 49.8 49.8 Tax to be credited to income statement in future periods 9.5 9.5 Cash flow hedging reserve after tax 40.3 40.3 During the year ended 30 April 2015, the Group entered into interest rate derivatives as cash flow hedges.
These derivatives were intended to hedge against the variability of forecast future floating-rate interest payments on debt fromDecember 2016.
In September 2015, the Group issued 400m of new fixed-rate bonds to re-finance the previous 400m of fixed-rate bonds that were due to mature in December 2016.
Following that issue of new bonds, the forecast floating-rate interest payments were no longer expected to occur because fixed-rate debt had been issued rather than the previously anticipated floating-rate debt.
The derivatives were cancelled following the new bond issue.
There have been no other instances during the year ended 30 April 2016 2015: None from a Group perspective where a forecast transaction for which hedge accounting had previously been used was no longer expected to occur.
Hedge of foreign net investments The Groups hedging of foreign net investments during the year ended 30 April 2016 is explained on page 112.
The movements in the fair value of the US$150m 4.36% notes and US$ bank loans used as hedging instruments in the year were as follows: 2016 2015 m m US$ 4.36% notes Fair value at start of year 97.6 88.9 Changes in fair value during the year 4.8 8.7 Fair value at end of year 102.4 97.6 US$ bank loans Fair value at start of year 52.1 47.4 Changes in fair value during the year 2.5 4.7 Fair value at end of year 54.6 52.1 The fair values of the non-derivative hedging instruments shown above only take account of fair value movements arising from movements in foreign exchange rates.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 121 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27Share capital Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are no longer required to have an authorised share capital and a resolution was passed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to take advantage of this deregulating measure.
Therefore, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The allotted, called-up and fully paid ordinary share capital was: 2016 2015 No.
of shares m Allotted, called-up and fully-paid ordinary shares of 125 228 pence each At beginning and end of year 576,099,960 3.2 576,099,960 3.2 The balance on the share capital account shown above represents the aggregate nominal value of all ordinary shares in issue.
This figure includes 1,885,887 2015: 1,371,639 ordinary shares held in treasury, which are treated as a deduction from equity in the Groups financial statements.
The shares held in treasury do not qualify for dividends.
The Group operates two Employee Share Ownership Trusts: the Stagecoach Group Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST and the Stagecoach Group Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
Shares held by these trusts are treated as a deduction from equity in the Groups financial statements.
Other assets and liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in the Groups financial statements as if they were assets and liabilities of the Group.
As at 30 April 2016, the QUEST held 300,634 2015: 300,634 ordinary shares in the Company and the EBT held no 2015: 891,396 ordinary shares in the Company.
The trusts have waived dividends on the shares they hold and therefore received no dividends during the year ended 30 April 2016 2015: Nil.
The trust deed for the EBT obliges the trustee to waive the right to any dividend on the shares unless and until they are vested in an individual.
The trustee is confirmed not to be liable for any lost income as a result of that waiver.
The QUEST deed requires the trustee to waive any dividends payable on the shares and the QUEST confirms that waiver within the deed.
This can be reversed by a direction from the Company to the trustee but is otherwise ongoing.
Note 28Share based payments The Group operates a Buy as You Earn Scheme BAYE, a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and an Executive Participation Plan EPP.
The Directors remuneration report in section 8 of this Annual Report gives further details of each of these arrangements.
As disclosed in note 6, share based payment charges of 2.8m 2015: 4.8m have been recognised in the income statement during the year in relation to the above schemes.
The following assumptions were applied in accounting for awards under the LTIPscheme: June December June December June December June December Grant date 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 Share price at time of grant award 2.6170 3.1210 3.1595 3.7200 3.8000 3.7920 4.1700 3.0470 Vesting period years 33 3 3 3 3 3 3 Option award life years 33 3 3 3 3 3 3 Expected life years 33 3 3 3 3 3 3 Expected dividends expressed as an average annual dividend yield 3.22% 2.70% 2.94% 2.50% 2.70% 2.71% 2.72% 3.72% Fair value per Incentive Unit at grant date 0.75 0.90 0.90 1.06 2.60 2.59 2.85 2.08 Bespoke Bespoke Bespoke Bespoke Bespoke Bespoke Bespoke Bespoke Option pricing model simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation simulation Ignoring non-market vesting conditions.
LTIP awards are based on Incentive Units.
One Incentive Unit has a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares but subject to performance conditions.
LTIP awards are not share options and are valued using a separate simulation model and disclosures in respect of exercise prices, expected volatility and risk free rates are not applicable.
Expectations of meeting market-based performance criteria are reflected in the fair value of the LTIP awards.
page 122 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 123 Note 28Share based payments continued Long Term Incentive plan Under the LTIP, executives are awarded Incentive Units with a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares but subject to the same performance conditions disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
TSR ranking is based on the Groups ranking of total shareholder return in the FTSE 250 whereby 1 is top of the comparator group.
The TSR ranking is calculated by independent advisors.
executive participation plan Under the EPP, executives and senior managers sacrifice part of their actual annual cash bonus and are awarded Deferred Shares with an initial market value approximately equal to the amount of bonus foregone.
The movements in EPP Deferred Shares were as follows: Outstanding Awards granted Vested Lapsed Dividends Outstanding Expected total Closing at start of year in year in year in year in year at end of year value of award at share price on Award date Deferred Shares Deferred Shares Deferred Shares Deferred Shares Deferred Shares Deferred Shares Vesting date time of grant date of grant 27 June 2012 891,396 891,396 30 June 2015 2,271,556 2.6190 27 June 2013 748,255 2,168 22,583 25,288 748,792 29 June 2016 2,289,350 3.1600 26 June 2014 673,119 1,720 14,617 22,957 679,739 26 June 2017 2,497,467 3.8100 25 June 2015 519,366 14,905 17,635 522,096 25 June 2018 2,165,756 4.1960 10 Dec 2015 26,253 344 26,597 10 Dec 2018 79,993 2.9800 2,312,770 545,619 895,284 52,105 66,224 1,977,224 Buy As You earn Scheme BAYEenables eligible employees to purchase shares partnership shares from their gross income.
TheCompany provides two matching shares for every share bought from the first 10 of each employees monthly investment, subject to a maximum Company contribution of shares to the value of 20 per employee per month.
If the shares are held in trust for five years or more, no Income Tax and National Insurance will be payable.
The matching shares will be forfeited if the corresponding partnership shares are removed from trust within three years of award.
At 30 April 2016 there were 9,578 2015: 8,732 participants in the BAYE scheme to which were attributed 5,848,847 2015: 4,438,746 shares that they purchased, 1,831,550 2015: 1,473,172 matching shares that the Company contributed and 458,081 shares 2015: 261,500 in respect of notional dividends.
These amounts exclude unattributed shares and any shares to be withdrawn because the employee has left the Group or requested a withdrawal.
Note 29 Reserves A reconciliation of the movements in each reserve is shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 69.
The balance of the share premium account represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares offset by issue costs, bonus issues of shares and any transfer between reserves.
The balance held in the retained earnings reserve is the accumulated retained profits of the Group.
Cumulative goodwill of 113.8m 2015: 113.8m has been written off against reserves in periods prior to 1 May 1998 in accordance with the UKaccounting standards then in force and such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
The capital redemption reserve represents the cumulative par value of all shares bought back and cancelled.
Details of own shares held are given in note 27.
The own shares reserve represents the cumulative cost of shares in Stagecoach Group plc purchased in the market and held in treasury and or by the Groups two Employee Share Ownership Trusts offset by cumulative sales proceeds.
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translations of the financial statements of foreign operations.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
The cash flow hedging reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge.
The cumulative gain or loss is recycled to the income statement to match the recognition of the hedged item through the income statement.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 123 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 30 Consolidated cash flows a Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations The operating profit of Group companies reconciles to cash generated by operations as follows: 2016 2015 m m Operating profit of Group companies 182.2 189.8 Depreciation 132.2 120.1 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 2.3 Exceptional items 6.0 Intangible asset expenses 15.8 11.9 Equity-settled share based payment expense 2.2 2.2 Operating cashflows before working capital movements 338.9 321.7 Increase decrease in inventories 0.5 3.4 Increase in receivables 11.2 34.1 Decrease increase in payables 12.0 85.8 Decrease in provisions 16.2 9.5 Differences between employer pension contributions and pension expense in operating profit 4.7 0.4 Cash generated by operations 303.7 367.7 b Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt The decrease increase in cash reconciles to the movement in net debt as follows: 2016 2015 m m Decrease increase in cash 14.8 152.5 Cash flow from movement in borrowings 50.4 51.5 35.6 101.0 New hire purchase and finance leases 22.3 6.4 Foreign exchange movements 7.6 14.1 Other movements 23.7 0.2 Increase decrease in net debt 18.0 80.3 Opening net debt as defined in note 35 381.3 461.6 Closing net debt as defined in note 35 399.3 381.3 c Analysis of net debt For the purpose of this note, net debt is as defined in note 35.
The analysis below further shows the other items classified as net borrowings in the consolidated balance sheet.
Other New hire Foreign Charged to purchase exchange income Opening Cashflows finance leases movements statement Closing m m m m m m Cash 376.8 14.6 1.5 363.7 Cash collateral see note 26 e 18.8 0.2 18.6 Hire purchase and finance lease obligations 88.0 35.4 22.3 1.9 76.8 Bank loans and loan notes 191.6 14.8 2.5 208.9 Bonds 497.3 29.8 4.7 23.7 495.9 Net debt 381.3 35.6 22.3 7.6 23.7 399.3 Accrued interest on bonds 8.5 24.5 25.5 9.5 Effect of fair value hedges on carrying value of borrowings 0.1 0.8 0.7 Net borrowings IFRS 389.7 60.1 22.3 7.6 50.0 409.5 The cash amounts shown above include term deposits as explained in note 20 and cash held by train operating companies as explained in note 31 iii.
d Non cash transactions The principal non cash transactions were the acquisition of property, plant and equipment using new hire purchase and finance leases.
During the year, the Group entered into hire purchase and finance lease arrangements in respect of new assets with a total capital value at the inception of the contracts of 22.3m 2015: 6.4m and no deposits paid up front.
page 124 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 16:05 Page 125 Note 31 Contingencies Contingent liabilities i At 30 April 2016, the following bonds and bank guarantees were in place relating to the Groups rail operations: 2016 2015 m m Performance bonds backed by bank facilities and or insurance arrangements South West Trains 40.2 36.8 East Midlands Trains 15.0 30.5 Virgin Trains East Coast 20.0 20.0 Season ticket bonds backed by bank facilities and or insurance arrangements South West Trains 60.5 59.7 East Midlands Trains 6.6 6.3 Virgin Trains East Coast 4.6 4.0 Shareholder loan commitment backed by bank facilities Virgin Trains East Coast 82.5 82.5 These contingent liabilities are not expected to crystallise.
ii The Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have, in the normal course of business, entered into a number of long-term supply contracts.
The most significant of these relate to track, station and depot access facilities, together with train lease and maintenance arrangements.
iii Under UK Rail franchise agreements, the Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have agreed with the Department for Transport annual amounts receivable or payable in respect of the operation of rail franchises for future periods.
Under these agreements, there is a requirement to comply with a number of obligations.
Failure to comply with these obligations would be a breach of the relevant franchise.
The profit of Virgin Trains East Coast under the rail franchise that began on 1 March 2015 has been less than that forecast by the Group at the time of its bid for the franchise.
Revenue growth has been slower than anticipated and that may affect the forecast of future years profitability.
Accordingly, the Group has updated its financial forecasts in respect of Virgin Trains East Coast for the full, core term of its franchise.
Those forecasts anticipate that the business will earn a profit over the remaining term of its franchise and as a result, no onerous contract provision is required as at 30 April 2016.
The forecasts are based on a number of assumptions, most significantly in respect of future revenue growth and on the application of relevant contracts.
There can be no certainty that actual outcomes will be consistent with those currently forecast.
The Group assessed whether a provision for onerous contracts is required in respect of its other rail franchises.
The Group has discounted the expected future cash flows related to its rail franchises to determine whether it is probable that the benefits to be derived by the Group from the franchises will be lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligations under the franchises.
Estimates of cash flows are consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
The Group has determined that no provision is necessary.
The estimation of future cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant degree of judgement.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
Under certain circumstances following a breach by the Group of one or more of its rail franchise agreements, the Department for Transport has the right to terminate the relevant franchises.
Where the Group has defaulted on one franchise, the Department for Transport has cross-default rights in certain circumstances that might enable it but not require it to terminate another of the franchises.
The financial effect on the Group of a termination of one or more franchises would depend on which, if any, of the Groups contingent liabilities that the Department for Transport sought to call.
As at 30 April 2016, the capital at risk of the Group in this respect was: Virgin Trains South West East Midlands East Coast Trains Trains Total m m m m Actual liabilities Net intra-group amounts payable to train operators 65.9 65.9 Contingent liabilities Season ticket bonds 4.6 60.5 6.6 71.7 Performance bonds 20.0 40.2 15.0 75.2 Parent company guarantees to suppliers 6.6 3.0 9.6 Undrawn committed loan facilities 131.0 25.0 40.9 196.9 Capital at risk as at 30 April 2016 162.2 191.6 65.5 419.3 Cash Cash in train operating companies 105.0 103.1 75.0 283.1 Pro forma impact on net debt 267.2 294.7 140.5 702.4 To the extent that any of the above contingent liabilities in respect of Virgin Trains East Coast crystallise the Group is contractually entitled to recover 10% of any such payment from Virgin Holdings Limited.
The Group has credit exposure to Virgin Holdings Limited in this regard.
We consider the likelihood of the contingent liabilities crystallising as being low.
However, if all of the contingent liabilities had crystallised at 30 April 2016, the Group would have needed to have financed 419.3m 2015: 425.2m and, subject to any amounts it recovered from Virgin Holdings Limited, its gross debt would have increased by this amount.
In addition, some of the cash in the train operating companies would be transferred with the franchises.
There is no recourse to the Group in respect of any liabilities or contingent liabilities of Virgin Rail Group.
Under the terms of the franchise agreements, other than with the UK Department for Transports consent, train operating companies can only distribute cash out of retained earnings and only to the extent they do not breach the financial covenants specified in applicable contracts.
"Stagecoach Group plc | page 125 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 31 Contingencies continued Contingent liabilities continued iv The US Department of Justice and the New York Attorney General together, ""the Government plaintiffs"" initiated litigation against Twin America and its joint venture partners in 2012."
The litigation alleged that the formation of the Twin America joint venture in 2009 was anti-competitive.
A settlement was agreed with the USDepartment of Justice and the New York Attorney Generals office, and has received court approval.
Related to the Twin America litigation involving the Groups North America Division, the Department of Justice is continuing to investigate the conduct of company personnel in responding to discovery obligations in the investigation and litigation.
The Department of Justice has not taken any enforcement action related to these issues, and the Group is co-operating with the investigation.
v The Group and the Company are from time to time party to other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
Liabilities have been recognised in the financial statements for the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle obligations arising under such legal actions.
As at 30 April 2016, the accruals in the consolidated financial statements for such claims total 0.1m 2015: 0.1m in addition to the amounts recognised specifically in respect of the Twin America litigation noted in iv above.
In addition, certain of the claims intended to be covered by the insurance provisions see note 24 are subject to or might become subject to litigation against the Group and or the Company.
Note 32 Guarantees and other financial commitments a Capital commitments Contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Contracted for but not provided: For delivery within one year 141.7 146.0 b Operating lease commitments The following were the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2016: As at 30 April 2016 Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2017 19.7 17.2 237.0 5.9 279.8 Year ending 30 April 2018 14.3 12.9 112.2 4.9 144.3 Year ending 30 April 2019 11.3 11.0 122.5 3.2 148.0 Year ending 30 April 2020 9.3 6.1 296.5 2.2 314.1 Year ending 30 April 2021 8.8 2.3 329.2 1.8 342.1 1 May 2021 and thereafter 30.4 0.1 638.6 3.2 672.3 93.8 49.6 1,736.0 21.2 1,900.6 The following were the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2015: As at 30 April 2015 Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2016 17.0 19.3 216.9 6.8 260.0 Year ending 30 April 2017 12.1 13.3 176.1 5.0 206.5 Year ending 30 April 2018 8.0 9.3 78.5 4.2 100.0 Year ending 30 April 2019 7.1 7.4 75.1 3.7 93.3 Year ending 30 April 2020 6.2 2.3 36.4 3.5 48.4 1 May 2020 and thereafter 28.5 3.5 8.8 40.8 78.9 51.6 586.5 32.0 749.0 The amounts shown above do not include Network Rail charges, which are shown separately in note 32 c. page 126 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 127 Note 32 Guarantees and other financial commitments continued c Network Rail charges The Groups UKRail franchises have contracts with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots.
Commitments for payments, until the expected end of the franchises or the end of the current Network Rail regulatory control period, if earlier, under these contracts as at 30 April 2016 are as shown below.
2016. m Year ending 30 April 2017 88.2 Year ending 30 April 2018 46.4 Year ending 30 April 2019 51.0 185.6 Commitments for payments under these contracts as at 30 April 2015 were as follows: 2015 m Year ending 30 April 2016 80.9 Year ending 30 April 2017 63.3 Year ending 30 April 2018 26.7 Year ending 30 April 2019 46.7 217.6 d Joint ventures Our share of commitments and contingent liabilities in joint ventures shown below are based on the latest statutory financial statements of the relevant companies: 2016 2015 m m Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 71.3 71.5 Franchise performance bonds 10.3 10.3 Season ticket bonds 2.9 2.8 Note 33 Related party transactions Details of major related party transactions during the year ended 30 April 2016 are provided below, except for those relating to the remuneration of the Directors and management.
i Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited Two of the Groups directors are non-executive directors of the Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
During the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group earned fees of 60,000 2015: 60,000 from Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited in this regard.
As at 30 April 2016, the Group had 60,000 2015: 60,000 receivable from Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited in respect of this.
In addition, the Group net purchased 0.2m 2015: 0.4m from the group headed by Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, principally in respect of work undertaken on rail franchise bids, and had an outstanding receivable of Nil as at 30 April 2016 2015: 0.1m in this respect.
The Group also earned Nil 2015: 0.3m from Virgin Holdings Limited which holds a 51% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, in respect of work undertaken on rail franchise bids, and had an outstanding receivable of Nil as at 30 April 2016 2015: Nil in this respect.
ii WestCoast Trains Limited West Coast Trains Limited is a subsidiary of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited see note 33 i.
In the year ended 30 April 2016, East Midlands Trains Limited a subsidiary of the Group had purchases totalling 0.2m 2015: 0.2m from West Coast Trains Limited, and sales to West Coast Trains Limited totalling 0.3m 2015: 1.4m.
The outstanding amounts payable as at 30 April 2016 and 30 April 2015 were immaterial.
The Group had Nil receivable from West Coast Trains Limited as at 30 April 2016 30 April 2015: 1.4m.
iii Alexander Dennis Limited Sir Brian Souter Chairman and Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director collectively hold, via companies that they control, 55.1% 2015: 55.1% of the shares and voting rights in Alexander Dennis Limited.
Noble Grossart Investments Limited of which Sir Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director is a director of its holding company controls a further 33.2% 2015: 33.2% of the shares and voting rights of Alexander Dennis Limited.
None of Sir Brian Souter, Ann Gloag or Sir Ewan Brown is a director of Alexander Dennis Limited nor do they have any involvement in the management of Alexander Dennis Limited.
Furthermore, they do not participate in deciding on and negotiating the terms and conditions of transactions between the Group and Alexander Dennis Limited.
For the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group purchased 75.4m 2015: 64.0m of vehicles from Alexander Dennis Limited and 9.8m 2015: 8.9m of spare parts and other services.
As at 30 April 2016, the Group had 1.0m 2015: 0.8m payable to Alexander Dennis Limited, along with outstanding orders of 96.0m 2015: 64.0m.
iv pension Schemes Details of contributions made to pension schemes are contained in note 25.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 127 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 33 Related party transactions continued v Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited A non interest bearing loan of 1.7m 2015: 1.7m was due to the Groups joint venture, Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, as at 30 April 2016.
The Group earned 22.0m in the year ended 30 April 2016 in respect of the operation of services subcontracted by Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited 2015: 23.8m.
As at 30 April 2016, the Group had a net 0.5m 2015: 0.7m receivable from Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, excluding the loan referred to above.
vi Twin America LLC In the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group earned revenue of 2.4m 2015: 3.3m from its joint venture, Twin America LLC, in respect of ticket sales made by Twin America LLC for tour services provided by Group subsidiaries.
As at 30 April 2016, the Group had 0.2m 2015: 0.5m receivable from Twin America LLC in this regard.
The Group had an outstanding receivable of Nil as at 30 April 2016 2015: 5.9m in respect of a loan note to Twin America LLC.
The interest receivable for the year ended 30 April 2016 was Nil 2015: 0.1m.
vii east Coast Main Line Company Limited The Group owns 90% and Virgin Holdings Limited owns 10% of the ordinary shares in Inter City Railways Limited.
East Coast Main Line Company Limited is 100% owned by Inter City Railways Limited and enters into various arms length transactions with other Group companies.
In the year ended 30 April 2016, other Group companies earned 16.3m 1 March 2015 to 30 April 2015: 4.4m from East Coast Main Line Company Limited in respect of the provision of certain services including train maintenance and rail replacement bus services.
Other Group companies had a net payable to EastCoast Main Line Company Limited of 0.8m as at 30 April 2016 2015: 1.2m.
The ultimate parent company of the Group, Stagecoach Group plc, had an outstanding receivable of 52.5m as at 30 April 2016 2015: 35.0m in respect of loans to East Coast Main Line Company Limited.
The interest receivable for the year ended 30 April 2016 was 1.2m 1 March 2015 to 30 April 2015: 0.2m.
Related to that, the Group had an outstanding payable of 5.3m 2015: 3.5m in respect of a loan from Virgin Holdings Limited.
In addition, in the year ended 30 April 2016, East Coast Main Line Company Limited purchased services amounting to 2.2m 2015: 0.5m from Virgin Holdings Limited.
The Group had a payable balance of Nil to Virgin Holdings Limited at 30 April 2016 in this respect 2015: 0.5m.
Note 34 post balance sheet events Details of the final dividend proposed are given in note 8.
On 1 July 2016, the Group completed the sale of the retailing part of the megabus Europe business to FlixBus.
The consideration was satisfied by the issue of a loan note and the Group expects that loan note to be fully settled by the end of 2017.
The Group has also agreed that it will transfer a number of vehicles to FlixBus, or a nominee of FlixBus, at a future date.
The Group may incur some costs as a result of the sale.
After taking account of these costs, the Group expects to report an exceptional gain on the disposal of the business.
In addition, the Group expects to profitably operate a number of intercity coach services on behalf of FlixBus between the UK and mainland Europe for at least a further three years.
Note 35 Definitions Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit attributable to equity holders of the parent excluding intangible asset expenses and exceptional items by the basic weighted average number of shares in issue in the period.
Like-for-like amounts are derived, on a constant currency basis, by comparing the relevant year-to-date amount with the equivalent prior year period for those businesses and individual operating units that have been part of the Group throughout both periods.
Operating profit or loss for a particular business unit or division within the Group refers to profit or loss before net finance income costs, taxation, intangible asset expenses, exceptional items and restructuring costs except where shown otherwise in note 2 g. Operating margin for a particular business unit or division within the Group means operating profit or loss as a percentage of revenue.
exceptional items means items which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate need to be disclosed by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to allow a proper understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Gross debt is borrowings as reported on the consolidated balance sheet, adjusted to exclude accrued interest and the effect of fair value hedges on the carrying value of borrowings.
Net debt or net funds is the net of cash and gross debt.
