NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Accounting policy Non-controlling interests are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable netassets.
$million At 1 January 2015 306 Expenses in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 38 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 2 Comprehensive loss for the year 40 Distributions 26 1 Other increases 81 At 31 December 2015 321 Expenses in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 11 Profits attributable to non-controlling interests 56 Comprehensive income for the year 45 Distributions 37 2 Other decreases 8 At 31 December 2016 321 1.
Additional investment from non-controlling interests in one of the Groups subsidiary undertakings 2.
Predominantly due to completion of sale of businesses with non-controlling interest in Pakistan and issuance of shares to non-controlling interest in Angola 29.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Accounting policy The Group operates a number of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans around the world, including defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual basis, and such amounts are charged to operating expenses.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
For funded defined benefit plans, the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
For unfunded defined benefit plans the liability recognised at the balance sheet date is the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using an interest rate equal to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have a term to maturity approximating to the term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in shareholders equity and presented in the statement of other comprehensive income in the period they arise.
The Group determines the net interest expense on the net defined liability for the year by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then net defined benefit liability, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability during the year as a result of contributions and benefit payment.
Net interest expense and other expense related to defined benefit plans are recognised in the income statement.
Significant accounting estimates and judgements There are many factors that affect the measurement of retirement benefit obligations as it requires the use of assumptions which are inherently uncertain: the sensitivity of the liabilities to changes in these assumptions is shown in the note below.
Retirement benefit obligations comprise: 2016 2015 $million $million Defined benefit plans obligation 495 422 Defined contribution plans obligation 30 23 Net obligation 525 445 Retirement benefit charge comprises: 2016 2015 $million $million Defined benefit plans 85 96 Defined contribution plans 231 203 Charge against profit note 7 316 299 The Group operates 50 defined benefit plans across its geographies, many of which are closed to new entrants who now join defined contribution arrangements.
The aim of all these plans is to give employees the opportunity to save appropriately for retirement in a way that is consistent with local regulations, taxation requirements and market conditions.
The defined benefit plans expose the Group to currency risk, interest rate risk, investment risk and actuarial risks such as longevity risk.
