NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Accounting policy Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, or present obligations arising from past events, that are not recognised because either an outflow of economic benefits is not probable or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed unless the possibility of any outflow of economic benefits in settlement is remote.
Where the Group undertakes to make a payment on behalf of its customers for guarantees issued, such as for performance bonds or as irrevocable letters of credit as part of the Groups transaction banking business for which an obligation to make a payment has not arisen at the reporting date, those are included in these financial statements as contingent liabilities.
Other contingent liabilities primarily include revocable letters of credit and bonds issued on behalf of customers to customs officials, for bids or offers and as shipping guarantees.
Commitments are where the Group has confirmed its intention to provide funds to a customer or on behalf of a customer in the form of loans, overdrafts, future guarantees whether cancellable or not or letters of credit and the Group has not made payments at the balance sheet date, those instruments are included in these financial statement as commitments.
Capital commitments are contractual commitments the Group has entered into to purchase non-financial assets.
The table below shows the contract or underlying principal amounts and risk-weighted amounts of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the balance sheet date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
1 2016 2015 $million $million Contingent liabilities Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 33,551 29,694 Other contingent liabilities 3,839 9,361 37,390 39,055 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 4,120 4,852 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 6 69 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend One year and over 38,108 45,327 Less than one year 17,547 14,104 Unconditionally cancellable 118,330 123,036 178,111 187,388 Capital commitments Contracted capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts 1,736 1 1.
$461 million of derivative notionals reported in 2015 as forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed has been restated to $69 million.
Accordingly, total reported commitments of the Group in 2015 was $187.8 billion and has been restated to $187.4 billion.
The Groups share of contingent liabilities and commitments relating to joint ventures is $246 million 2015: $286 million.
The Group has committed to purchase 16 aircraft for delivery in 2017 and 2018.
The combined purchase commitment for these orders totals a maximum of $1.7 billion.
Pre-delivery payments of $0.4 billion have been made to date in respect of these aircraft.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS Accounting policy Where appropriate, the Group recognises a provision for liabilities when it is probable that an outflow of economic resources embodying economic benefits will be required and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
The uncertainties inherent in legal and regulatory matters affect the amount and timing of any potential outflows with respect to which provisions have been established.
The Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions and is a party to regulatory matters arising in the normal course of business.
Apart from the matters described below, the Group currently considers none of these claims and proceedings as material.
2012 Settlements with certain US authorities In 2012, the Group reached settlements with certain US authorities regarding US sanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007, involving a Consent Order by the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist Order by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Fed, Deferred Prosecution Agreements DPAs with each of the Department of Justice DOJ and the New York County District Attorneys Office DANY and a Settlement Agreement with the Office of Foreign Assets Control together, the Settlements.
In addition to the civil penalties totalling $667 million, the terms of these Settlements include a number of conditions and ongoing obligations with regard to improving sanctions, Anti-Money Laundering AML and Bank Secrecy Act BSA controls such as remediation programmes, reporting requirements, compliance reviews and programmes, banking transparency requirements, training measures, audit programmes, disclosure obligations and, in connection with the NYDFS Consent Order, the appointment of an independent monitor Monitor.
These obligations are managed under a programme of work referred to as the US Supervisory Remediation Program SRP.
The SRP comprises work streams designed to ensure compliance with the remediation requirements contained in all of the Settlements.
250 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 25.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS continued On 9 December 2014, the Group announced that the DOJ, DANY and the Group had agreed to a three-year extension of the DPAs until 10 December 2017, and to the retention of a monitor to evaluate and make recommendations regarding the Groups sanctions compliance programme.
The DOJ agreement acknowledges that the Group has taken a number of steps to comply with the requirements of the original DPAs and to enhance and optimise its sanctions compliance, including the implementation of more rigorous US sanctions policies and procedures, certified staff training, hiring of senior legal and financial crime compliance staff, and recently implementing additional measures to block payment instructions for countries subject to US sanctions laws and regulations.
The Group will work closely with the authorities to make additional substantial improvements to its US sanctions programme to reach the standard required by the DPAs.
The Group is engaged with all relevant authorities to implement these programmes and meet the obligations under the Settlements.
2014 Settlement with NYDFS On 19 August 2014, the Group announced that it had reached a final settlement with the NYDFS regarding deficiencies in the AML transaction surveillance system in its New York branch the Branch.
The system, which is separate from the sanctions screening process, is one part of the Groups overall financial crime controls and is designed to alert the Branch to unusual transaction patterns that require further investigation on a post-transaction basis.
The Settlement provisions are summarised as follows: i A civil monetary penalty of $300 million ii Enhancements to the transaction surveillance system at the Branch iii A two-year extension to the term of the Monitor, which we expect to be further extended iv T he following set of temporary remediation measures, which will remain in place until the transaction surveillance systems detection scenarios are operating to a standard approved by the Monitor: a T he Branch will not, without prior approval of the NYDFS in consultation with the Monitor, open a dollar demand deposit account for any client that does not already have such an account with the Branch b R equirements for inclusion of identifying information for originators and beneficiaries of some affiliate and third-party payment messages cleared through the Branch c A restriction on dollar-clearing services for certain Hong Kong retail business clients d E nhanced monitoring of certain small and medium-sized enterprise clients in the UAE.
The Group decided to exit this business as part of its broader efforts to sharpen its strategic focus, withdrawing from or realigning non-strategic businesses, including those where increased regulatory costs undermine their economic viability.
The exit process is largely complete and, in accordance with the settlement agreement, dollar clearance restrictions were implemented effective 17 November 2014 The remit of the SRP has been expanded to cover the management of these obligations.
Other ongoing reviews The Group is cooperating with an investigation by the US authorities and the New York State Attorney General relating to possible historical violations of US sanctions laws and regulations.
In contrast to the 2012 settlements, which focused on the period before the Groups 2007 decision to stop doing new business with known Iranian parties, the ongoing investigation is focused on examining the extent to which conduct and control failures permitted clients with Iranian interests to conduct transactions through Standard Chartered Bank after 2007 and the extent towhich any such failures were shared with relevant US authorities in 2012.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA is investigating Standard Chartered Banks financial crime controls, looking at the effectiveness and governance of those controls within the correspondent banking business carried out by Standard Chartered Banks London branch, particularly in relation to the business carried on with respondent banks from outside the European Economic Area, and the effectiveness and governance ofthose controls in one of Standard Chartered Banks overseas branches and the oversight exercised at Group level over those controls.
As part of their remit to oversee market conduct, regulators and other agencies in certain markets are conducting investigations or requesting reviews into a number of areas of regulatory compliance and market conduct, including sales and trading, involving a range of financial products, and submissions made to set various market interest rates and other financial benchmarks, such as foreign exchange.
At relevant times, certain of the Groups branches and or subsidiaries were and are participants in some of those markets, in some cases submitting data to bodies that set such rates and other financial benchmarks and responding to inquiries and investigations by relevant authorities.
The Group is contributing to industry proposals to strengthen financial benchmarks processes in certain markets and continues to review its practices and processes in the light of the investigations, reviews and the industry proposals.
The Securities and Futures Commission SFC in Hong Kong has been investigating Standard Chartered Securities Hong Kong Limiteds SCSHK role as a joint sponsor of an initial public offering of China Forestry Holdings Limited, listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2009.
In October 2016, SFC informed the Group that it intends to commence action against SCSHK and other parties.
On 16 January 2017 a writ was filed by the SFC with Hong Kongs High Court.
The writ names SCSHK as one of six defendants from whom the SFC is seeking compensation foran unspecified amount of losses incurred by certain shareholders in relation to the initial public offering.
There may be financial consequences for SCSHK in connection with this matter.
