DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2016 report on remuneration The Remuneration Committee Advice to the Committee The Committee recognises and manages any conflicts of interest Committee composition when receiving views from executive directors or senior management on executive remuneration proposals and no Scheduled individual is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
meetings The Committee was assisted in its considerations by C M Hodgson Chair 6 6  LLP PwC, who were appointed by the Dr L Cheung 6 6 Committee as its remuneration advisor in November 2013 following a review of potential advisors.
It is the Committees practice to Dr B E Grote 6 6 undertake a detailed review of potential advisors every three to fouryears.
PwCs appointment was most recently extended by N Kheraj 6 6 theCommittee in January 2016 until July 2017 after a review of thequality of advice received.
J M Whitbread 6 6 PwC is a signatory to the voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to Other attendees for relevant parts of Committee meetings remuneration consulting in the UK.
PwC also provides professional include: services in the ordinary course of business including assurance, Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Head, Human Resources: advisory and tax advice to the Group.
In light of PwCs role as Global Head, Performance, Reward and Conduct: GroupCompany advisor to the Group, the Committee considered this position and Secretary: Group Chief Financial Officer: GroupChief Risk Officer: Group General Counsel.
determined that there was no conflict or potential conflict arising.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice the Committee receives is objective and independent.
The total fee paid to PwC on an Committee role and focus agreed per diem fee basis was 142,070, which includes advice tothe Committee relating to executive directors remuneration.
The Committee has oversight of all reward policies for Standard Chartered employees.
It is responsible for setting the principles Managements advice to the Committee was also supported by: andgovernance framework for all remuneration decisions.
Advice on the design and operation of the Groups share plans, In particular, the Committee: issues relating to executive directors contracts and independent non-executive directors iNEDs letters of appointment, and Determines and agrees with the Board the framework and remuneration policy advice from Clifford Chance LLP policyfor the remuneration of the Group Chairman, Group ChiefExecutive, the executive directors and other designated The provision of market data from Willis Towers Watson senior executives The Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Risk Officer Approves any proposal to award a high remuneration package provided the Committee with regular updates on finance and risk tonew recruits matters respectively.
Oversees the remuneration of material risk takers The Committee has written terms of reference that can be viewed at sc.
com termsofreference Ensures that the remuneration policy is appropriate and consistent with effective risk management Approves the Group discretionary incentives each year 96 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION The Committees key activities during 2016 Date Fixed and variable remuneration Governance, risk and other matters January Consider and approve aggregate Group 2015 discretionary Update on risk and control matters and performance incentives adjustments Review and approve variable remuneration awards for Review and finalise the 2015 Directors remuneration report executive directors, other senior management and Approve retirement arrangements for Mike Rees materialrisk takers MRTs Approve 2016 fixed remuneration for executive directors andother senior management Discuss future structure of executive directors remuneration Review i achievement of measures for LTIP awards vestingin March and ii appropriateness of the measures and targets for grants in 2016 February Review 2016 targets under the annual incentive scorecard Update on risk and control matters and performance adjustments July Consider shareholder feedback and AGM outcomes Consider feedback from regulators in respect of 2015 andany impact on future structure of executive directors remuneration cycle remuneration Discuss regulatory remuneration requirements Discuss Groups approach to all employee incentives Approve revisions to Group policies Approve remuneration arrangements for Jos Vials and retirement arrangements for Sir John Peace October Discuss Groups approach to all employee incentives Update on risk and control matters and performance including funding and how incentives are delivered adjustment Review approach to risk adjustment for Group discretionary Discuss regulatory remuneration requirements incentives Approve submission of the Groups Remuneration Policy Statement to the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA Assess Remuneration Committee effectiveness November Consider approach to the Group-wide 2016 performance, Update on risk and control matters pay and potential review Approve revisions to Group policies, including malus Consider Group 2016 discretionary incentives and andclawback structures for delivery Review risk adjustment for Group variable remuneration and approach for individual awards Review initial fixed and variable remuneration proposals for executive directors and other senior management At each scheduled meeting, the Committee also discussed the emerging regulatory and shareholder trends and reviewed analytics relating to offers, fixed and variable remuneration and performance measures.
In September, the Committee also held an informal meeting to identify and think about longer term remuneration trends, the political and external environment and how remuneration mightbe positioned to support the execution ofthe Groups strategy.
The Committee also dealt with certain less material matters onanad hoc basis through email circulation.
Shareholder voting and shareholder engagement 1 The table below shows the votes cast at the Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2016  matters.
Number of votes is equal to number of shares held www.
com 97 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The 2015 remuneration report was well supported, with Provide greater insight into regional business specific shareholders providing positive feedback on the increased remuneration issues to enhance understanding of the transparency on scorecard determination.
Investors also competitive remuneration environment and effectiveness of welcomedthe increased proportion of variable remuneration thecurrent remuneration policy.
Consideration will be given to subject to long-term performance conditions a minimum of the most effective way to give the Committee greater interaction 60 per cent.
Positive feedback was provided on the inclusion of with management, potentially through informal discussion non-financial strategic measures as part of both the 2016 annual sessions oradditional reporting to the Committee incentive scorecard and 2016-18 LTIP.
Shareholders also welcomed The Committee noted there had been a marked improvement the focus on conduct, particularly with regard to eligibility for inachieving a balance between providing the Committee with variable remuneration.
There was some feedback on the design asummary of the main issues for consideration and the details ofthe remuneration policy, such as the continued use of fixed pay tosupport such Committee discussions e. g. shorter papers allowances, and the Committee will consider this feedback when withseparate reference materials made available electronically.
the directors remuneration policy is next reviewed.
There was also Consideration will therefore continue to be given to the nature feedback on the operation of the pension allowance for executive and evolution of the information to be provided to the Committee directors, including its inclusion in fixed remuneration for the including enhanced provision of comparative market insights and purposes of calculating the maximum variable remuneration data for benchmarking purposes opportunity.
In order to address this feedback, prior to the appointment of any new executive director there will be a review Priorities for the Committee in 2017 ofthe pension allowance.
The level of pension allowance for existing executive directors will be reviewed when the directors Specific priorities for the Committee in 2017, in addition to its usual remuneration policy isnext renewed.
scheduled activities, will be: Continue to monitor political and regulatory developments Summary of the themes identified in the 2016 Committee including i the UK governmental proposals on corporate effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken governance and executive remuneration and ii the outcomes Committee members provided ongoing feedback to enhance the from the PRA and FCAs latest consultation on its remuneration Committees effectiveness.
Inaddition, as part of the effectiveness guidelines.
Asappropriate, review remuneration policy both review for the entire Board, a formal evaluation of the Committee executive directors and all employee and, in addition, any was undertaken.
Thisinvolved each Committee member providing arrangements for material risk takers MRTs.
Review proposals their views ontheCommittees effectiveness.
A summary of the to develop aFair Pay Charter themes andactions is set out below: Monitor market trends to ensure the Groups remuneration Continue to hold individual briefing sessions with each remains competitive, balanced with the necessity of robustly Committee member ahead of Committee meetings to assist managing overall costs and improving productivity members in focusing on the main issues for discussion Continue to assess the alignment of Group incentives and thedelivery of the strategy Single total figure of remuneration for the executive directors audited This table sets out salary, fixed pay allowances FPA, benefits including pensions and one-off amounts such as buy-out awards received in 2016 and annual incentives receivable in respect of 2016.
Bill Winters joined the Group on 1 May 2015 and was appointed to the Board on 10 June 2015.
The figures above include his remuneration from 1 May 2015 2.
Mike Rees remuneration is up to 30 April 2016, the date on which he stepped down fromthe Board.
His remuneration since stepping down from the Board is included intheformer executive directors remuneration section on page 103, with the exception of the FPA.
The FPA in respect of the full year was awarded at the beginning of 2016 and is included in the table above 98 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Additional information on the elements of remuneration compared favourably to the loss of $1.5 billion in 2015.
The Group inthe single total figure table audited remains well capitalised with a Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio of 13.6 per cent, however the Committee recognised that more Fixed pay allowances are paid in shares, subject to a retention work needs to be done to improve returns.
period and released over five years.
The number of shares allocated is determined by the monetary value of the allowance 3.
Assess personal performance and finalise awards and the prevailing market price of the Groups shares on the dateof allocation.
FPAs are not variable remuneration: therefore, The Committee then reviewed the individual performance of performance measures are not applicable eachexecutive director and the performance in areas of personal responsibility.
The Committee can make an adjustment to the Executive directors receive benefits, such as private medical formulaic scorecard outcome in respect of personal performance.
cover, life assurance, permanent health insurance, an allowance Consistent with the Groups treatment of all employees, the both in respect of taxation advice and a car, and for some of the Committee can make a positive adjustment to the annual incentive directors, the use of a company vehicle and driver for business if the executive directors performance is considered strong and purposes.
Executive directors occasionally use a Group car vice versa.
service for travelling and their spouses may travel to attend Board or other similar events.
If a tax liability arises on these, the The Committee noted that Bill Winters, in his first full year with Group pays this.
The 2016 benefits figures shown are in respect theGroup, demonstrated extraordinary leadership skills and of the 2015 16 tax year.
This is consistent with the reporting continued to be a strong performer, overseeing good progress ofsimilar benefits in previous years inthe execution of the strategy announced last November, despite the challenging trading environment.
Bill had been actively involved Bill Winters and Andy Halford received pension contributions and in the restructuring of the Groups portfolio by leading the cash allowances which, combined, equated to 40 per cent of liquidation of certain client positions.
His leadership had resulted salary.
Mike Rees was contractually entitled to participate in a ina refocus and restructuring of businesses both region and client defined benefit DB pension plan, with a headline entitlement of segment and functions.
He had also established an effective and one-thirtieth of salary for each year of service.
He received no cohesive management team which contained a number of strong further accrual after 13 February 2016, when he reached the new hires.
The Committee also noted that Bill had increased the normal retirement age of 60.
His DB entitlement as at focus on the Groups clients and demonstrated leadership in terms 13 February 2016 was 563,672 of conduct, as well as bringing a new focus to the approach to the Directors annual incentives in respect of 2016 are delivered Groups culture and setting a clear message in terms of how he up-front with 50 per cent paid in shares subject to a minimum expects employees to behave.
The scorecard used to determine The Committee agreed that following last years strategy review, directors annual incentives is set out on page 100.
Any award Andy Halford made a strong personal contribution to ensure the willbe subject to ex-post risk adjustment such as malus and Group executed on its new strategy during 2016.
Among the clawback for up to ten years strategic 2016 highlights were i a stronger balance sheet CET1 of The long-term incentive plan awards granted in March 2014 were 13.6 per cent remains at the top end of the Groups target range, ii due to vest in March 2017, based on performance over theyears a restructured portfolio with the liquidation and exiting of non 2014 to 2016.
Performance measures were not met see page 102 strategic risk-weighted assets and iii delivery of gross cost savings and so the awards lapsed in excess of $1 billion, which enabled the Group to increase the pace of investment through the year.
The Committee also noted Executive directors variable remuneration awarded that he demonstrated exceptional focus which had led to a number inrespect of 2016 audited of improvements and efficiencies.
Throughout the year Andy exemplified the values and conduct that the Board expects from Approach to determining individual variable itsmost senior leaders.
remunerationawards Although the Committee noted strong personal performance for At its meetings in November 2016 and January 2017, the Committee both Bill and Andy, it decided not to adjust the scorecard outcome.
considered Group performance, the performance of each executive The following table summarises the outcome of the Committees director and risk and control-related matters with input from Risk decisions on annual incentive awards for the 2016 performance year.
and other control functions, and made its determinations.
TheCommittee followed a three-step process for determining W T Winters A N Halford annual incentive awards: Scorecard outcome 45% 45% 1.
Consider eligibility Annual incentive award as a 18% 18% 1 percentage of fixed remuneration 2015: 0% 2015: 0% The Committee considered each executive directors values, maximum 40% of fixed remuneration behaviour and conduct during 2016.
Each director had exhibited an appropriate level of eligibility and was deemed to have met the Annual incentive 000 497 308 gateway requirement to be eligible for an incentive.
Fixed remuneration is defined as salary, FPA and pension, in line with regulatory requirements 2.
Evaluate performance against the Groups priorities Under the terms of his leaving agreement, Mike Rees was eligible At the end of 2016, the Committee reviewed both financial tobe considered for an annual incentive award, pro-rated for the performance and achievement against the Groups strategic period he was on the Board.
However, the Committee concluded priorities, as outlined at the start of the year in the 2016 annual that it was not appropriate to award any annual incentive to Mike incentive scorecard, published in last years remuneration report.
given the businesses for which he had management oversight prior The Groups performance in 2016 compares favourably to last year, to the restructure had continued to underperform in 2016. in market and economic conditions that continue to be challenging.
While financial returns are not where they need to be, the Committee noted that the Group had made significant progress inexecuting its strategy to stabilise and reposition the Group.
The Committee noted that underlying profit before tax PBT wasup 31 per cent on a year-on-year basis and statutory PBT www.
com 99 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Committees assessment of 2016 scorecard performance Performance Scorecard 5 measures Weighting Target Assessment of achievement outcome Financial measures 1 Total income 10% Threshold: $13,300 million $13,808 million 5% Mid-point of target range: $14,000 million Maximum award: $14,700 million 2 Operating profit 15% Threshold: $600 million $1,093 million 8% Mid-point of target range: $1,100 million Maximum award: $1,600 million 3,6 RoE plus 25% Threshold: 0.4% RoE of 0.3% 0% 4,6 CET1 underpin Mid-point of target range: 0.8% CET1 of 13.6% of 12% Maximum award: 1.2% 6 Other strategic measures Secure the 20% Improve quality of loan book as Improvement in quality of loan book.
Whilst 15% foundations evidenced by a decrease in the ongoing portfolio gross NPLs increased non-performing loan NPL flow rate year on year, they fell in the second half.
NPL inflows also slowed in the second half Progress in liquidating and exiting of 2016 identified $25 billion non-strategic assets Significant progress.
Exited more than 80% of RWA in the liquidation portfolio.
Disposed Successfully execute Groups financial non-strategic assets crime risk and other conduct-related mitigation and remediation programmes Good progress was made on financial crime and other conduct-related mitigation programmes Get lean and 15% Achieve cost-efficiency target Gross cost efficiencies of $1.2 billion, in 11% focused excess of $1 billion target Restructure in Corporate & Institutional Banking and overhaul Commercial Behind target in reducing the percentage of Banking as evidenced by a reduction RWA generated below threshold returns inthe percentage of RWA generating Retail Banking transformation well under below threshold returns way.
Expenses fell by 3% benefiting from Accelerate Retail Banking cost efficiency initiatives offset by increased transformation digitisation investment Invest and 15% Grow Private Banking and Wealth Private Bank AUM declined 4%.
Growth in 6% innovate Management assets under Hong Kong was offset by regulatory management AUM changes and actions taken to improve risk profile in other markets Up-tier Retail Banking by growing the number of Priority clients Increased share of Priority income to 39% of Retail Banking income, supported by the Increase digital penetration as addition of over 90,000 new-to-bank clients evidenced by increased adoption of Retail Banking and Corporate & Target performance achieved on digital Institutional Banking clients penetration in Retail Banking and Corporate & Institutional Banking.
Online and mobile adoption of 40% and 15% respectively in Retail Banking Total 100% 45% 1.
Total income was based on underlying operating income, excluding any fair value changes relating to gains losses on disposals, restructuring gains and losses recorded in Income and exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Groups normal business for the period 2.
Operating profit was based on underlying operating profit which excludes fair value changes relating to material one-off gains losses such as disposals, other acquisitions and corporaterelated activity, restructuring charges, which are not representative of underlying business performance and exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Groups normal business for the period 3.
RoE was based on profit attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-effected basis, for profits or losses of a capital nature, restructuring charges, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent and infrequent exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period 4.
CET1 was based on regulatory definitions and modelling assumptions as at 1 January 2016 5.
If the performance of the financial measure is within a target range, then the scorecard evaluation is 50 per cent for the respective measure.
A maximum minimum performance threshold was set for each financial performance measure.
The Committee used its judgement to determine scorecard outcomes within this range with higher than 50 per cent outcome for performance above target and lower than 50 per cent outcome for below target performance.
There is a zero outcome if performance is less than the minimum set pertarget and 100 per cent outcome if performance is more than the maximum of target 6.
Unaudited In reviewing and finalising the annual incentive scorecard outcome, the Committee was able to consider a wide range of factors including, but not limited to, broader corporate governance, risk, control and governance-related matters.
100 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Long-term incentive plan awards to be granted in March 2017 LTIP awards for the 2016 performance year will be granted to Bill theexecutive directors are incentivised in a challenging yet Winters and Andy Halford in2017with a face value of 160 per cent realisticmanner.
of fixed remuneration 4.4 million and 2.7 million respectively.
The criteria used to select the comparator group for the calculation These awards will vest in five annual tranches beginning after of the relative TSR performance measure are companies with thethird anniversary of the grant, subject to meeting the generally comparable business activities, size or geographic performance measures set out below at the end of 2019. spread to Standard Chartered or companies Standard Chartered The equal weighting of the measures provides a balanced set of competes against for investor funds and talent.
In aggregate, the metrics, giving an appropriate focus on execution of the strategy, comparator group is intended to be representative of Standard investor interests and prudent risk-taking.
The target levels for LTIP Chartereds geographic presence and business operations.
The awards are designed to be challenging but realistic.
The constituents of the comparator group shall continue tobereviewed Committees starting point for determining performance measures annually, prior to each new LTIP grant.
and target levels was to review the financial plan and the Groups TSR is measured in sterling for each company and the TSR data strategic priorities.
It also balanced the Groups current financial averaged over a month at the start and end of the three-year position and the market environment and outlook with ensuring measurement period starting from the date of grant.
Performance measures for 2017-19 executive director long-term incentive plan Gateway requirement to be met in order for awards to vest Appropriate level of individual values and conduct exhibited Performance Amount vesting Threshold Maximum measure Weighting as % of total award performance target performance target 1,2 1.
RoE in 2019 plus One third Maximum 33.3% 5% 8% 3 CET1 underpin of the Threshold 8.3% higher of 12% or the Below threshold 0% minimum regulatory requirement 4 2.
Relative TSR against One third Maximum 33.3% Median Upper quartile peer group Threshold 8.3% Below threshold 0% 3.
Strategic measures One third Maximum 33.3% Minimum 0% Successfully execute the Groups financial crime risk, remediation, and unified conduct and culture a Strengthen Performance against eachcomponent programmes foundations in risk and of the scorecard will be assessed by control including the Committee using proof points to Liquidate and exit identified non-strategic assets financial crime determine the percentage of the award Grow Private Banking Net New Money and New to remediation that may vest Wealth clients in Retail Banking Maintain leadership position on the internationalisation b Focus on clients and ofrenminbi growth, and drive Retail Banking: achieve over 40% of income from cross-bank Priority clients collaboration Deliver market share gains across Africa region Improve client satisfaction rating c I mprove efficiency, Cost discipline: deliver gross efficiency target productivity, and Retail Banking: progress towards achieving a cost service quality income ratio of c. 55% by 2020 Drive innovation through new products, solutions and d E mbed innovation, services for clients digitisation, and Grow percentage of Retail Banking clients with online analytics mobile adoption Improve Net Promoter Score within Groups employees e Invest in people, Strengthen leadership succession and improve diversity strengthen culture and as a percentage of the management population conduct 1.
RoE will be based on profit attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-effected basis, for profits or losses of a capital nature, restructuring charges, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent and infrequent exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period.
RoE would normally exclude regulatory fines but, for remuneration purposes, this would be subject to review by the Committee 2.
If RoE is between the threshold and the maximum, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis between these two points 3.
CET1 is based on regulatory definitions and modelling assumptions as at 31 December 2016.
The CET1 underpin will be dynamically set at a higher of 12 per cent and the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2019 taking into account any transition rules or material changes in regulatory rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and implemented after the start of the performance period 4.
The percentage of the award that vests subject to relative TSR depends on where the Group is ranked against its comparators TSR performance.
Minimum vesting is achieved if the Groups performance is equivalent to the median ranked company, with full vesting if the Groups performance is at least equal to the upper quartile ranked company i. e. the average of the fifthand sixth-ranked company.
Between these points, the Groups TSR is compared to that of the comparators positioned immediately above and below it and straight-line vesting applies for TSR performance between these set positions www.
com 101 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Historical long-term incentive plan awards The performance outcome for the 2014-16 LTIP and the current position on vesting for all unvested LTIP and underpin share awards outstanding from 2015 and 2016 based on current performance and share price is set out in the table below.
Assessment of the 2014-16 LTIP award: zero vesting Performance for Performance for maximum vesting 2014-16 Measure Weighting minimum vesting 30% 100% LTIP outcome Relative TSR performance One-third Median Equal to or above fifth Positioned below the against comparatorgroup median ranked firm therefore 0% vested Earnings per share growth One-third 15% 30% Negative EPS growth therefore 0% vested Return on risk-weighted One-third 1.5% 1.7% 0.4% therefore 0% vested assets three-year average Current position on the 2015-17 LTIP award: projected zero vesting Performance for Performance for maximum vesting 2015-17 LTIP Measure Weighting minimum vesting 25% 100% current assessment Relative TSR performance One-third Median Equal to or above fifth 0% vesting based on TSR against comparatorgroup performance as at 31 December 2016 Earnings per share growth One-third 15% 35% 0% vesting Return on risk-weighted One-third 1.2% 1.4% 0% vesting assets three-year average Current position on the 2016-18 LTIP award: projected partial vesting Performance for Performance for maximum vesting 2016-18 LTIP current Measure Weighting minimum vesting 25% 100% assessment 1 RoE in 2018 plus CET1 One-third 7% 10% RoE currently below underpin of 12% threshold Relative TSR performance One-third Median Upper quartile 45% vesting based on against comparatorgroup TSR performance as at 31 December 2016 Strategic measures One-third Target ranges set for strategic measures linked to the Currently tracking for on business strategy target performance 1.
RoE will be based on profit attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-effected basis, for profits or losses of a capital nature, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent and infrequent exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period.
Thisincludes material one-off changes to valuation methodologies to align with market practice and restructuring charges.
RoE would normally exclude regulatory fines but, forremuneration purposes, this would be subject to review by the Committee The comparator group for the TSR measure in the 2016-18 and 2017-19 LTIP awards is set out below: ANZ Barclays HSBC Oversea Chinese Banking United Overseas Bank Corporation Banco Santander Citigroup ICBC Socit Gnrale Bank of America Credit Suisse ICICI Standard Bank Bank of China DBS Group JPMorgan Chase State Bank of India Bank of East Asia Deutsche Bank KB Financial Group UBS 102 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Former executive directors remuneration In addition, the Committee exercised its discretion in accordance with the rules of the share plans, under which Mike held unvested Payments for loss of office audited awards, and determined that he should be treated as an eligible Mike Rees retired from the Board on 30 April 2016.
The leaver and, as such, be allowed to retain any unvested share remuneration he received when he was an executive director awards.
Awards continue to vest over the original vesting periods is set out in the single total figure table.
Specific details on the and remain subject to the application of malus and clawback and remuneration arrangements on leaving for Mike were included in the satisfaction of the performance measures.
This discretion was the announcement to the London Stock Exchange of 7 January exercised by the Committee consistent with the treatment for others 2016.
Mike Rees received payments in the period from the date retiring from the Group.
The discretion has been exercised and heceased to be an executive director, in accordance with his reported in line with the requirements of The Stock Exchange of contract of employment, as set out below: Hong Kong Limited.
A M G Rees Payments to former executive directors audited Date ceased to be an executive director 30 April 2016 Jaspal Bindra stepped down from the Board during 2015.
Period payments made until 31 December 2016 Hereceived payments for the period from the date he ceased tobean executive director until 25 February 2016, in accordance Salary received 650,000 withhis contract of employment and 12-month notice period.
1 Fixed pay allowance 0 From1 January 2016 to 25 February 2016 Jaspal received salary of$129,932, benefits of $14,868 and a pension allowance of 2 Benefits 44,600 $63,367, in addition to a statutory long service payment of $33,948, consistent with Hong Kong law.
Pension 0 In addition, Jaspal Bindra, Peter Sands and V Shankar were Total 694,600 awarded shares under the 2014-16 LTIP in March 2014, whose vesting was dependent on performance measures over the three 1.
This was awarded at the beginning of 2016 and is included in the single figure table on years ending 31 December 2016, which were not met.
These page 98 awards will not vest.
In line with market practice, the Group paid for appropriate professional legal fees incurred by Mike Rees in respect of finalising his retirement arrangements, which amounted to 7,500.
These amounts are included in the benefits figures above Executive directors share interests including share awards Scheme interests awarded, exercised and lapsed during theyear audited The following table shows the changes in share interests.
Employees, including executive directors, are not permitted to engage in any personal hedging strategies with regards to their Standard Chartered PLC shares, including hedging against the share price of Standard Chartered PLC shares.
For the LTIP 2016-18 awards granted to Bill Winters and Andy Halford on 4 May 2016, the share price at grant was 5.56 and the face values were as follows: Bill Winters: 5.5 million: AndyHalford: 3.3 million.
Performance measures apply to LTIP 2016-18.
The share price at grant was calculated as the higher of the five-day average closing price and the closing price onthe day before the grant date 2.
On 21 March 2016, Andy Halford exercised deferred share awards over a total of 13,068 shares.
The share price on the date of exercise was 4.89, and the gains on exercise were 63,903.
On 11 March 2016, Mike Rees exercised share awards over 394,481 shares and on 21 March 2016 over 70,340 shares.
The share price on the dates of exercise was 4.64 and 4.89 respectively, with gains on exercise of 1,830,392 and 343,963 respectively.
The five-day average closing prices before the dates of exercise were 4.73 and 4.71 respectively 3. Dividend equivalent shares are awarded on vesting 4.
All figures are as at 31 December 2016 or on the retirement of an executive director i. e. 30 April 2016 for Mike Rees.
There were no changes to any executive directors scheme interests in ordinary shares between 31 December 2016 and 23 February 2017 104 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Shareholdings and share interests audited The shareholding requirement is currently expressed as a number of shares and is set as: Executive directors are required to maintain a shareholding as determined by the Committee.
Executive directors must build up 250,000 shares for the Group Chief Executive their shareholding over a reasonable timeframe from the date of 150,000 shares for the Group Chief Financial Officer appointment as an executive director or, if later, from the date ofany change to the terms of the shareholding requirement.
In addition to the shareholding requirement, executive directors Shares that count towards the requirement are beneficially hold a considerable number of shares as part of the FPA shares owned shares including any vested share awards subject which are held and released over five years.
shares are not counted for the purposes of the above .
1 The following table summarises the executive directors shareholdings and share interests.
Shareholdings Share awards Actual Unvested Unvested shareholding share awards share awards Shareholding requirement Vested but not subject to subject to Shares held as a percentage in number Alignment to unexercised performance performance 2,3 4 beneficially of salary of shares requirement share awards measures measures 5 W T Winters 430,370 248% 250,000 On track 944,560 992,781 A N Halford 341,794 267% 150,000 Met 27,480 784,945 Former directors 6 A M G Rees 668,634 N A N A N A 70,363 203,714 1.
All figures are as at 31 December 2016 or on the retirement of an executive director, unless stated otherwise.
There were no changes to any executive directors interests in ordinary shares between 31 December 2016 and 23 February 2017.
No director had either i an interest in Standard Chartered PLCs preference shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking ofthe Group or ii any corporate interests in Standard Chartered PLCs ordinary shares 2.
The beneficial interests of directors and connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out above.
The executive directors do not have any non-beneficial interests in the Companys shares.
None of the executive directors used ordinary shares as collateral for any loans 3.
Some shares have been awarded to deliver the executive directors fixed pay allowance.
Any FPA shares held by each executive director do not count towards their shareholding requirement until such shares are released.
The levels of unreleased FPA shares as of 31 December 2016 are: Bill Winters: 183,125: and Andy Halford: 83,254 4.
Shareholding as a percentage of salary is calculated using the closing share price on 31 December 2016 6.636 5.
Bill Winters joined the Board on 10 June 2015 and will meet his shareholding requirements within a reasonable period of time 6.
Mike Rees stepped down from the Board on 30 April 2016.
Figures shown are as at 30 April 2016 Shareholder dilution All awards vesting under the Groups share plans are satisfied by the The Group has two employee benefit trusts that are administered by an independent trustee and which hold ordinary shares to transfer of existing shares or, where appropriate, the issuance of new meetvarious obligations under the Groups share plans.
The Groups share plans contain monitored limits that govern executive director is within the class of beneficiary of these trusts, both the aggregate amount of awards that may be granted and the they are deemed, for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, amount of shares that may be issued to satisfy anysubsequent tohave an interest in the trusts shares.
These limits are in line with those stated in the Investment Associations Principles of Remuneration and the terms Details of the trusts shareholdings are set out in note 27 to the financial of our listing on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
statements on page 255 Service contracts for executive directors Copies of the executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Groups registered office.
These contracts have rolling 12-month notice periods and the dates of the executive directors service contracts are shown below.
Executive directors are permitted to hold non-executive directorship positions in other organisations but no more than one position with a FTSE 100 company.
Where such appointments are agreed with the Board, the executive directors may retain any fees payable for their services.
The following executive directors served as non-executive directors elsewhere and received fees or other benefits for the period covered by this report.
Date of Standard Chartered Details of any non-executive Fees retained for any non-executive 1 employment contract directorship directorship local currency W T Winters 8 April 2016 Novartis International AG CHF 250,000 A N Halford 10 February 2016 Marks and Spencer Group plc GBP 85,000 Former directors A M G Rees 7 January 2010 1.
Date the latest employment contract was entered into, not date of taking up employment with the Group www.
com 105 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2016 Group total variable remuneration Incentives trend 2012 to 2016 Determining 2016 discretionary incentives 2016 $1,039m In determining 2016 incentives, the Committee considered 2015 $993m thefollowing factors: 2014 $1,098m 2016 performance measured using the balanced scorecard That the historical remuneration levels of the Group have 2013 $1,208m generally been below competitive levels in the markets in which 2012 $1,425m itoperates and that this position has deteriorated further over thepast few years.
This has in part resulted in a high level of voluntary attrition operated across the Group.
Thechanges increase transparency and strengthen the link between achievements, demonstration of The need to reposition remuneration in the Group to contribute values and the level ofincentive.
Individual incentives are linked to toimproving shareholder returns, whilst enabling the Group the Group scorecard, the individuals business area scorecard and toensure that good performers are paid competitively individual performance.
The total annual incentives of the Group Any material risk events that may have impacted the Group have reduced over the past five years by 27 per cent.
in2016 The total incentives figure for 2016 includes i the 2017-19 LTIP In determining the Groups total incentives, the Committee has awards, thevalue of which will be determined by Group used its judgement to establish the right balance between the performance over the period 2017 to 2019 and ii incentive awards financial performance of the Group and its ability toattract and made to individuals who left the Group during 2016 as part of retain talent that will drive the Groups strategy.
In 2016, the restructuring, who were in service for at least nine months of Committee took into account Group, business and regional theyear.
scorecards which were aligned to the Groups strategy.
The Committee also took into account a range of risk-adjusted metrics Allocation of the Groups earnings between stakeholders and advice from both the Group Chief Financial Officer and Group When considering Group variable remuneration the Committee Chief Risk Officer on Group performance.
considers shareholders concerns about relative expenditure on On this basis, the Committee determined that the Group incentives pay and makes the determination on the allocation of earnings to for 2016 should be $1,039 million.
This represents an increase of expenditure on pay carefully.
The Committee concluded that the 5 per cent on 2015.
The Committee concluded that any lower Group has approached this allocation in a disciplined way over the amount would present a material risk to the ability of the Group to past five years.
The table below shows the distribution of earnings make appropriate and competitive awards.
At the start of 2016, between stakeholders.
Staff costs include redundancy and other restructuring expenses.
See page 213 for more detail The Committee has included the amount of corporate tax, including the bank levy, because it is a significant payment and illustrates the Groups contribution through the tax system.
106 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Group performance versus the Group Chief Executives remuneration Summary of performance The graph below shows the Groups TSR performance on a cumulative basis over the past eight years alongside that of the FTSE 100 and peer banks, and the table below shows the historic levels of remuneration of the Group Chief Executive.
The FTSE 100 provides abroad comparison group against which shareholders may measure their relative returns.
Percentage growth of TSR since the end of 2008 250 200 150 100 50 January 2009 January 2010 January 2011 January 2012 January 2013 January 2014 January 2015 January 2016 January 2017 Standard Chartered FTSE100 Comparator Median Source: Thomson Reuters 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Single figure of total remuneration 000 P A Sands CEO until 10 June 2015 7,135 7,970 7,779 6,951 4,378 3,093 1,290 W T Winters 8,399 3,392 Annual incentive as a percentage of maximum opportunity P A Sands 64% 70% 70% 63% 50% 0% 0% W T Winters 0% 45% Vesting of LTIP awards as a percentage of maximum P A Sands 81% 90% 90% 77% 33% 10% 0% 0% W T Winters The percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive and all employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration between the 2015 and 2016 performance years for the Group Chief Executive and the wider employee population.
1,2 3,4 CEO All employees Remuneration element % change % change Salaries 0% 5 % Taxable benefits 36% 2% Annual incentive N A 5% 1.
No annual incentive was paid to the Group Chief Executive in respect of 2015 performance 2.
The Group Chief Executive joined the Group on 1 May 2015, and his 2015 salary and taxable benefits in respect of 2015 have been annualised.
His 2015 taxable benefits figure does not include certain benefits received during 2015 but which are shown on year end tax returns as being taxable as part of the 2015 16 tax year.
There has been no change in eligibility between 2015 and 2016 for core benefits, such as car, medical cover, life assurance etc.
For the all employees group, the taxable benefits for UK employees have been used, as it was deemed the most appropriate comparison for the Group Chief Executive given the varied requirements in the provision of benefits across different jurisdictions 4.
For the all employees group, the salary and incentives data for the global employee population who are eligible to receive discretionary annual incentives has been used, asthose employees have an element of incentive awards www.
com 107 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT How the remuneration policy will be implemented for executive directors in 2017 The table below summarises the remuneration policy for executive directors and how that policy will be implemented in 2017.
Element Implementation in 2017 Salary Executive director salaries will be unchanged from 2016: Bill Winters: 1,150,000 Andy Halford: 850,000 Fixed pay Bill Winters: 1,150,000, unchanged from 2016. allowances Andy Halford: 519,000.
Effective 2017, Andys FPA is expressed in GBP rather than USD in order to align all elements ofexecutive directors remuneration into a single currency.
The amount was converted into GBP using the 2016 average exchange rate.
Pension Unchanged from 2016: 40 per cent ofsalary.
If any new executive director is appointed prior tothe adoption of a new directors remuneration policy, there will be areview of the pension allowance.
Benefits Will be provided in accordance with the remuneration policy.
Annual For awards in respect of 2017, the maximum annual incentive opportunity will be 80 per cent of fixed remuneration defined incentive as salary, FPA and pension.
The maximum limit on what variable remuneration can be paid is set by regulation and this limit includes pension.
The annual incentive awarded in respect of 2017 willbe determined based on a balanced scorecard, shown on page 109.
LTIP For awards in respect of 2017, the maximum LTIP opportunity will be 120 per cent of fixed remuneration defined as salary, FPA and pension.
The maximum limit on what variable remuneration can be paid is set by regulation and this limit includespension.
The LTIP awarded in respect of 2017 will be granted in 2018.
This award will vest subject to performance measures determined by the Committee and disclosed in the 2017 Directors remuneration report, prior to grant.
108 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 2017 annual incentive scorecard The measures in the scorecard have been determined to be 50 per cent of the annual incentive scorecard is comprised solely aligned with the Groups strategy.
The targets are set annually by offinancial measures.
Some of the strategic measures are also the Committee and take into account the Groups annual financial financial in nature such as i non-performing loan rate, plan and its priorities for the next few years within the context of the ii cost-efficiency and iii income return on risk-weighted assets.
TheCommittee considers such targets to The Committee will review the scorecard annually and may vary be commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the themeasures, weightings and targets each year.
interests of the Group to disclose them before the end of the financial year.
Targets will be disclosed in the 2017 annual report and accounts alongside the actual level of performance achieved.
STEP 1: GATEWAY REQUIREMENT TO BE MET IN ORDER TOBE ELIGIBLE FOR ANY ANNUAL INCENTIVE Appropriate level of individual values and conduct exhibited during the course of the year STEP 2: MEASUREMENT OF PERFORMANCE AGAINST FINANCIAL ANDOTHER STRATEGIC MEASURES Financial measures Weighting Target 1 Total income 10.0% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively 2 Operating profit 10.0% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively 3 4 RoE plus CET1 underpin 20.0% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively of the higher of 12% or the minimum regulatory requirement Improve customer 10.0% Increase net Transaction Banking Operating Account and Retail Banking deposits.
Target deposits to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively 5 Other strategic measures Weighting Target Focus on clients and 12.5% Grow Private Banking and Wealth Management Net New Money growth, and drive Improve client satisfaction rating cross-bank collaboration Grow Commercial Banking and Corporate & Institutional Banking client bases, and increase the proportion of Priority clients in Retail Banking Strengthen foundations in 10.0% Improve quality of loan book as evidenced by a decrease in the non-performing loan risk and control flowrate Successfully execute the Groups financial crime risk and remediation programmes Improve efficiency, 10.0% Achieve cost-efficiency target productivity and service Achieve income return on risk-weighted assets target quality Improve client on-boarding turnaround time Embed innovation, 7.5% Increase Corporate & Institutional Banking sales via e-platforms digitisation and analytics Increase digital penetration as evidenced by increased online mobile adoption of Retail Banking and Commercial Banking clients Drive innovation through new products, solutions and services for clients Invest in people, 10.0% Improve diversity as a percentage of the management population strengthen culture and Measurable progress in developing a unified conduct and culture programme conduct STEP 3: ASSESSMENT OF PERSONAL PERFORMANCE The Committee reviews the individual performance of each executive director and the performance in the areas of their personal responsibility.
Consistent with the Groups treatment of all employees, the Committee can make a positive adjustment to the annual incentive if the executive directors performance is considered strong and vice versa, if appropriate 1.
Total income is based on underlying operating income, excluding any fair value changes relating to gains losses on disposals, restructuring gains and losses recorded in Income and exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Groups normal business for the period 2.
Underlying operating profit excludes fair value changes relating to material one-off gains losses such as disposals, other acquisitions and corporate-related activity, restructuring charges, which are not representative of underlying business performance and exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Groups normal business for the period.
Underlying profit would normally exclude regulatory fines but, for remuneration purposes, this would be subject to review by the Committee 3.
RoE would normally exclude regulatory fines but, for remuneration purposes, this would be subject to review by the Committee 4.
The CET1 underpin will be dynamically set at the higher of 12% and the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2019 taking into account any transition rules or material changes in regulatory rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and implemented after the start of the performance period 5.
Aligned to internal scorecards measuring in-year progress on multi-year initiatives www.
com 109 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration arrangements for the Chairman and in relocating to the UK in order to take up his appointment.
independent non-executive directors Consistent with market practice, the letter of appointment has asix-month notice period.
Single figure of remuneration of the Chairman and independent non-executive directors audited The iNEDs were paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
UK-based iNEDs were able to use up to 100 per cent In October 2016, Jos Vials joined the Board as Chairman of their monthly post-tax base fees to acquire shares in the Group Designate and was appointed as the Chairman with effect from MonthlyShare Purchase Scheme.
His annual fee is 1,250,000, and he receives benefits including access to a car and driver for business purposes, The tables below show the fees and benefits received by the private healthcare and life assurance.
He also received assistance Chairman and iNEDs in 2016.
Jos Vials joined the Board on 3 October 2016 2.
Naguib Kheraj was appointed Deputy Chair on 1 December 2016 3.
David Conner was appointed a member of the Combined United States Operations Risk Committee US Risk Committee effective 1 July 2016.
The US Risk Committee is a Committee of the Court of Standard Chartered Bank, for which an annual fee of 20,000 ispayable per annum 4.
Sir John Peace stepped down from the Board on 1 December 2016.
His annual fee was 1,150,000, paid partly in cash and partly in shares.
He was also provided with a car and driver forbusiness purposes, and other benefits 5.
Simon Lowth and Dr Lars Thunell stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 July 2016 and 31 January 2016 respectively 6.
The iNEDs are required to hold shares with a nominal value of $1,000.
All the directors, other than Dr Kurt Campbell, have met this requirement.
Shareholders approved a resolution todisapply the shareholding qualification in relation to Dr Kurt Campbell at the Companys AGM in May 2014.
This was in connection with the terms of the then proposed appointment of Dr Kurt Campbells wife to the Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve System 7.
No director had either i an interest in the Companys preference shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking of the Group or ii any corporate interests in the Companys ordinary shares.
All figures are as at 31 December 2016 or on the retirement of a director unless otherwise stated 8.
The directors do not have any non-beneficial interests in the Companys shares.
None of the directors used ordinary shares as collateral for any loans 110 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Additional information to explain the single total Fees audited figure table for the Chairman and independent nonThe iNEDs fees were lastreviewed in 2013 and were set based executive directors onthe duties, time commitment and contribution expected and Benefits primarily consist of travel and subsistence costs in relation alignment to fees paidto iNEDs in banks and other companies to Board and Committee meetings and other Board-related events ofasimilar scale andcomplexity.
which are taxable in the UK.
Spouses may also accompany the The following fees were paid to the iNEDs in 2016: directors to meetings.
These costs and any associated tax costs are paid by the Group.
The iNEDs 2016 benefits figures shown are 000 in respect of the 2015 16 tax year.
This provides consistency with As at As at 1 January 1 January the reporting of similar benefits in previous years and with those 2017 2016 received by executive directors.
Board member 100 100 In order to take up his appointment, the Chairman received relocation benefits and the reimbursement of costs.
These were Additional responsibilities similar to those offered to employees who join from an overseas 1 Deputy Chair 75 country.
The total cost of these benefits was 37,673 and this is included in the table on page 110.
This amount includes temporary Senior Independent Director 40 40 accommodation on arrival into the UK 21,000 and shipment of personal goods and possessions from the United States 11,500.
Chair 70 70 The estimated tax on the provision of relocation benefits 31,000 Audit Committee was borne by the Group.
Board Risk Committee Exercise of share awards by the former Chairman audited Chair 60 60 Board Financial Crime Risk Committee From his appointment in 2009 until the end of 2013, part of Sir John Peaces total fee was delivered in an allocation of restricted Brand, Values and Conduct Committee shares.
During 2016, Sir John exercised a number of vested Remuneration Committee awards.
Onexercise, shares were sold to cover the associated tax Membership 30 30 liabilities, with the balance of the shares retained.
Audit Committee Number of Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Number unvested of shares Number shares Board Risk Committee under of shares under 1 Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Date of grant award exercised Date of exercise award Remuneration Committee 11 Mar 2013 7,295 7,295 11 Mar 2016 Membership of Governance and 15 15 17 Dec 2013 10,056 10,056 19 Dec 2016 NominationCommittee 1.
The share price on the dates of exercise and total gains were 4.64 and 33,849 11 March 1.
A new Deputy Chairman fee of 75,000 was introduced effective 1 December 2016 2016 and 6.71 and 67,476 19 December 2016 respectively How the remuneration policy will be implemented for The Committee exercised its discretion in accordance with the independent non-executive directors in 2017 rulesof the share plan, under which Sir John held unvested awards, and determined that he should be treated as an eligible There are no proposed changes to how the policy will be leaver, and as such be allowed to retain the share award which implemented in 2017. vested 16 days after his retirement from the Board.
This discretion was exercised by the Committee consistent with the treatment for Independent non-executive directors letters of others retiring from the Group.
The discretion has been exercised appointment in 2017 and reported inline with the requirements of The Stock Exchange The iNEDs have letters of appointment, which are available for of Hong Kong Limited.
inspection at the Groups registered office.
Details of the iNEDs appointments are set out onpages 57 to 59. iNEDs are appointed for a period of one year, unless terminated earlier by either party with three months written notice.
