NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Accounting policy Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, or present obligations arising from past events, that are not recognised because either an outflow of economic benefits is not probable or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed unless the possibility of any outflow of economic benefits in settlement is remote.
Where the Group undertakes to make a payment on behalf of its customers for guarantees issued, such as for performance bonds or as irrevocable letters of credit as part of the Groups transaction banking business for which an obligation to make a payment has not arisen at the reporting date, those are included in these financial statements as contingent liabilities.
Other contingent liabilities primarily include revocable letters of credit and bonds issued on behalf of customers to customs officials, for bids or offers and as shipping guarantees.
Commitments are where the Group has confirmed its intention to provide funds to a customer or on behalf of a customer in the form of loans, overdrafts, future guarantees whether cancellable or not or letters of credit and the Group has not made payments at the balance sheet date, those instruments are included in these financial statement as commitments.
Capital commitments are contractual commitments the Group has entered into to purchase non-financial assets.
The table below shows the contract or underlying principal amounts and risk-weighted amounts of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the balance sheet date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
1 2016 2015 $million $million Contingent liabilities Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 33,551 29,694 Other contingent liabilities 3,839 9,361 37,390 39,055 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 4,120 4,852 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 6 69 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend One year and over 38,108 45,327 Less than one year 17,547 14,104 Unconditionally cancellable 118,330 123,036 178,111 187,388 Capital commitments Contracted capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts 1,736 1 1.
$461 million of derivative notionals reported in 2015 as forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed has been restated to $69 million.
Accordingly, total reported commitments of the Group in 2015 was $187.8 billion and has been restated to $187.4 billion.
The Groups share of contingent liabilities and commitments relating to joint ventures is $246 million 2015: $286 million.
The Group has committed to purchase 16 aircraft for delivery in 2017 and 2018.
The combined purchase commitment for these orders totals a maximum of $1.7 billion.
Pre-delivery payments of $0.4 billion have been made to date in respect of these aircraft.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS Accounting policy Where appropriate, the Group recognises a provision for liabilities when it is probable that an outflow of economic resources embodying economic benefits will be required and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
The uncertainties inherent in legal and regulatory matters affect the amount and timing of any potential outflows with respect to which provisions have been established.
The Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions and is a party to regulatory matters arising in the normal course of business.
Apart from the matters described below, the Group currently considers none of these claims and proceedings as material.
2012 Settlements with certain US authorities In 2012, the Group reached settlements with certain US authorities regarding US sanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007, involving a Consent Order by the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist Order by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Fed, Deferred Prosecution Agreements DPAs with each of the Department of Justice DOJ and the New York County District Attorneys Office DANY and a Settlement Agreement with the Office of Foreign Assets Control together, the Settlements.
In addition to the civil penalties totalling $667 million, the terms of these Settlements include a number of conditions and ongoing obligations with regard to improving sanctions, Anti-Money Laundering AML and Bank Secrecy Act BSA controls such as remediation programmes, reporting requirements, compliance reviews and programmes, banking transparency requirements, training measures, audit programmes, disclosure obligations and, in connection with the NYDFS Consent Order, the appointment of an independent monitor Monitor.
These obligations are managed under a programme of work referred to as the US Supervisory Remediation Program SRP.
The SRP comprises work streams designed to ensure compliance with the remediation requirements contained in all of the Settlements.
