STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 12.
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE Accounting policy The Group measures earnings per share on an underlying basis.
This differs from earnings defined in IAS 33 Earnings per share.
Underlying earnings is profit loss attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted for profits or losses of a capital nature: amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent: and other infrequent and or exceptional transactions that are significant or material inthecontext of the Groups normal business earnings for the period.
The table below provides the basis of underlying earnings.
2016 2015 $million $million Loss for the year attributable to equity holders 191 2,196 Non-controlling interest 56 2 Dividends payable on preference shares and AT1 classified as equity 231 166 Loss for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders 478 2,360 Items normalised: Restructuring 855 1,845 Gains arising on repurchase of subordinated liabilities 84 Goodwill impairment Included within Other impairment 166 362 Net gain on business disposed held for sale Included within Other operating income 253 218 Other items 13 1 Tax on normalised items included within Taxation 95 179 Credit and funding valuation methodology adjustment included within Net trading income 863 Own credit adjustment included within net trading income 495 Underlying profit loss 111 169 Basic Weighted average number of shares millions 3,291 2,568 Diluted Weighted average number of shares millions 3,305 2,568 Basic loss per ordinary share cents 14.5 91.9 2 Diluted loss per ordinary share cents 14.5 91.9 Underlying basic earnings loss per ordinary share cents 3.4 6.6 Underlying diluted earnings loss per ordinary share cents 3.4 6.6 1.
No tax is included in respect of the impairment of goodwill as no tax relief is available 2.
The impact of any diluted options has been excluded from this amount as required by IAS 33 Earnings per share 13.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Classification and measurement Accounting policy The Group classifies its financial assets into the following measurement categories: financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity: or available-for-sale.
Financial liabilities are classified as either held at fair value through profit or loss or at amortised cost.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition.
The following details the approach for the categories: a Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss: This category has two sub-categories: Financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
A financial asset or liability is classified as held for trading if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term, or forms part of a portfolio of financial instruments which are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking or is a derivative excluding qualifying hedging relationships Designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value through profit or loss when: The designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities on a different basis for example, the Group may designate certain fixed rate loans and receivables that are managed with derivative interest rate swaps A group of financial assets and or liabilities is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis for example, the Group may designate issued debt to fund a portfolio of trading assets and liabilities that are all managed on a fair value basis The assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and such derivatives are required to be recognised separately b Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and it is expected that apart from credit deterioration substantially all of the initial investment will be recovered.
