NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON LOANS AND ADVANCES AND OTHER CREDIT RISK PROVISIONS Accounting policy Significant accounting estimates and judgements The calculation of impairment involves key judgements to be made by the credit risk management team.
For individually significant financial assets, Group Special Asset Management GSAM will consider all judgements that have an impact on the expected future cash flows of the asset.
These include: the business prospects, industry and geo-political climate of the customer, quality of realisable value of collateral, the Groups legal position relative to other claimants and any renegotiation forbearance options The difference between the loan carrying amount and the discounted expected future cash flows will result in the impairment amount.
The future cash flow calculation involves significant judgements and estimates.
As new information becomes available and further negotiations forbearance measures are taken the estimates of the future cash flows will be revised, and will have an impact on the future cash flow analysis For financial assets which are not individually significant, such as the Retail portfolio or small business loans, which comprise a large number of homogenous loans that share similar characteristics, statistical estimates and techniques are used, as well as credit scoring analysis.
These techniques use models which analyse historical repayment and default rates over a time horizon.
Where various models are used, judgement is required to analyse the available information provided and selects the appropriate model or combination of models to use.
Further judgement is required to determine overlays on the models described below in Retail with the aim of reasonable and supportable impairment allowance for the portfolio being provided Objective evidence of impairment The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events occurring after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event, and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
The Group considers the following factors in assessing objective evidence of impairment: Whether the counterparty is in default of principal or interest payments When a counterparty files for bankruptcy protection or the local equivalent and this would avoid or delay discharge of its obligation Where the Group files to have the counterparty declared bankrupt or files a similar order in respect of a credit obligation Where the Group consents to a restructuring of the obligation, resulting in a diminished financial obligation, demonstrated by a material forgiveness of debt or postponement of scheduled payments Where the Group sells a credit obligation at a material credit-related economic loss: or where there is observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows of a group of financial assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with specific individual financial assets Assets at amortised cost Corporate & Institutional Banking and Commercial Banking The assessment of the credit risk of corporate and commercial loans is done by the Credit Risk department, based upon counterparty information they receive from various sources including relationship managers and on external market information.
Once a loan starts to exhibit credit deterioration, it will move along the credit grading scale in the performing book and when it is classified as Credit Grade CG 12, the credit assessment and oversight of the loan will normally be performed by Group Special Assets Management GSAM.
Where GSAMs assessment indicates that a loan is impaired, GSAM will calculate an Individual Impairment Provision IIP based on estimated cash flows revised to reflect anticipated recoveries.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loan and receivable or a held-to-maturity asset has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
If a loan and receivable or held-to-maturity asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment on the basis of an instruments fair value using an observable market price.
The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash flows of a collateralised financial asset reflects the cash flows that may result from foreclosure, less cost for obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
Further details on collateral held by the Group are discussed in the Risk review and Capital review on page 162.
In cases where the impairment assessment indicates that there will be a loss of principal, the loan is graded a CG14 while other impaired loans will be graded CG13.
Loans graded CG13-CG14 are classified as Non Performing Loans.
The performing loan portfolio is subject to a Portfolio Impairment Provision PIP to cover latent losses i. e. those that are not specifically identified but are known, by experience, to be present in any performing portfolio.
The PIP is based on models using risk sizing including probability of default and loss given default, environmental parameters and adjustment overlays.
The calculation of the PIP uses regulatory expected credit loss ECL models: however as the regulatory ECL models are more punitive than the incurred loss model under IAS 39, adjustments are made to align the calculation with IFRS.
214 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 8.
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON LOANS AND ADVANCES AND OTHER CREDIT RISK PROVISIONS continued Retail Banking An Individual Impairment Provision IIP is recognised for Retail Banking when an account meets a defined threshold condition in terms of overdue payments contractual impairment or meets other objective conditions as described above in the assessment factors.
The threshold conditions are set at the point where empirical evidence suggests that the client is unlikely to meet their contractual obligations or a loss of principal is expected.
A credit obligation in Retail Banking clients portfolio that is more than 150 Days Past Due DPD or, a credit obligation secured by Wealth Management products that is 90 Days Past Due, is recognized as impaired and IIP is provided for accordingly.
In addition, the credit account is recognised as impaired immediately if the borrower files for bankruptcy or other equivalent forbearance programme, or the borrower is deceased, or the business is closed in case of small business clients, or the borrowers other credit accounts with Standard Chartered Bank are impaired.
Retail Banking PIP is computed on performing loans no contractual impairment, using Expected Loss EL rates, to determine latent losses inthe portfolio the EL utilises probability of default and loss given default inherent within the portfolio of impaired loans or receivables and the historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the Group.
For defaulted yet non-impaired accounts greater than 90 days past due full EL is used, while for non-defaulted accounts, a three-month emergence period is applied.
An adjustment isadded to PIP calculation to take into the account instances where the EL-based PIP is deemed imprecise due to under-prediction or over-prediction of EL by underlying models.
An overlay in the form of Special Risk adjustment SRA is added to the EL-based PIP calculation totake into account instances where EL-based PIP is deemed insufficient to incorporate the impact of a specific credit event.
An overlay in theform of Business Cycle Adjustment BCA is taken to account for the impact of cyclical volatility in operating environment, which is not adequately covered in the underlying models.
Write-off and reversal of impairment To the extent a loan is irrecoverable, it is written off against the related provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed, it is decided that there is no realistic probability of recovery and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement during the period.
Forborne loans A forborne loan is where a concession has been made to the contractual terms of a loan in response to a customers financial difficulties.
In certain circumstances, the Group may renegotiate client loans.
Loans that are renegotiated for commercial reasons, such as when a client had a credit rating upgrade, are not included as part of forborne loans because they are not indicative of any credit stress or event.
Forbearance strategies assist clients who are temporarily in financial distress and are unable to meet their original contractual repayment terms.
Forbearance can be initiated by the client, the Group or a third party including government-sponsored programmes or a conglomerate ofcredit institutions and includes debt restructuring such as a new repayment schedule, payment deferrals, tenor extensions and interest onlypayments.
Loans that are renegotiated on terms that are not consistent with those readily available in the market and or where we have granted a concession compared to the original terms of the loans, are considered for impairment.
If the terms of the renegotiation are such that, where the present value of the new cash flows is lower than the present value of the original cash flows, the loan would be considered to be impaired and, at a minimum, a discount provision would be raised and the loan is disclosed as Loans subject to forbearance impaired, which is a subset of impaired loans.
All other loans that have been subject to a forbearance contract amendment, but which are not considered impaired not classified as CG 13 or 14, are classified as Forborne not impaired previously disclosed as other renegotiated loans.
If a loan enters the forbearance process and the terms are substantially modified, the original loan will be derecognised, and a new loan will berecognised.
Once a loan is subject to forbearance, the loan continues to be reported as such, until the loan is repaid or written off.
For Retail Banking clients, all forborne loans are managed within a separate portfolio.
If such loans subsequently become past due, charge-off and IIPis accelerated to 90 days past due for unsecured loans and automobile finance or 120 days past due for secured loans.
The accelerated loss rates applied to this portfolio are derived from experience with other forborne loans, rather than the Retail Banking clients portfolio as a whole, torecognise the greater degree of inherent risk.
For Corporate & Institutional Banking, Commercial Banking and Private Banking clients, forbearance is applied on a case-by-case basis and isnot subject tobusiness-wide programmes.
In some cases, the asset is derecognised and a new loan is granted as part of the restructure.
Inothers, thecontractual terms and repayment of the existing loans are changed or extended for example, interest only for a period.
Loans classified assubject to forbearance are managed by GSAM and are kept under close review to assess the clients ability to adhere to the restructured repayment strategy and to identify any events that could result in a deterioration in the clients ability to repay.
Forborne loans are disclosed by client segments on pages 153 to 155.
Further details on the application of these policies are set out in the Risk review on page 155. www.
