STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Dividend and interest payment dates Ordinary shares The Board has taken the decision to pay no final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Preference shares 1st half yearly dividend 2nd half yearly dividend 3 7 8 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2017 1 October 2017 1 8 4 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2017 1 October 2017 6.409 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2017 30 July 2017 7.014 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2017 30 July 2017 Annual general meeting Country-by-country reporting The Annual General Meeting AGM details are as follows: In accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements country-by-country reporting Regulations 2013, the Group will publish Date and time Location additional country-by-country information in respect of the year ended Wednesday 3 May 2017 etc venues 31 December 2016, on or before 31 December 2017.
We have also 11.00am London time 200 Aldersgate published our approach to tax and tax policy.
6.00pm Hong Kong time St Pauls This information will be available on the Groups website at sc.
com London EC1A 4HD Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in the ShareCare Notice of AGM.
ShareCare is available to shareholders on the Companys UK register Details of voting at the Companys AGM and of proxy votes cast who have a UK address and bank account, and allows you to hold can be found on the Companys website at investors.
com yourStandard Chartered shares in a nominee account.
Your shares Interim results willbe held in electronic form so you will no longer have to worry about The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, keeping your share certificates safe.
If you join ShareCare you will still The Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Bombay Stock Exchange and the be invited to attend the Companys AGM and receive any dividend at National Stock Exchange of India and put on the Companys website.
the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join and there are no annual fees to pay.
If you would like to receive more information, please visit our website at investors.
cfm or contact the shareholder helpline on 0370 702 0138.
The INR dividend is per Indian Depository Receipt www.
com 317 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Donating shares to ShareGift affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Shareholders who have a small number of shares often find it Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed uneconomical to sell them.
An alternative is to consider donating them or implied in the forward-looking statements.
Recipients should not to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686, which collects place reliance on, and are cautioned about relying on, any forwarddonations of unwanted shares until there are enough to sell, and uses looking statements.
the proceeds to support UK charities.
There is no implication for There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ Capital Gains Tax no gain or loss when you donate shares to charity, materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking and UK taxpayers may be able to claim income tax relief on the value statements.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ oftheir donation.
materially from those described in the forward-looking statements Further information can be obtained from the Companys registrars include but are not limited to changes in global, political, economic, orfrom ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or from ShareGift.
org business, competitive, market and regulatory forces or conditions, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, future Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS business combinations or dispositions and other factors specific to the Dividends can be paid straight into your bank or building society Group.
Please register online at investorcentre.
co. uk or contact our registrar for Any forward-looking statement contained in this document is based on a mandate form past or current trends and or activities of the Group and should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in Registrars and shareholder enquiries the future.
No statement in this document is intended to be a profit If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you hold forecast or to imply that the earnings of the Group for the current year your shares on the UK register, please contact our registrar or future years will necessarily match or exceed the historical or Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, published earnings of the Group.
Each forward-looking statement Bristol, BS99 7ZY or call the shareholder helpline number on speaks only as of the date of the particular statement.
Except as required by any applicable laws or regulations, the Group If you hold your shares on the Hong Kong branch register and you expressly disclaims any obligation to revise or update any forwardhaveenquiries, please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor looking statement contained within this document, regardless of Services Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, whether those statements are affected as a result of new information, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
You can check your shareholding at computershare.
com hk investors Nothing in this document shall constitute, in any jurisdiction, an offer or solicitation to sell or purchase any securities or other financial If you hold Indian Depository Receipts and you have enquiries, instruments, nor shall it constitute a recommendation or advice in please contact Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Karvy Selenium respect of any securities or other financial instruments or any other Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, matter.
Chinese translation If you would like a Chinese version of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, WanChai, HongKong.
18317M Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked toreceive corporate communications in either Chinese or English canchange this election by contacting Computershare.
If there is a dispute between any translation and the English version ofthis Annual Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
Taxation Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you are a shareholder in the UK, Hong Kong or the US will be sent to you with your dividend documents.
Electronic communications If you hold your shares on the UK register and in future you would like to receive the Annual Report and Accounts electronically rather than bypost, please register online at: investorcentre.
Then click on Register and follow the instructions.
You will need to have your Shareholder or ShareCare reference number when you log on.
You can find this on your share certificate or ShareCare statement.
Once registered you can also submit your proxy vote and dividend election electronically, and change your bank mandate or address information.
Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as may, could, will, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, believe, plan, seek, continue or other words of similar meaning.
By their very nature, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be 318 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
