NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Accounting policy Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in Intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in Investments in associates.
Goodwill included in intangible assets is assessed at each balance sheet date for impairment and carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Detailed calculations are performed based on discounting expected pre-tax cash flows of the relevant cash generating units CGUs and discounting these at an appropriate discount rate, the determination of which requires the exercise of judgement.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
These are smaller than the Groups reportable segments as set out in note 2 as the Group views its reportable segments on a global basis.
The major CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are set out below.
Significant accounting estimates and judgments The carrying amount of goodwill is based on the extent of judgements including the basis of assumptions and forecasts used for determining cash flows for CGUs, headroom availability, and sensitivities of the forecasts to reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
The Group undertakes an annual assessment to evaluate whether the carrying value of goodwill on balance sheet is impaired.
The estimation of future cash flows and the level to which they are discounted is inherently uncertain and requires significant judgement.
Acquired intangibles At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, intangible assets which are deemed separable and that arise from contractual or other legal rights are capitalised and included within the net identifiable assets acquired.
These intangible assets are initially measured at fair value, which reflects market expectations of the probability that the future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the entity, and are amortised on the basis of their expected useful lives 4 to 16 years.
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators ofimpairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is written downimmediately.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Directcosts of the development of separately identifiable internally generated software are capitalised where it is probable that future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow from its use internally generated software.
These costs include salaries and wages, materials, service providers and contractors, and directly attributable overheads.
Costs incurred in the ongoing maintenance of software are expensed immediately when incurred.
Internally generated software is amortised over a three-year time period.
Computer software is materially all internally generated 244 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 17.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Goodwill At 31 December 2016, accumulated goodwill impairment losses incurred from 1 January 2005 amounted to $2,481 million 2015: $2,315 million.
An annual assessment is made as to whether the current carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated at the date of acquisition to a CGU.
Goodwill is considered to be impaired if the carrying amount of the relevant CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Indicators of impairment include changes in the economic performance and outlook of the region including geo-political changes, changes in market value of regional investments, large credit defaults and strategic decisions to exit certain regions.
The recoverable amounts for all the CGUs were measured based on value-in-use ViU.
At 31 December 2016, all CGUs had recoverable amounts that exceed the carrying amounts with the exception of the Thailand CGU, where the carrying amount exceeded the recoverable value by $166 million.
An impairment charge of $166 million has been recognised to write off this remaining goodwill.
The calculation of ViU for each CGU is calculated using five-year cash flow projections and an estimated terminal value based on a perpetuity value after year five.
The cash flow projections are based on forecasts approved by management up to 2021.
The perpetuity terminal value amount is calculated using year five cash flows using long-term GDP growth rates.
All cash flows are discounted using pre-tax discount rates which reflect market rates appropriate to the CGU.
In prior years the terminal value element of the calculation was calculated by projecting a further 15-years of cash flow and then including a terminal value.
The change in assessment methodology of the terminal value is not materially different between the two methods.
The goodwill allocated to each CGU and key assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts are set out below and are solely estimates for the purposes of assessing impairment of acquired goodwill.
2016 2015 Long-term Long-term Pre-tax forecast GDP Pre-tax forecast GDP Goodwill discount rate growth rates Goodwill discount rate growth rates Cash Generating Unit $million per cent per cent $million per cent per cent Pakistan business 251 23.8 5.3 251 27.0 4.9 Taiwan business 845 12.8 2.2 828 16.3 3.0 Credit card and personal loan Asia, India & MENAP 896 13.1 3.6 896 15.0 4.0 India business 295 17.0 7.8 303 19.2 7.6 1 MESA business 368 13.6 3.7 368 19.3 4.0 Thailand business 13.9 3.1 165 17.4 3.3 Financial Institutions and Private Banking business 396 13.5 2.9 396 14.0 3.8 Corporate advisory business 71 13.4 2.9 74 14.0 3.8 Consumer banking business in Singapore 193 10.1 2.6 197 11.9 4.0 Other 141 13.4-21.2 2.9-5.9 138 13.8-20.7 3.8-6.2 3,456 3,616 1.
MESA business consists of UAE, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain, Lebanon, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh The Group has performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions for each CGUs recoverable amount.
These include a 1 per cent post-tax increase in the discount rate, a 1 per cent pre-tax reduction in long-term GDP growth rates, a 10 per cent post-tax reduction in estimated cash flows and in certain instances a combination of these factors.
In each case, except the Taiwan business CGU, the recoverable amounts exceed the carrying amounts.
In the case of Taiwan the sensitivity analysis under various scenarios could lead to a potential impairment in a future period: however, at present we do not consider that this is required.
The discount rate would need to increase by 1 per cent pre-tax or the cash flows would need to fall by 9.3 per cent pre-tax on an annual basis.
Acquired intangibles These primarily comprise those items recognised as part of the acquisitions of Union Bank now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited, Hsinchu now amalgamated into Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Pembroke, Harrison Lovegrove, American Express Bank and Absas custody business in Africa.
Maintenance intangible assets represent the value in the difference between the contractual right under acquired leases to receive aircraft in a specified maintenance condition at the end of the lease and the actual physical condition of the aircraft at the date of acquisition.
The acquired intangibles are amortised over periods from four years to a maximum of 16 years.
The constituents are as follows: 2016 2015 $million $million Acquired intangibles comprise: Aircraft maintenance 24 Brand names 1 Core deposits 3 5 Customer relationships 39 50 Licences 8 8 Net book value 74 64 www.
