STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statement of compliance experience and expectation of future events and are reviewed The Group financial statements consolidate Standard Chartered PLC periodically.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set and equity account the Groups interest in associates and jointly out in the relevant disclosure notes for the following areas: controlled entities.
Loan loss provisioning refer to Risk review and Capital review onpage 144 The parent company financial statements present information about Taxation note 10 the Company as a separate entity.
Fair value and impairment of financial instruments note 13 Both the parent company financial statements and the Group financial Goodwill impairment note 17 statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in Provisions for liabilities and charges note 23 accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as endorsed by Retirement benefit obligations note 29 the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS published by the Impairment of investments in associates and joint arrangements International Accounting Standards Board IASB if a standard has not note 31 been endorsed by the EU.
Structured entities note 32 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 IFRS and Hong Kong Listing Rules ofthe Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of There are no significant differences between EU-endorsed IFRS comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these andHong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
Prior period re-presentation The following pages of the Strategic report form part of these financial In November 2015 the Group announced a reorganisation of its statements: business to better align the Groups structure to client segments with Client segment reviews, pages 30 to 43 clear local or global needs and to streamline the geographic regions.
This approach aligns with how the client segments and regions are Regional reviews, pages 44 to 53 managed internally.
These changes became effective on 1 January The following parts of the Risk review form part of these financial 2016.
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments the Group has statements: therefore made changes to the composition of its client segments a From the start of Risk profile on page 150 to the end of the Strategic andgeographic regions.
On 5 July 2016 the Group re-presented the risk section on page 181 excluding: Groups financial results to reflect these changes for the year ended 31 December 2015 and this is available at investors.
com en Asset backed securities, page 169 releases.
This representation has not resulted in any changes Country cross-border risk, page 169 tothe reported income or balances in total at a Group level and now Market risk changes risks not in value at risk, page 172 isthe basis upon which the Group reports.
Market risk changes backtesting, page 172 Comparatives Mapping of market risk items to the balance sheet, page 173 Certain comparatives have been changed to comply with current Stressed coverage, liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding year disclosures.
Details of these changes are set out in the relevant ratio, page 175 notes below: Liquidity pool, page 176 Note 13 Financial instruments Encumbered assets, page 177 Note 24 Contingent liabilities and commitments Readily available for encumbrance, page 178 Note 32 Structured entities Operational risk, page 180 Liquidity risk page 180 Other risks, page 181 Credit risk pages 150 to 167 b Regulatory compliance, review, request for information and These changes have not resulted in any amendments to the reported investigations on page 138 income statement or balance sheet of the Group.
c From the start of Risk management approach on page 139 to the New accounting standards adopted by the Group end of Liquidity risk stress testing on page 147, excluding Country The requirements for the classification and measurement of financial cross-border risk on page 145 and where indicated on page 147 liabilities are specified in IAS 39, including the ability to designate d From the start of the CRD IV capital base section on page 183 financial liabilities as fair value through profit or loss.
Following the EU tothe end of Movement in total capital section on page 184 Adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in November 2016, the Group elected to early apply the requirements for the presentation of gains Basis of preparation and losses on financial liabilities designated as at fair value through The consolidated and Company financial statements have been profit or loss relating to own credit in other comprehensive income prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the rather than net trading income without applying the other requirements revaluation of cash-settled share-based payments, available-for-sale in IFRS 9.
The own credit amounts are accounted for as a separate assets, and financial assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair category of equity.
Opening retained earnings has been adjusted to value through profit or loss.
reclassify the cumulative own credit adjustment component of the Significant accounting estimates and judgements cumulative fair value adjustment on financial liabilities designated at In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, fairvalue through profit or loss.
These amounts will not be recycled the Group makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future tothe income statement but will be recycled to retained earnings on events on those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
derecognition of the applicable instruments.
IFRS9 does not permit TheGroups estimates and assumptions are based on historical the prior year to be restated as discussed below.
com 207 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The reporting of fair value changes relating to own credit in Other New accounting standards in issue but not yet effective comprehensive income is only permitted where this does not create The following new standards are effective for periods beginning after or enlarge an accounting mismatch.
Where an accounting mismatch 1 January 2017 and have not been applied in preparing these arises, the fair value changes are reported in the income statement.
consolidated financial statements: The Group currently designates financial liabilities at fair value through IFRS 9 Financial Instruments profit or loss only on the basis that they contain a bifurcated IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 and has an effective date of 1 January embedded derivative and not as a result of an accounting mismatch.
It was endorsed by the EU in November 2016.
IFRS 9 replaces There is no economic offset between fair value changes in own credit a number of elements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and the fair value changes in financial assets measured at fair value.
and Measurement: introducing new requirements for the classification The accounting policies used by the Group are detailed in the and measurement of financial instruments: the recognition and relevant note to the financial statements, except those set out measurement of credit impairment provisions: and providing for a below.
All have been applied consistently across the Group simplified approach to hedge accounting.
and to all years presented in these financial statements.
The changes in measures arising on initial application of IFRS 9 will Foreign currencies beincorporated through an adjustment to the opening reserves and Items included in the Group financial statements for each of the retained earnings position as at 1 January 2018.
Although IFRS 9 Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary willbe retrospectively applied, the Group is only permitted to restate economic environment in which the entity operates the functional comparatives if, and only if, it is possible without the use of hindsight.
Both the Group and Company financial The Group does not consider it possible to restate comparatives for statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional and impairment without the use of hindsight.
If comparatives were to be presentation currency of the Company and the presentation currency restated, they must incorporate all of the requirements of IFRS 9.
further details on the effect and implementation of IFRS 9 refer to note40.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date.
The effective date of IFRS 15 is 1 January 2018 with early adoption Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of permitted.
The standard has been endorsed by the EU.
The standard such transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange provides a principles-based approach for revenue recognition and rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign introduces the concept of recognising revenue for obligations as or currencies, are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary when they are satisfied.
The standard may either be applied fully assets and liabilities are translated at historical exchange rates if held retrospectively or can be applied on a modified retrospective basis at historical cost, or year-end exchange rates if held at fair value, and whereby recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements are the resulting foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in applied from 1 January 2018, subject to a cumulative catch-up either the income statement or shareholders equity depending on adjustment to opening retained earnings on this date in respect of thetreatment of the gain or loss on the asset or liability.
open contracts in scope of the standard.
Foreign currency translation It is expected that revenue in scope of IFRS 15 will predominantly be The results and financial position of all the entities included in the fees and commission income and the impact of the standard is Group financial statements that have a functional currency different currently being assessed.
It is not yet practicable to quantify the effect from the Groups presentation currency are accounted for as follows: of IFRS 15 in these financial statements.
We intend to provide a more comprehensive update in the 2017 Half Year Report.
Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date IFRS 16 Leases The effective date of IFRS 16 is 1 January 2019 with early adoption Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at permitted if IFRS 15 is also adopted at or before application of IFRS average exchange rates or at rates on the date of the transaction 16.
IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires where exchange rates fluctuate significantly a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term All resulting exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are ofmore than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
recognised as a separate component of equity Alessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing itsright to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of representing its obligation to make lease payments.
IFRS 16 the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are IAS17 Leases.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types sold or capital repatriated they are recognised in the income of leases differently.
The impact of the standard is currently being statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
It is not yet practicable to quantify the effect of IFRS 16 on Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a these consolidated financial statements.
The standard has yet to be foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity endorsed by the EU.
and translated at the closing rate.
