STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 40.
IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group is committed to a high quality implementation of IFRS 9. fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The existing Inaddition to complying with the requirements of IFRS 9, the Group IAS 39 financial asset categories of held to maturity, loans and willseekto adhere to the Guidance on Credit Risk and Accounting for receivables and available-for-sale AFS are removed.
Expected Credit Losses issued by the BCBS and will also implement Financial assets are classified into these measurement classifications the guidance issued by the IASBs Impairment Transition Resource on the basis of the business model within which they are held, and their Group.
The Group will also seek to implement the recommendations contractual cash flow characteristics.
Financial assets can only be held ofthe Enhanced Disclosure Task Force set out in their report Impact at amortised cost if the instruments are held in order to collect the ofExpected Credit Loss Approaches on Bank Risk Disclosures and contractual cash flows, and where those contractual cash flows are those of the European Securities and Markets Authority, including the solely payments of principal and interest SPPI.
Interest in this context recommendations on disclosures in advance of the date of represents compensation for the time value of money and associated initialapplication.
credit risks together with compensation for other basic lending risks The Group continues to assess the impact that IFRS 9 will have on its and costs and profit margin.
consolidated financial statements but it is not yet practicable to provide Financial asset debt instruments that have a hold to collect and sell a robust and reliable estimate of the potential effect.
The Group will business model and that meet the SPPI criteria are held at FVOCI, with disclose the impact of IFRS 9 when it is reliably able to do so, which unrealised gains or losses deferred in reserves until the asset is willbe no later than the publication of its 2017 Annual Report and derecognised.
In certain circumstances, non-trading equity instruments Accounts.
To the extent that amounts are disclosed based on a period can be irrevocably designated as FVOCI but both unrealised and earlier than 31 December 2017, the actual impact on initial application realised gains or losses are recognised in reserves and no amounts of IFRS 9 is likely to be different, reflecting changes in the composition other than dividends are recognised in the income statement.
of portfolios and or different economic conditions in the interim period.
Financial debt instruments that would otherwise be measured at It is currently anticipated that the initial adoption of IFRS 9 would be amortised cost or FVOCI can be elected at recognition to be measured unlikely to result in a material movement between asset measurement at FVTPL.
This election is irrevocable and is only available where the categories compared to IAS 39.
In line with IFRS 9 requirements, all Group can demonstrate there is an accounting mismatch.
All other non-trading equity securities will be classified at fair value through financial assets will be held at FVTPL.
profitor loss with all realised and unrealised gains and losses reported directly in income.
The Group is not currently proposing to designate The requirements for the classification and measurement of financial any equity securities at fair value through other comprehensive income.
liabilities were carried forward unchanged from IAS 39, including the In respect of credit impairment provisions, the Group currently ability to designate financial liabilities as FVTPL.
However, the anticipate that the overall provisioning base will increase on initial requirements relating to financial liabilities designated at fair value adoption compared to IAS 39, with most of the increase arising from through profit or loss have been amended to require that the change the requirement to initially recognise 12 months of expected credit inthe fair value of an entitys own credit risk is presented within other losses.
We currently anticipate a moderate impact from the introduction comprehensive income rather than net trading income.
These amounts of lifetime loss provisions for non-defaulted but significantly deteriorated would not be recycled to the income statement, even on derecognition credit assets, in part reflecting the relatively short tenor of our of the instrument.
The Group has decided to early adopt this change Corporate & Institutional Banking portfolio.
Further details to our as permitted by IFRS 9 before the mandatory effective date.
Please approach is set below.
The adoption of IFRS 9 may also have a capital impact, in particular on The derecognition requirements under IFRS 9 have been carried the CET1 capital base, reflecting the anticipated increase in the stock forward unchanged from IAS 39.
Where the contractual cash flows ofimpairment provisions under an expected credit loss model.
Further ofafinancial instrument not measured at FVTPL have been modified, details are set out in the Impact on capital planning section below.
however, amodification gain or loss is recognised in the income statement if themodification does not result in derecognition.
The gain Summary of IFRS 9 and implementation status or loss represents the difference in the present value of the contractual Implementation governance, strategy and milestones cash flows as aresult of the modification, discounted at the original The IFRS 9 programme has a full-time implementation team in place effective interest rate.
with an established plan and is one of the largest programmes within Implementation status the Group.
The implementation is jointly run by Finance and Risk and The Group has completed an initial assessment of its business models overseen by a Project Steering Committee, which comprises senior and, where the business model is hold to collect or hold to collect management from Risk, Finance and Technology.
From a control and sell, has completed the initial analysis of the cash flow perspective, the implementation programme is subject to review by characteristics of products within those portfolios.
In assessing the Group Internal Audit and regular updates on the implementation are business models, the Group has considered, among other factors, also provided to the Group Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
what the objective of the business is, how performance is managed In addition, there is a Group-wide programme of education and training and how staff are rewarded.
In assessing the cash flow characteristics in place, which includes briefings with the Management Team, the of products, the Group has reviewed the underlying contractual terms Group Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Information to determine whether the SPPI criteria have been met.
Officer, and independent non-executive directors.
The Group does not currently anticipate that there will be a material The build phase of the IFRS 9 implementation is underway and testing change in the measurement classifications under IFRS 9 compared of the systems will take place in 2017 to embed the changes.
We expect the majority of loans and advances to banks Group will perform a parallel assessment during the second half of andcustomers to continue to be measured at amortised cost.
Debt 2017 to better understand the implications of IFRS 9.
The parallel securities classified as available-for-sale will be classified either as assessment will allow an evaluation of the impact of the new ECL FVOCI or amortised cost, depending on the business model.
Equity models on the Groups results, as well as validating the controls and instruments will be held as FVTPL: the Group is not currently proposing efficiency of new governance and operational processes, including to designate any equity instruments as FVOCI.
Impairment Classification and measurement There are three measurement classifications under IFRS 9: amortised Impairment losses under IAS 39 are only recognised when a loss has cost, fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and, for financial assets, been incurred.
Where this is separately identified at the balance sheet www.
com 291 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40.
IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued date, an individual impairment provision is recognised.
Where this is not modelling.
Where available, the Group is leveraging existing advanced separately identified, a provision is recognised based on past internal rating based AIRB regulatory models.
Forportfolios that follow experience for losses that have been incurred at the balance sheet a standardised regulatory approach, the Group has developed new datewithin the portfolio but have not yet been separately identified.
models where those portfolios are sufficiently material.
For less material TheGroup does not currently calculate portfolio impairment provisions portfolios, which are predominantly within Retail, the Group intends to for AFS assets or off balance sheet exposures.
use simplified approaches based on historical roll rates or loss rates.
Under IFRS 9 the measurement of loan loss provisions will move from The sophisticated credit models that are used to derive ECL have three the IAS39 incurred loss model to a forward-looking ECL model.
This main components forward-looking probability of default PD, loss model will be applied to all financial assets measured at amortised cost given default LGD and exposure at default EAD.
These elements are and FVOCI, lease receivables, and certain loan commitments and defined as follows: financial guarantees.
ECL will be recognised regardless of whether a Probability of default PD : the probability that a counterparty will credit loss has been incurred.
As a result, together with the increased default, calibrated over the 12 months from the reporting date stage 1 scope and forward-looking nature of the ECL model, the stock of or over the lifetime of the product stage 2 and incorporating forward impairment provisions under IFRS9 is likely to be higher than IAS39.
Under the IFRS 9 ECL approach, an ECL provision is recognised at Loss given default LGD : the loss that is expected to arise on thetime of initial recognition for all financial assets that are in the scope default, incorporating forward-looking information where relevant.
of ECL including off balance sheet exposures in respect of default events that may occur over the next 12months so-called stage 1 Exposure at default EAD : the expected balance sheet exposure at assets with provisions equivalent to 12-months expected credit the time of default, incorporating expectations on drawdowns, losses.
ECL continues to be determined onthis basis until there is amortisation, pre-payments and forward looking information where either a significant increase in credit risk or the asset becomes credit relevant.
Although the IFRS 9 models leverage the existing Basel risk If a financial asset or portfolio of financial assets experiences a components, a number of significant adjustments are required to significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, however, ensure the resulting outcome is in line with the IFRS 9 requirements.
anexpected credit loss provision is recognised for default events that Basel Expected IFRS 9 Expected may occur over the lifetime of the asset so-called stage 2 assets with Loss EL Credit Loss ECL provisions equivalent to lifetime expected credit losses.
A significant Rating philosophy Mix of point-in-time, Point-in-time, increase in credit risk is assessed in the context of an increase in the through-the-cycle forward-looking risk of a default occurring over the life of the financial instrument when orhybrid compared to that expected at the time of initial recognition.
It is not Parameters Often conservative, Best estimate, based assessed in the context of an increase in the expected credit loss.
calibration due to regulatory floors on conditions known at and downturn calibration the balance sheet date Similar to the current IAS 39 requirements for individual impairment provisions, lifetime expected credit losses are recognised for loans Timeframe 12 month period 12 month and lifetime thatare in default or are otherwise credit-impaired so-called Discounting Discounting at the Discounting at the stage 3 assets.
weighted average cost effective interest rate Financial assets may be reclassified out of stage 3 if they are no of capital to the time EIR to the balance ofdefault sheet reporting date longerconsidered credit-impaired.
Financial assets in stage 2 may bereclassified to stage 1 if the conditions that led to a significant The PD used in assessing both significant increases in credit risk and increase in credit risk no longer apply.
inthe overall computation of expected credit losses will incorporate the The measurement of expected credit losses across all stages is impact of forward-looking economic assumptions that have an effect required to reflect an unbiased and probability weighted amount that on credit risk, such as interest rates, unemployment rates and GDP isdetermined by evaluating a range of reasonably possible outcomes forecasts.
These factors collectively reflect the Groups most likely view using reasonable and supportable information about past events, of future economic conditions across its footprint and will be consistent current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
to those used for strategic planning purposes.
In order to account for Wherecredit losses are non-linear in nature, multiple forward-looking the potential non-linearity in credit risk, multiple forecast economic scenarios are incorporated into the range of reasonably possible scenarios will also be incorporated into the PD and other parameters, outcomes.
The period considered when measuring expected credit loss where relevant and the calculation of ECL, conditioned on the is the contractual term of the financial asset.
However, certain revolving Groupsprimary economic forecasts.
The Group currently intends portfolios, including credit cards, would be measured over theperiod toincorporate this aspect through the use of a Monte Carlo that the Group is exposed to credit risk rather than the contractual term.
As IFRS 9 ECL is more forward looking than IAS 39, the impairment In assessing whether a financial asset or portfolio has experienced charge will be susceptible to changes in period to period forecasts of asignificant increase in credit risk, the Group will consider a number macroeconomic conditions.
The quantum of ECL will also be impacted ofindicators across its portfolios, including changes in PD since by the tenor of the portfolios and expected life for revolving facilities.
origination, early alert watch lists and external indicators such as creditdefault swap spreads.
As a backstop, financial assets that For assets measured at amortised cost, the balance sheet amount are30or more days past due will be considered to have experienced reflects the gross asset less the allowance for expected credit losses.
asignificant increase in credit risk.
For instruments held at FVOCI, the balance sheet amount reflects theinstruments fair value, with the expected credit loss held as a An asset is only considered credit impaired if there is observed separate reserve within other comprehensive income.
Expected objective evidence of impairment.
These factors are similar to the creditloss allowances on off-balance sheet instruments are held as current objective evidence of impairment indicators under IAS 39. liability provisions, if the ECL can be separately identified.
Thisincludes, among others, default, significant financial difficulty orforbearance actions see page 215 for further information on Implementation status forbearance.
The Group intends to align its definition of default to the For material portfolios, the Group has adopted a sophisticated approach current regulatory requirements, such that all financial assets that are for determining expected credit losses that makes extensive use of credit 90 days or more past due or are considered unlikely to pay will be 292 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 40.
IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued considered as defaulted assets.
The determination of credit-impaired ECL provisions will be similar to the current IAS 39 approach: for example, provisions within Corporate & Institutional Banking will continue to be based on the present value of estimated future cash flows for individual clients under a range of scenarios.
Where these cash flows include realisable collateral, the values used will incorporate forward-looking information.
The Groups policy on write-offs is expected to remain unchanged.
Hedge accounting Summary IFRS 9 aligns hedge accounting more closely with risk management activities and establishes a more principle-based approach to hedge accounting.
The IASB is working on a separate project to address the accounting for hedges of open portfolios, usually referred to as macro hedge accounting.
Until such time as that project is complete, entities can choose between applying the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 or to continue to apply the existing hedge accounting requirements in IAS 39.
Implementation status The Groups current expectation is that it will continue to apply the existing hedge accounting requirements in IAS 39 until there is further clarification on the IASBs macro hedge accounting project.
Impact on capital planning The introduction of IFRS 9 is likely to have an impact on the Groups capital, in particular arising from the anticipated increase in the provisioning base under an expected credit loss model compared tothe current IAS 39 incurred loss approach as there are currently nochanges proposed to the overall regulatory framework in response to IFRS 9 before the effective date of 1 January 2018.
For IRB portfolios, the impact on capital will be mitigated to the extent that there is a current deduction for excess regulatory expected losses EL.
Where the IFRS 9 accounting provisions exceed regulatory EL, theexcess accounting provisions will reduce the capital base.
This means the CET1 capital base could become more volatile as the accounting reflects current conditions whereas theregulatory EL is less volatile as it looks across the economic cycle as a whole.
If regulatory EL exceeds the accounting provisions, then the current treatment continues.
From a total capital perspective, if there is an excess of accounting provisions, this is added back to the Tier 2 capital base but only up to a limit of 0.6 per cent of credit risk-weighted assets RWAs.
For standardised portfolios, there will be a direct flow through to capital for any increase in provisions as there is no shortfall of regulatory EL tooffset the increase.
Risk weights will not be adjusted.
In October 2016 the BCBS initiated a consultation around whether aperiod of transition relief would be appropriate to spread the initial impact of IFRS 9 over a number of years: it also issued a discussion paper in respect of what changes in the longer term could be made tothe regulatory framework given accounting will now reflect expected loss through IFRS 9.
The basis of incorporating IFRS 9 into the Groups internal and external stress testing processes continues to be assessed.
