NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON LOANS AND ADVANCES AND OTHER CREDIT RISK PROVISIONS continued The following table reconciles the charge for impairment provisions on financial assets to the total impairment charge and other credit risk provision.
2016 2015 $million $million Net charge against profit on loans and advances: Individual impairment charge 2,553 4,820 Portfolio impairment charge release 52 4 2,605 4,816 Impairment charges related to credit commitments 45 94 Impairment charges relating to debt securities classified as loans and receivables 97 66 Impairment charges relating to credit risk mitigation instruments 44 Total impairment losses and other credit risk provisions on loans and advances 2,791 4,976 Impairment charges relating to credit risk mitigation instruments The Group executed funded credit mitigation transactions related to the Liquidation Portfolio, which did not achieve derecognition and are recorded as liabilities on an amortised cost basis.
The liability balances are adjusted for revisions to the impairment estimates for the loans referenced in the transactions.
Both impairment losses on the referenced loans and the related impairment on these credit mitigation transactions are recorded in total impairment losses and other credit risk provisions on loans and advances.
An analysis of impairment provisions on loans and advances by client segment is set out within the Risk review on page 161.
OTHER IMPAIRMENT Accounting policy Available-for-sale assets Where objective evidence of impairment exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the amortised cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement isreclassified from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Available-for-sale debt securities are assessed for impairment in the same way as assets carried at amortised cost see note 8 Objective evidence of impairment, for impairment trigger events.
Further the extent, observability and depth of market price decreases and collateral rights are considered when assessing objective evidence of listed impairment for available-for-sale instruments.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
For equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an equity security below its cost is considered, among other factors, in assessing objective evidence of impairment.
In assessing significance, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original fair value of the asset upon recognition.
In assessing prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the continuous period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its initial recognition amount.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Refer to the below referenced notes for the remaining relevant accounting policy.
2016 2015 $million $million Impairment of goodwill note 17 166 488 Other impairment Impairment of fixed assets note 18 131 149 Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets note 13 : Debt securities 54 5 Equity shares 246 142 Impairment of investment in associates note 31 46 Impairment of acquired intangible assets note 17 1 Other 15 42 1 Recovery of impairment on disposal of instruments 18 446 367 Total other impairment 612 855 1.
Relates to private equity instruments sold that had impairment provisions raised against them in prior years 216 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
