STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION GLOSSARY Glossary AT1 or Additional Tier 1 capital BIPRU Contractual maturity not receive the full market value of AT1 capital consists of instruments The PRAs Prudential Sourcebook Contractual maturity refers to the contracts.
with no fixed maturity issued by the for Banks, Building Societies and the final payment date of a loan or Customer deposits Group and related share premium Investment Firms.
other financial instrument, at which Money deposited by all individuals that meet the BaselIII criteria for point all the remaining outstanding CRD or Capital Requirements and companies which are not credit inclusion in total capital.
principal and interest is due to Directive IV institutions including securities bepaid.
Additional value adjustment The Capital Requirements Directive soldunder repurchase agreement See Prudent valuation adjustment.
CRD and Capital Requirements CIR or cost to income ratio see repo reverse repo.
Such funds Regulation CRR that implement Represents the proportion of total are recorded as liabilities in the Advanced Internal Rating Based theBasel III proposals in Europe.
operating expenses to total Groups balance sheet under AIRB approach operating income.
The AIRB approach under the Capital resources BaselII framework is used to Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital Countercyclical capital buffer DVA or debit valuation calculate credit risk capital based after regulatory adjustments.
Regulatory Capital of up to adjustment onthe Groups own estimates of 2.5 per cent of risk-weighted assets An adjustment to the fair value of CGU or cash-generating unit certain parameters.
in a given jurisdiction that is required derivative contracts that reflect the Thesmallest identifiable group of tobe held under Basel III rules to possibility that the Group may Advances-to-deposits assets that generates cash inflows ensure that banks build up surplus default and not pay the full market ADR ratio that are largely independent of the capital when macroeconomic value of contracts.
The ratio of total loans and advances cash inflows from other assets or conditions indicate excess credit to customers relative to total groups of assets.
A low advancesDebt securities are assets on the Claw-back to-deposits ratio demonstrates that Counterparty credit risk Groups balance sheet and represent An individual is required to pay back customer deposits exceed customer The risk that a counterparty defaults certificates of indebtedness of credit to the Group variable remuneration loans resulting from emphasis before satisfying its obligations institutions, public bodies or other under certain circumstances.
placed on generating a high level under acontract.
undertakings excluding those issued ofstable funding from customers.
Collectively assessed loan by central banks.
Cover ratio impairment provisions ASEAN Represents the extent to which Debt securities in issue Also known as portfolio impairment Association of South East Asian non-performing loans are covered Debt securities in issue are provisions PIP.
Impairment Nations ASEAN which includes by impairment allowances.
transferable certificates of assessment on a collective basis theGroups operations in Brunei, indebtedness of the Group to the forhomogeneous groups of loans CCF or Credit Conversion Factor Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, bearer of the certificate.
These are tocover losses which have been An estimate of the amount the Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
liabilities of the Group and include incurred but have not yet been Group expects a customer to have certificates of deposits.
AUM or Assets under identified at the balance sheet date.
drawn down further on a facility limit management Typically Retail clients are assessed at the point of default, either DTA or deferred tax asset Total market value of assets such as on a portfolio basis.
prescribed byBIPRU or modelled Income taxes recoverable in future deposits, securities and funds held bythe Group.
periods in respect of deductible CRE or Commercial real estate by the Group on behalf of its clients.
temporary differences between Includes office buildings, industrial CDS or credit default swap theaccounting and tax base of an Basel II property, medical centres, hotels, A credit derivative is an arrangement asset or liability that will result in The capital adequacy framework malls, retail stores, shopping whereby the credit risk of an asset taxdeductible amounts in future issued by the Basel Committee centres, farm land, multi-family the reference asset is transferred periods, the carry-forward of tax onBanking Supervision BCBS housing buildings, warehouses, from the buyer to the seller of losses or the carry-forward of inJune 2006 in the form of the garages and industrial properties.
A credit default swap unused tax credits.
International Convergence of Commercial real estate loans are isacontract where the protection CapitalMeasurement and those backed by commercial real seller receives premium or DTL or deferred tax liability CapitalStandards.
interest-related payments in return Income taxes payable in future for contracting to make payments to periods in respect of taxable Basel III CET1 Common Equity the protection buyer upon a defined temporary differences between the Global framework issued by the Tier 1 capital credit event.
Credit events normally accounting and tax base of an asset BCBS in December 2010, revised CET1 capital consists of the include bankruptcy, payment default or liability that will result in taxable inJune 2011, which sets regulatory common shares issued by the on a reference asset or assets, or amounts in future periods.
standards on banks composition Groupand related share premium, downgrades by a rating agency.
ofcapital, counterparty credit risk, retained earnings, accumulated Defined benefit obligation liquidity and leverage ratios.
The other comprehensive income and Credit institutions The present value of expected new requirements will be phased other disclosed reserves, eligible An institution whose business is to futurepayments required to inand fully implemented by non-controlling interests and receive deposits or other repayable settlethe obligations of a defined 1 January 2019. regulatory adjustments required funds from the public and to grant benefit scheme resulting from inthe calculation of CET1.
credits for its own account.
Basis point bps One hundredth of a per cent CET1 ratio Credit risk mitigation Defined benefit scheme 0.01per cent : 100 basis points A measure of the Groups CET1 Credit risk mitigation is a process Pension or other post-retirement is1per cent.
capital as a percentage of tomitigate potential credit losses benefit scheme other than a defined risk-weighted assets under CRD IV.
from any given account, customer contribution scheme.
BCBS or Basel Committee orportfolio by using a range of onBanking Supervision Constant currency Defined contribution scheme toolssuch as collateral, netting A forum on banking supervisory Constant currency change is A pension or other post-retirement agreements, credit insurance, credit matters which develops global derived by applying a simple benefit scheme where the derivatives and other guarantees.
supervisory standards for the translation of the previous period employers obligation is limited banking industry.
Its members functional currency number in each CVA or credit valuation toitscontributions to the fund.
areofficials from 45 central banks entity using the current average and adjustments Delinquency A debt or other financial orprudential supervisors from period end US dollar exchange rates An adjustment to the fair value of obligation isconsidered to be in a 28countries and territories.
to the income statement and derivative contracts that reflects the state of delinquency when payments balance sheet respectively.
possibility that the counterparty may are overdue.
Loans and advances default such that the Group would are considered to be delinquent www.
com 321 GLOSSARY when consecutive payments are prudential standards in the UK.
It has G-SIB buffer Allcompanies that have issued missed.
a strategic objective to ensure that A capital buffer prescribed in the EU publicly traded securities in the EU the relevant markets function well.
under CRD IV, to address risks in are required to prepare annual and Deposits by banks the financial sector as a whole, or interim reports under IFRS and IAS Deposits by banks comprise Forbearance one or more sub-sectors, to be standards that have been endorsed amounts owed to other domestic Forbearance takes place when deployed as necessary by each EU by the EU.
orforeign credit institutions by the aconcession is made to the member state with a view to mitigate Group including securities sold contractual terms of a loan in IFRIC structural macro-prudential risk.
response to an obligors financial The IFRS Interpretations Committee difficulties.
The Group classifies Impaired loans supports the IASB in providing Dividend per share such modified loans as either Loans where individual identified authoritative guidance on the Represents the entitlement of each Forborne not impaired loans or impairment provisions have been accounting treatment of issues not shareholder in the share of the Loans subject to forbearance raised and also include loans specifically dealt with by existing profits of the company.
Once a loan is whichare collateralised or where IFRSs and IASs.
the lowest unit of currency in which categorised as either of these, it will indebtedness has already been the shares are quoted.
Investment grade remain in one ofthese two written down to the expected A debt security, treasury bill or Effective tax rate categories until the loan matures or realisable value.
The impaired loan similar instrument with a credit rating The tax on profit losses on ordinary is otherwise derecognised.
category may include loans, which, measured by external agencies of activities as a percentage ofprofit while impaired, are still performing.
Forborne not impaired loans AAA to BBB.
loss on ordinary activities before Loans where the contractual terms Impairment allowances taxation.
Leverage ratio have been modified due to financial A provision held on the balance A ratio introduced under CRD IV Encumbered assets difficulties of the borrower, but the sheet as a result of the raising of a thatcompares Tier 1 capital to On-balance sheet assets pledged loan is not considered to charge against profit for the incurred total exposures, including certain orused as collateral in respect of beimpaired.
An impairment allowance may exposures held off balance sheet certain of the Groups liabilities.
either be identified or unidentified Free deliveries asadjusted by stipulated credit and individual specific or collective EU or European Union A transaction in which securities, conversion factors.
The European Union EU is a foreign currencies or commodities asimple, non-risk based backstop political and economic union of have been paid for before receiving IIP or individually assessed loan measure.
28member states that are located them or where securities, foreign impairment provisions Liquid Asset Ratio primarily in Europe.
currencies or commodities have Impairment that is measured for Ratio of total liquid assets to total been delivered before receiving assets that are individually Eurozone assets.
Liquid assets comprise cash payment for them.
Typically Represents the 19 EU countries that less restricted balances, net assets within the Corporate & have adopted the euro as their Free funds interbank, treasury bills and debt Institutional Banking segment of the common currency.
Free funds include equity capital, securities less illiquid securities.
retained reserves, current year Expected loss Liquidation portfolio unremitted profits and capital Interest rate risk The Group measure of anticipated A portfolio of assets which is beyond injections net of proposed dividends.
The risk of an adverse impact on the loss for exposures captured under our current risk appetite metrics and It does not include debt capital Groups income statement due to an internal ratings-based credit risk is held for liquidation.
instruments, unrealised profits or changes in interest rates.
approach for capital adequacy losses or any non-cash items.
LCR or Liquidity Coverage Ratio calculations.
It is measured as the IRB approach or internal The ratio of the stock of high quality Group-modelled view of anticipated Funded unfunded exposures ratings-based approach liquid assets to expected net cash loss based on Probability of Default, Exposures where the notional Used to calculate risk-weighted outflows over the following 30 days.
loss given default and exposure at amount of the transaction is funded assets in accordance with the High quality liquid assets should be default, with a one-year time horizon.
Represents exposures Basel Capital Accord where capital unencumbered, liquid in markets where there is a commitment to requirements are based on a firms Exposures during a time of stress and, ideally, provide future funding is made own estimates of certain parameters.
Credit exposures represent the be central bank eligible butfunds have been released amount lent to a customer, together IMA approach or internal model notreleased.
Loans and advances with any undrawn commitments.
Approach This represents lending made under FVA or funding valuation The approach used to calculate EAD or exposure at default bilateral agreements with customers adjustments market risk capital and RWA with an The estimation of the extent to entered into in the normal course of FVA reflects an adjustment to fair internal market risk model approved which the Group may be exposed business and is based on the legal value in respect of derivative by the PRA under the terms of CRD toa customer or counterparty in form of the instrument.
contracts that reflect thefunding IV CRR.
theevent of, and at the time of, that costs that the market participant Loans to banks counterpartys default.
At default, IAS or International Accounting would incorporate when determining Amounts loaned to credit institutions the customer may not have drawn Standard an exit price.
including securities bought under the loan fully or may already have A standard that forms part of the Reverse repo.
repaid some of the principal, so that G-SIBs or Global Systemically International Financial Reporting exposure is typically less than the Important Banks Standards framework.
LTV or loan-to-value ratio approved loan limit.
Global financial institutions whose A calculation which expresses the IASB or International size, complexity and systemic amount of a first mortgage lien as a ECAI or External Credit Accounting Standard Board interconnectedness mean that their percentage of the total appraised Assessment Institutions An independent standard-setting distress or failure would cause value of real property.
The For the standardised approach body responsible for the significant disruption to the wider loan-to-value ratio is used in tocredit risk for sovereigns, development and publication of financial system and economic determining the appropriate level of corporates and institutions, external IFRS, and approving interpretations activity.
The Financial Stability Board risk for the loan and therefore the ratings are used to assign risk of IFRS standards that are established a methodology to correct price of the loan to weights.
These external ratings must recommended by the IFRS identify G-SIBs in November 2011 theborrower.
come from PRA approved rating Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
agencies, known as External Credit Loans past due Designation will result in the IFRS or International Financial Assessment Institutions: which are Loans on which payments have application of a CET1 buffer.
The list Reporting Standards Moodys, Standard & Poors and been due for up to a maximum of of G-SIBs is re-assessed through A set of international accounting Fitch.
90days including those on which annual re-scoring of banks and a standards developed and issued partial payments are being made.
FCA or Financial Conduct triennial review of the methodology.
bythe International Accounting Authority Designation will result in the Standards Board, consisting of Loans subject to forbearance The Financial Conduct Authority application of a CET1 buffer principles-based guidance impaired regulates the conduct of financial between 1% and 3.5%, to be contained within IFRSs and IASs.
Loans where the terms have been firms and, for certain firms, phased in by 1 January 2019. renegotiated on terms not consistent 322 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION with current market levels due to longer-term liquidity measure PD or Probability of default accordance with the Basel Capital financial difficulties of the borrower.
designed to restrain the amount PD is an internal estimate for each Accord as implemented by the PRA.
Loans in this category are necessarily ofwholesale borrowing and borrower grade of the likelihood Risk capital adjusted profit impaired.
encourage stable funding over aone thatan obligor will default on A risk-adjusted, profit-based funding year time horizon.
LGD or loss given default mechanism.
This is applied as a The percentage of an exposure that NPLs or non-performing loans Profit loss attributable to combination of automatic a lender expects to lose in the event Any loan that is more than 90 days ordinary shareholders adjustments and other adjustments of obligor default.
past due or is otherwise individually Profit loss for the year after determined by the Remuneration impaired, other than a loan which is: non-controlling interests and Committee for specific risk and Malus a renegotiated before 90 days past dividends declared in respect control matters that are not already An arrangement that permits the due, and on which no default in ofpreference shares classified taken into account through Group to prevent vesting of all or interest payments or loss of asequity.
part of the amount of an unvested principal is expected: or variable remuneration award, PVA or prudent valuation Risks-not-in-VaR RNIV b renegotiated at or after 90 days due to a specific crystallised risk, adjustment A framework for identifying and past due, but on which there has behaviour, conduct or adverse A deduction from CET1 capital, to quantifying marginal types of market been no default in interest or performance outcome.
reflect the difference between fair risk that are not captured in the principal payments for more than value and prudent value positions, Value at Risk VaR measure for any Master netting agreement 180 days since renegotiation, and where the application of prudence reason, such as being a far-tail risk An agreement between two against which no further loss of results in a lower absolute carrying or the necessary historical market counterparties that have multiple principal is expected.
value than recognised in the data not being available.
derivative contracts with each other Normalised items financial statements.
that provides for the net settlement Secured fully and partially See Underlying earnings.
of all contracts through a single PRA or Prudential Regulation A secured loan is a loan in which the payment, in a single currency, in the OTC or over-the-counter Authority borrower pledges an asset as event of default on, or termination of, derivatives The Prudential Regulation Authority collateral for a loan which, in the any one contract.
A bilateral transaction e. g. derivatives is the statutory body responsible for event that the borrower defaults, that is not exchange traded and that the prudential supervision of banks, theGroup is able to take possession Mezzanine capital is valued using valuation models.
building societies, credit unions, of.
All secured loans are considered Financing that combines debt and insurers and a small number of fully secured if the fair value of the equity characteristics.
For example, OCA or own credit adjustment significant investment firms in the collateral is equal to or greater than a loan that also confers some profit An adjustment to the Groups issued UK.
The PRA is a part of the Bank the loan at the time of origination.
debt designated at fair value through ofEngland.
Allother secured loans are profit or loss that reflects the MREL or minimum requirement considered to be partly secured.
possibility that the Group may Repo reverse repo for own funds and eligible default and not pay the full market A repurchase agreement or repo Securitisation liabilities value of the contracts.
isa short-term funding agreement, Securitisation is a process by which A requirement under the Bank which allows a borrower to sell a debt instruments are aggregated Recovery and Resolution Directive Pillar 1 financial asset, such as asset backed into a pool, which is used to back for EU resolution authorities to set a The first pillar of the three pillars securities or Government bonds as new securities.
A company sells minimum requirement for own funds ofBasel II Basel III which provides collateral for cash.
As part of the assets to a special purpose entity and eligible liabilities for banks.
the approach to calculation of the agreement the borrower agrees to SPE which then issues securities Similar to Total Loss Absorbing minimum capital requirements for repurchase the security at some backed by the assets based on their Capacity, MREL is intended to credit, market and operational risk.
later date, usually less than 30 days, value.
This allows the credit quality ensure there is sufficient equity and Pillar 2 repaying the proceeds of the loan.
of the assets to be separated from specific types of liabilities to facilitate The second pillar of the three pillars For the party on the other end of the the credit rating of the original an orderly resolution that minimises of Basel II Basel III which requires transaction buying the security and company and transfers risk to any impact on financial stability and banks to undertake a comprehensive agreeing to sell in the future it is a external investors.
ensures the continuity of critical assessment of their risks and to reverse repurchase agreement or functions and avoids exposing Senior debt determine the appropriate amounts reverse repo.
Debt that takes priority over other of capital to be held against these Residential mortgage unsecured or otherwise more junior Net asset value NAV per share risks where other suitable mitigants A loan to purchase a residential debt owed by the issuer.
Senior debt Ratio of net assets total assets less are not available.
property which is then used as has greater seniority in the issuers total liabilities to the number of Pillar 3 collateral to guarantee repayment capital structure after subordinated ordinary shares outstanding at the The third pillar of the three pillars ofthe loan.
The borrower gives the debt.
In the event the issuer goes end of a reporting period.
ofBasel II Basel III which 3 aims lender a lien against the property, bankrupt, senior debt theoretically Net exposure toprovide a consistent and and the lender can foreclose on the must be repaid before other The aggregate of loans and comprehensive disclosure framework property if the borrower does not creditors receive any payment.
advances to customers loans and that enhances comparability repay the loan per the agreed terms.
Sovereign exposures advances to banks after impairment between banks and further promotes Also known as a home loan.
Exposures to central governments provisions, restricted balances improvements in risk practices.
RoE or Return on Equity and central government withcentral banks, derivatives PIP or portfolio impairment Represents the ratio of the current departments, central banks and net of master netting agreements, provisions years profit available for distribution entities owned or guaranteed by investment debt and equity See Collectively Assessed Loan to ordinary shareholders to the theaforementioned.
Sovereign securities, and letters of credit Impairment Provisions.
weighted average ordinary exposures, as defined by the andguarantees.
shareholders equity for the European Banking Authority, Private equity investments NII or net interest income reportingperiod.
include only exposures to central Equity securities in operating The difference between interest governments.
companies generally not quoted RoRWA or return on riskreceived on assets and interest paid ona public exchange.
Investment weighted assets Standardised approach on liabilities.
inprivate equity often involves the Profit before tax for year as a In relation to credit risk, a method NIM or net interest margin investment of capital in private percentage of RWA.
Profit may be forcalculating credit risk capital Net interest income divided by companies.
Capital for private equity statutory or underlying and is requirements using External Credit average interest earning assets.
investment is raised by retail or specified where used.
See RWA Assessment Institutions ECAI institutional investors and used to and underlying.
ratings and supervisory risk weights.
NSFR or net stable funding ratio fund investment strategies such as In relation to operational risk, The ratio of available stable funding RWA or risk-weighted assets leveraged buyouts, venture capital, amethod of calculating the to required stable funding over aone A measure of a banks assets growth capital, distressed operational capital requirement by year time horizon, assuming adjusted for their associated risks.
the application of a supervisory astressed scenario.
It is a Risk weightings are established in www.
com 323 GLOSSARY defined percentage charge to the investors would ordinarily identify gross income of eight specified separately when assessing business lines.
Areconciliation between underlying Stressed value at risk and statutory performance is on A regulatory market risk measure page 27. based on potential market movements for a continuous VaR or Value at Risk one-year period of stress for a An estimate of the potential loss trading portfolio.
which might arise from market movements under normal market Structured note conditions, if the current positions An investment tool which pays a were to be held unchanged for return linked to the value or level onebusiness day, measured to a of a specified asset or index and confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
sometimes offers capital protection if the value declines.
Structured ViU or Value-in-Use notes can be linked to equities, The present value of the future interest rates, funds, commodities expected cash flows expected to and foreign currency.
bederived from an asset or CGU.
Subordinated liabilities Write-downs Liabilities which, in the event of After an advance has been identified insolvency or liquidation of the as impaired and is subject to an issuer, are subordinated to the impairment allowance, the stage claims of depositors and other may be reached whereby it is creditors of the issuer.
concluded that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
Write Tier 1 capital downs will occur when and to the The sum of Common Equity Tier 1 extent that, the whole or part of a capital and Additional Tier 1 capital.
Tier 1 capital ratio XVA Tier 1 capital as a percentage The term used to incorporate credit, ofrisk-weighted assets.
debit and funding valuation Tier 2 capital adjustments to the fair value of Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying derivative financial instruments.
subordinated liabilities, allowable SeeCVA, DVA and FVA.
portfolio impairment provisions and unrealised gains in the eligible revaluation reserves arising from the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
TLAC or Total Loss Absorbing Capacity A standard which recommends that GSIBs hold sufficient equity and specified liabilities which can be used to absorb losses and recapitalise a bank in resolution.
It is intended to facilitate an orderly resolution that minimises any impact on financial stability, ensures the continuity ofcritical functions, and avoids exposing taxpayers to loss.
UK bank levy A levy that applies to certain UK banks and the UK operations of foreign banks The levy is payable each year based on a percentage of the chargeable equities and liabilities on the Groups consolidated balance sheet date.
Key exclusions from chargeable equities and liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on certain sovereign debt and liabilities subject to netting.
Underlying earnings The Groups statutory performance adjusted for profits orlosses of a capital nature: amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent: and other infrequent and or exceptional transactions that are significant or material in the context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period, and items which management and 324 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
