SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our Governance The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Statements statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and have prepared the Group and parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair pages 51 to 52, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Group: and consistently: the Directors Report and Strategic Report includes a fair make judgements and accounting estimates that are review of the development and performance of the business reasonable and prudent: and the position of the Group, together with a description of state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, The Directors Responsibilities Statement was approved by subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on the Group and Company Financial Statements respectively: 13 July 2016 and signed on its behalf by Euan Sutherland, and Chief Executive Officer and Nick Wharton, Chief Financial Officer.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis Euan Sutherland Nick Wharton unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Chief Executive Of ficer Chief Financial Officer continue in business.
13 July 2016 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
co. uk 87 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Financial Statements.
