92 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 AIFMD disclosures Report on remuneration and quantitative remuneration disclosure The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD requires certain disclosures to be made with regard the remuneration policy paid by the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM to its staff.
Since this report is being made available before the AIFM has completed its first full performance period after becoming authorised, the relevant information is not available at this time.
Leverage The Group may employ leverage and borrow cash in accordance with its stated investment policy or investment strategy.
The use of borrowings and leverage has attendant risks and can, in certain circumstances, substantially increase the adverse impact to which the Groups investment portfolio may be subject to.
For the purposes of this disclosure, leverage is any method by which the Groups exposure is increased, whether through borrowing of cash or securities, or leverage embedded in foreign exchange forward contracts or by any other means.
The AIFMD requires that each leverage ratio be expressed as the ratio between a Groups exposure and its net asset value, and prescribes two required methodologies, the gross methodology and the commitment methodology as set out in AIFMD Level 2 Implementation Guidance, for calculating such exposure.
Using the methodologies prescribed under the AIFMD, the leverage of the Group is detailed in the table below: Commitment leverage as Gross leverage as at 31 January 2016 at 31 January 2016 Leverage ratio 1.02 1.02 It should be noted that from a commercial perspective, the most relevant measures of leverage are considered to be the loan-to-value LTV ratio and net gearing.
At 31 January 2016, the Groups LTV ratio was nil, compared with a maximum covenant of 30% contained inthe loan facility.
In addition the Group had no net gearing as cash balances outweighed the subordinated convertible debt.
Other risk disclosures The risk disclosures relating to risk framework and risk prole of the Group are set out in the Risk and audit oversight section of the Strategic report on pages 1 to 27 and in note 27 to the notes to the financial statements on pages 83 to 91.
Pre investment disclosures The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in an Alternative Investment Fund AIF before they invest and requires that material changes tothis information be disclosed in the annual report of the AIF.
An investor report relating to AIFMD Article 23 Supplemental Disclosures, setting out information on the Groups investment strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conicts of interest and other shareholder information is available on the Groups website at www.
There have been no material changes to this information requiring disclosure.
