Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, youshould consult an independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 in the United Kingdom, or another appropriately authorised independent adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares inSVGCapital plc, please send this document and theaccompanying proxy form to the purchaser, transferee or agent throughwhom you acted for forwarding to the purchaser ortransferee.
NOTICE is hereby given that the twenty first Annual General Meeting of SVG Capital plc will be held at 9.30 a. m. on 30 March 2017 at 6 Kean Street, London WC2B 4AS to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions the Resolutions ofwhich Resolutions 1 to 9 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution.
Shareholders will also find enclosed a form of proxy for use in connection with the Annual General Meeting.
To receive the Reports of the Directors and the audited Accounts for the period ended 9 December 2016 together with the Auditors report on those Accounts.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the period ended 9 December 2016.
To re-elect Andrew Sykes as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Lynn Fordham as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Stephen Duckett as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect David Robins as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Helen Mahy as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
2 February 2017 By order of the Board Stuart Ballard, Company Secretary Registered Office: 6 Kean Street London WC2B 4AS Registered in England and Wales No.
03066856 72 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 SVG Capital plc Interim Report 2016 Shareholder information 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Equiniti on 0371 384 2776.
The Equiniti overseas helpline number is 44 121 415 7047.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or at www.
co. uk, in each case no later than 9.30 a. m. on 28 March 2017.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 9 below will not prevent ashareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights aNominatedPerson may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed orto have someone else appointed asaproxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does notwish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders mustbe registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.30 p. m. on 28 March 2017 or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.30 p. m. on the date which is two working days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights ofany person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 30 January 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 107,403,041 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
No shares were held in treasury.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 30 January 2017 were 107,403,041.
Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment of the Directors of the Company will be available for at least 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting andduring the Annual General Meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time for the receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available specialprocedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Itis the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message istransmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, inparticular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they donot do so in relation to the same shares.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by order in which the names appear in the register of members.
A company which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all its powers as a member, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that Section have the right to require the Company to publish ona website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are tobe laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on awebsite under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company about proceedings at the meeting or the contents of this Notice or for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 73 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting Continued Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notes on the following pages give an explanation of the Resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 9 are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of those Resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the Resolution.
Resolution 10 is proposed as a special resolution.
This means that for that Resolution to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the Resolution.
The Directors believe that the proposals set out in this Notice are in the best interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board other than, in the case of Resolution 3 to 8, the Director proposed for re-appointment in each Resolution, unanimously recommends that members vote in favour of each Resolution.
Resolution 1: Annual Report and Accounts for period to 9 December 2016 The purpose of this Resolution is to receive the Companys Accounts and the Reports of the Directors and Auditors for the period ended 9 December 2016.
Resolution 2: Remuneration Report The purpose of this Resolution is to approve the Remuneration Report for the period ended 9 December 2016.
This can be found on pages 22 to 30 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 3 to 7: Directors Biographical details of the Directors presenting themselves for election or re-election can be found on pages 12 and 13 of the Annual Report.
The Board confirms that it considers all the current Directors seeking appointment or re-appointment to be committed to the role.
Resolutions 8 and 9: Auditors The Company is required to appoint Auditors for each financial year of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are presented.
The purpose of these Resolutions is to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to agree the remuneration of the Auditors.
Resolution 10: Notice of general meetings Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Annual General Meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 14 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that, in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
74 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 SVG Capital plc Interim Report 2016
