Useful Information Glossary CDP A D CDP is an international environmental reporting and benchmarking organisation Acidulants Discontinued operations that holds and publishes the largest Ingredients such as citric acid that are An operation is classified as discontinued collection globally of self-reported climate used to add a sour taste to food and soft if it is a component of the Group that: change, water and forest-risk data from drinks and to act as a preservative.
i has been disposed of, or meets the companies and cities worldwide.
Through criteria to be classified as held for sale: CDP investors, companies and cities are Adjusted operating cash flow and ii represents a separate major line of better able to mitigate risk, capitalise on Adjusted cash flow from continuing business or geographic area of operations: opportunities and make investment operating activities excluding pensions, and iii will be disposed of as part of a decisions that drive action towards a more derivative financial instruments, tax, single co-ordinated plan to dispose of sustainable world.
CDPs 2015 climate interest and acquisitions less capital a separate major line of business or change programme was conducted on expenditure.
behalf of investors with US$95 trillion of assets under management at that time.
Adjusted operating profit PBITEA DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose Operating profit as defined separately, Low-calorie sugar that offers a superior, CLARIA adjusted for amortisation of acquired new taste experience.
intangible assets and net exceptional items.
Clean label Adjusted profit before tax PBTEA F A term used in the food and beverage Profit before tax as defined separately, Food Systems industry generally to refer to shorter or adjusted for amortisation of acquired The Tate & Lyle blending business which is simpler ingredient lists that appeal more intangible assets, net exceptional items part of SFI and which sources ingredients to some consumers than those containing and net retirement benefit interest.
and uses them to develop bespoke complex ingredients.
Interpretations combinations of ingredients for customers.
B Commodities BI Commodities include US ethanol and G Bulk Ingredients division.
Greenhouse gas GHG TM Any of the following: carbon dioxide CO, 2 Bio-PDO Constant currency methane CH4, nitrous oxide N2O, Multi-purpose monomer propanediol Changes in constant currency are hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, made from corn sugar as opposed to calculated by retranslating comparative perfluorocarbons PFCs, sulphur being made from a petrochemical source.
period results at current period hexafluoride SF.
6 Used in cosmetics, detergents, carpets exchange rates.
Continuing operations Operations of the Group excluding any discontinued operations as defined C separately.
Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 One metric tonne of carbon dioxide or an Co-products amount of any other greenhouse gas with Corn gluten feed, corn gluten meal and an equivalent global warming potential, corn oil.
calculated consistently with international carbon reporting practices.
Corn gluten feed The largest Tate & Lyle co-product, used by dairy and beef cattle markets.
162 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Useful Information | Glossary H P HFCS Primary capacity High fructose corn syrup, also called The processing capacity, at the first stage isoglucose in Europe.
of production, in which the agricultural raw material enters the production process.
Profit before tax PBT I Sales, less net operating expense, ICD less net finance expense and including Innovation and Commercial Development the Groups share of profit after tax of group, supporting our two business joint ventures.
PROMITOR Soluble Fibre A prebiotic soluble fibre.
L PromOat Beta Glucan Label friendly A soluble fibre made from wholegrain Denotes ingredients that, when listed on oats used to bring the health benefits product ingredient labels, may appeal of oat beta glucan to food and beverages.
more to some consumers who show a preference for ingredients in food products PUREFRUIT Monk Fruit Extract which they feel are more transparent, A zero-calorie sweetener made from authentic, simpler or easier to understand monk fruit.
than alternatives which may be perceived by some consumers as being artificial, chemical or in some way less authentic.
S SFI N Speciality Food Ingredients division.
Natural SODA-LO Salt Microspheres A natural description usually refers to A low salt ingredient made from salt.
a food ingredient that is present in nature and has been minimally processed.
SPLENDA Sucralose However, interpretations vary according A zero-calorie sweetener, the to the different legal and regulatory manufacturing process for which starts landscape in different countries.
O T Operating profit also referred to as profit before interest and tax PBIT TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener Sales less net operating expense.
A zero-calorie sweetener made from stevia.
U USDA US Department of Agriculture.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 163 Useful Information Definitions explanatory notes Non-reliance statement Basis of preparation Environmental statement This Annual Report has been prepared Unless stated otherwise, the Groups This Annual Report has been printed on solely to provide additional information financial statements are prepared in UPM Fine offset, a paper produced using to shareholders to assess the Groups accordance with International Financial wood fibre from fully sustainable forests strategy and the potential of that strategy Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted with Forest Stewardship Council FSC to succeed, and should not be relied upon by the EU.
All pulps used are elemental by any other party or for any other purpose.
chlorine free and the manufacturing Amortisation mill holds the ISO 14001 and the EMAS Cautionary statement Unless stated otherwise, the use of the accreditations for their environmental This Annual Report contains certain word amortisation on pages 1 to 81 in this management systems.
forward-looking statements with Annual Report relates to the amortisation respect to the financial condition, results, of intangible assets acquired through Printed in the UK by Pureprint using operations and businesses of Tate & Lyle business combinations.
vegetable inks and its Alcofree and PLC.
These statements and forecasts Pureprint environmental printing Continuing operations involve risk and uncertainty because technology.
Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral Unless stated otherwise, all comments in they relate to events and depend upon company, is registered to the Environmental this Annual Report refer to the continuing circumstances that may occur in the Management System Standard ISO 14001 operations adjusted to exclude exceptional future.
There are a number of factors and is FSC chain-of-custody certified.
items, amortisation of intangible assets that could cause actual results or acquired through business combinations If you have finished with this Annual Report developments to differ materially from and net retirement benefit interest.
and no longer wish to retain it, please pass those expressed or implied by these A reconciliation of reported and adjusted it on to other interested readers or dispose forward-looking statements and forecasts.
information is included in Note 4 of the of it in your recycled paper waste.
Tate & Lyle PLC consolidated financial statements.
The CO emissions from the production 2 Tate & Lyle PLC is a public limited Definitions and distribution of this Annual Report company listed on the London Stock In this Annual Report, Company means have been offset through the purchase Exchange and is registered in England and Tate & Lyle PLC: Tate & Lyle or Group of carbon credits in the Pureprint Gold Wales.
More information about Tate & Lyle means Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiaries.
The offsets are always in Gold can be found on the Companys website, Standard accredited projects and currently www.
come from the Basa Magogo project in Sources for footnote 3 on page 22 South Africa.
The first Gold Standard Murphy N, Norat T, Ferrari P, et al.
project of its kind in the world, this Dietary fibre intake and risks of innovative behaviour-change programme cancers of the colon and rectum in the teaches local communities in South Africa European prospective investigation to burn coal more efficiently, thereby into cancer and nutrition EPIC.
PLoS reducing carbon emissions and reducing One.
health risks by producing less smoke.
King fide, Mainous AG, 3rd, Lambourne CA.
Trends in dietary fiber intake in the United States, 1999-2008.
Energy density, energy intake and weight status in a large free-living sample of Chinese adults: Exploring the underlying roles of fat, protein, carbohydrate, and fiber and water intakes.
164 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Registered office Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Kingsway London WC2B 6AT Tel: 44 0 20 7257 2100 Fax: 44 0 20 7257 2200 Company number: 76535 www.
com Credits Photography David Hares Designed and produced by www.
